ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7612	I ask the MPs to take their seats so we can start working. I ask everyone to comply with the measures to protect the prescribed, the distance and the rest, because there are problems in the building itself about the crown. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 7th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which will usually begin with an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, the absence from today's session was justified by the MPs: Ljubica Miljanović, Jakov Galić, Predrag Kojović, Mirsad Kukić. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] They announced a delay: Edita Đapo, Saša Magazinović, Dragan Bogdanić. In addition, 31 MPs are present and we have a quorum for work and decision-making. As you know, the 7th emergency session has been convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure with one item of the agenda on the basis of the conclusion adopted at the 10th session of the House of Representatives since 07 July. At that time, we decided that the Bill on Budgets of the Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2020, the Proposer: The BiH Presidency, is considering the shortened procedure. I find that the 7th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, Proposer: Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1266/20 of 26.06.2020, the shortened procedure (first reading) We do not declare ourselves but immediately move to the agenda point. Ad. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, Proposer: Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1266/20 of 26.06.2020, shortened procedure (first reading) I don't think I need to read the proposal for a conclusion that we adopted at the last session two days ago. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion and established that a proposal was agreed with the Constitution. The Financial and Budget Committee has adopted the principles of the bill and now it is up to the debate. Before the debate of the Members of Parliament, I think we should hear about the document of appeal, Mr Bevanda, the Minister of Finance and Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7614	Good afternoon, everyone. I wish you were all well and healthy. The BiH presidency has mandated and tasked me to be a rapporteur on this agenda point and allow me to bring out the fact that this draft budget is in front of you. So, you know that the whole last year went into temporary funding and that just before the end of the year we adopted the Global Framework and adopted the budget for last year. He's in the gauges, which is presented in the Budget, 996 million. The Ministry of Finance and Treasury was quite... immediately after the adoption of the Global Framework started to draft the budget, we received a budget request from the BiH Presidency on 15.02. this year. We worked and completed the budget and the draft budget was delivered by the Ministry of Finance to the Council of Ministers on 17.03 this year. The Council of Ministers adopted the draft Budget Law on 24 March 2020. After the adoption of the budget, the Ministry of Finance submitted the draft budget to the Bureau on 31.03. The Bureau reached its conclusion on 06.04, where the Council of Ministers was tasked with reviewing the draft budget law and adapting it to the new-scale circumstances, the extraordinary circumstances that occurred in the meantime. The Bureau delivered that conclusion to the Ministry of Finance on 08.04.2020. From that moment on, the Ministry of Finance has gone into the technical design of the Budget, i.e. in the making of a completely new Budget, which included an analysis of all budgetary users, by handling certain principles that simply reduces everything that can be reduced, while respecting the provisions of the laws relating to the RAC, the Office for Audit, the Parliamentary Assembly, where what we have established from them we automatically fit into the Budget. We finished the job and delivered it to the Council of Ministers in 1706, 2020. At its 9th session, 18.06, the Council of Ministers established the draft budget and, quite normally, certain corrections were made at the session itself and what was within the framework of the law and all other adjustments made. After that, we had to make such a version of the Budget in three language variants, install all these remarks that were adopted and delivered to the Presidency in 23.06.2020. At the 68th extraordinary session, reflected in 26.06, the Bureau adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of Institutions and International Obligations and Amendments in relation to the draft submitted to the Presidency was an amendment relating to the reduction of capital expenditure by the Parliamentary Assembly for the amount of 754,000.00 marks. I note that the 2020 budget was prepared on the basis of the Global Fiscal Balance Framework, which was adopted, I repeat, in 27.12.2019, which set the framework of 996 thousand marks for BiH institutions, with the allocation of funding from the Single Account of the Authority of 780 million. In making the budget and in all our consultations, we made sure that we simply did a reduction wherever we could, and we made a perfectly normal exception for the security agencies, and we quite normally included what the law couldn't touch. So that's it, the budget we've been working on in a way that, since... the unpredictability of the situation, the items we've saved have simply been placed at the position of direct transfers and at the amount of the current reserve. In this budget there is no, what has been in all these years, the funds, the intervention 3 funds for neither the Presidency nor the leadership of the Council of Ministers, the analyst you all have, and that's that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7615	Thank you, Mr. Bevanda. The debate of the MPs of the people. Here you go. The word is Mr. jasmin Ermić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7616	I thank the chairman. After this explanation, the honourable minister and I would like to join the debate on the BiH institutions' proposal for 2020 with my comment, with a modest comment. As we heard from the minister, the situation caused by the COVID-19 crisis is uncertain, so the minister says, and unpredictable, and it was very complex to come up with a draft budget that would be measured and appropriate to this emerging situation. However, this Budget Proposal, in its explanation and summary of the reasoning, envisioned the situation, and this Budget envisions the decline of the gross domestic product by 3%. Of course, when we read the reasoning of the Budget and at the beginning when we look at the deterioration of macroeconomic indicators that we will agree that after the expected fall in VAT income, we can talk about this Budget being needed and having a restrictive character, that is logical, it is expected, but despite the reduction of certain items, when we see that the continuity of new employment continues, then we see that it is not quite so. For the sake of comparisons, the total VAT revenue in 2020 is expected in the amount of, that is, the projection, of 3,849,600,000.00. The execution of VAT revenue in 2019 was 4,022,400,000,00. When we compare VAT revenue to previous years, e.g. from the year 2013, five years ago, when the execution of VAT revenue was 3.102,900,000,00 then this announcement of an unforeseen situation and the very uncertain outcome of the implementation of the budget did not have to be so black and so unpredictable. I've already said it's forecasting the decline in gross domestic product by 3%, that's a projection, which means there's not going to be any growth in this year, so we're going back to the level of gross domestic product from last year, a reduction in over a million conversion marks. What I find unusual in view of the summary of reasons and the announced restrictions is new employment, so for this year the continuity of increasing employment in the public sector continues in a way that is planning at least 57 new employees and where they will be employed. It will be employed by the Office for Joint Affairs 30 persons, the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts 2 persons, the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office one person, the Centre for Informing Three persons, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH two persons, etc. It means 57 people. What does that mean? In numbers, that means we're going to, for example. only for new employment in the Joint Service in the Parliamentary Assembly, the Bureau and the Directorate for indirect taxation to single out 1,524,000,00 KM. Is there anything more important in this country than new employment? Apparently not. So I ask the question – What about the migrant crisis? Is there a migrant crisis in BiH? Where are the funds for the migrant crisis? Where's she projecting herself? Why didn't we look at this whole situation and put the minimum, necessary means of solving the damages of the migrant crisis as well? Of course, I welcome the recognition of economic damage in the economy and the devastation of the economy 4 because of the COVID-19 crisis, it is very commendable and these efforts are very commendable and that 42 million are not something, but it is a good message and should be directed in the right direction. Of course, I have an observation that there is no clear projection and there is no basis for how these funds will be spent. The Council of Ministers will handle it with a special decision, but I am pleased and I welcome that, that it is recognised and that such a message goes from the state level. But why not a message like that for the migrant crisis, because we know that in the UN-San canton, citizens have been faced for more than three years with the very serious consequences of the migrant crisis and that the budget of the UN-Sancanton can't handle it. First of all, we cannot finance the needs and costs for the work of the judicial authorities in the UN-Sancanton and we have informed the Council of Ministers and I am sorry and I am sad that the Council of Ministers did not recognise it. We've been writing about this problem for almost a year, and there's no hearing that compassion from the Council of Ministers, or the BiH Presidency on the problem. Why could it not meet the requirement of half a million converting marks, which would mean maintaining a legal order in the Un-San canton? We are in a situation now that we cannot finance all proceedings conducted by the judicial authorities in criminal proceedings against migrants or in criminal proceedings committed by migrants. Such procedures increased in number and by the end of 2019, a concrete act by the Ministry of Justice and the administration of the UN-Sancanton addressed the Ministry of Security, detailed the requirement that funds should be found, to finance the nutrition and stay of migrants in criminal and correctional institutions. Migration and asylum are in the direct jurisdiction of the BiH state, so the BiH state must subsidise all the procedures that have arisen because of the migrant crisis and the migrant situation, in this case it is not recognised and I am very disappointed about this and have not arrived in this short time to lobby the representatives' clubs, to support my amendment, which I propose to reduce the current reserve by 450,000.00 KM and to open a new item, a new item in the direct transfers from the single vault account, and that item would read – transfer to other levels of government, the Ministry of Justice and the administration of the Un-San canton to subsidise the costs of accommodation and to encourage prisoners in criminal and other costs arising from the processing of crimes committed by migrants or migrants. For these purposes, it takes 450,000.00 KM in this year to resolve any previous consequences of the migrant crisis. That is why I am also asking the Council of Ministers, the Commission for Finance and Budget and all the clubs in this distinguished House to look at this situation, to support this amendment and to correct this, this lack of budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7617	Thank you. Mr. Zuka Helez, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7618	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, Ministers of Finance, other representatives or members of the Council of Ministers, if there are you here and how many of you there are, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, we've been waiting a long time for this budget, we've spent half of it, and we haven't adopted it, so in six months we've been getting paid neatly, even though we haven't worked, not just us, but all those who are employed and who are on this budget. I don't think there's anything in the world that you can spend half your budget without adopting it and doing it retroactively, but here's someone figured out how not to do it without getting paid. 5 The other thing, very interesting, I also think there is no state in the world that almost half of us are foreseen in the budget, and half the debt to return, half of us, half of us abroad. Although I understand that the external debt structure owes the Federation entities, I don't know, about 500 and some million, the RS 250 million, is the state at least 9 million, the Brcko District 9 million, and now the Federation structure is back on cantons and so on. But anyway, we're even, so, for domestic purposes, we're almost even for domestic needs and external debt. What's noticeable in this budget is, and what's embarrassing in the end, there I've calculated about 80 people in the Presidency and state institutions are supposed to be employed this year. Well, my people in this country, over 50,000 people are out of work, the real sector is on their knees, craftsmanship, craftsmanship is closing down. Imagine the lucky ones who will get a job in state institutions, pay the good money, and I mean in this country no one suspects who these people are and who these people are close to and whose people they're going to get, those middlemen who get the job. I think this should be a shame to all those who project this. Another thing I'd like, if the Minister of Finance could explain to me, how you planned this. A few days ago I read that in the entity, Republika Srpska's decline in consumption is daily, so in one day, 4.4 million. If we know that from excise duties at the highest percentage, this, full VAT, and our budget is 80% charged with VAT or 780 million out of 996, you planned an increase of 30 million or 4%, those two don't go with each other at all. In what way? I think if this is the end of the year, it's going to be the other way around, it's going to be less by four and more than four percent that it's going to be reduced. You planned an increase of 30 million here, I'm not sure that's how it's going to be, and I'm asking you, will soldiers be able to receive salaries neatly because of our indifference? Here's to eliminating the MPs, I'd like to be honest with you that we feel a little bit that we don't, that it's not in the last quarter for our salaries, but those people who work hard, and they're on the budget, next to members of the Armed Forces, police bodies, etc. Which are state-level, OSA, SIPA, so I'm not sure they'll have it by the end of the pay. It is also noticeable that there are almost no ministries or state institutions, various agencies, that there is no increase in gross wages and fees, I really cannot understand. When the real sector is on its knees, we raise wages. Somewhere there's truth of two, three thousand, change, of the entire institution, but the increase, somewhere more, the State's Attorney's Office 1.1 million, VSTV 170 thousand. What I'm justifying is an increase for the border police because of a crisis with migrants, and it took a long time and that's why all the congratulations. Also, what has been planned for the Central Election Commission, i.e. holding elections, is also okay, not to be all black, but there are a lot of state institutions that have increased by wages and fees, here and I think the Agency for European Integration. Watch out, VSTV where he was here when they had his report, zero MPs voted for him, so they're doing bad work. The prosecution we all know is, everyone has a grudge against their work, also an increase in wages and fees. European integration we know where we are, also an increase in wages and fees. What is also noted in the budget is that I did not notice in the Ministry of Defence that an ANP, or Action National Programme, is being monitored. We were witnesses when ANP adopted, that there were statements here in the NATO Pact, this is a step of a major step towards the NATO Pact, in this Budget it was supposed to be planned for Armed Forces, for equipment, half a year ago, here it was planned to follow NATO standards and I believe that Minister Podžić has made a request, but it is not seen here from Budget that it is planned. Was ANP one scam, was ANP the only, one colorful lie for the public? From what you can see, Budget doesn't follow ANP, or monitor the equipment of the Armed Forces, and in NATO the pact of this kind of coffee we are nowhere near can we count on, over the next few years. I'm afraid that every year six of them will be like this, when it comes to the Armed Forces and that the NATO Pact will only remain a dream, which I am very, very sorry about. Finally, I ask you, Ministers of Finance, to respect these arguments when you make a proposal, especially this to take seriously 4% increase in indirect taxes or 30 million, because in practice it is quite the opposite, and simply, if we know it, we need to find some new sources, and not to deceive ourselves and say it ourselves – here we have planned so much, and here we do not, not so close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7619	Thank you. Mrs. Mira Pekić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7620	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome all present. Here, I will refer to this draft budget for 2020 and before I begin to present, it would be good if we had considered the draft budget by July and the implementation of the budget for 2019, in the implementation of the budget we could see all the budget items carried out in the last year, given that we had temporary funding until December 2019 and see what had been done since December when we adopted the budget for 2019 and when, until then, there was temporary funding. I think then this House would also have a full and slightly better, slightly better picture of the total cost and total implementation of the budget for 2019, on which it was based, probably, and this budget for 2020, and that was one of your entry items in the budget formation, in addition to the requirements of budget users. I mean, I know it's not a practice, but here's what we've been waiting for in July, so we could consider budget implementation by July. As far as this proposal is concerned, this proposal for a 2020 budget, I will refer to this budget as regards the expenditure of BiH institutions, this budget regarding the implementation of the external debt service, it is clear and it is as it is and cannot be affected. As far as the budget of the institutions, i.e. these expenditures of the BiH institutions, we see, there are three things in my opinion, one is that the budget was increased by 30 million compared to last year's, and 46 million from the budget that was two years ago. The budget framework of the famous 950 million has been breached. The second is an old budget charge, I don't know, for a private trip this year we take from VAT revenues 780 million, until back in a number of years it was 750 million, it's a budget framework, and I think it's something that can, that they can take income from VAT. And the third thing is to increase the budget reserve, I don't know the ministers, whether the budget reserve was ever 29 million and 880 in the expenditures of institutions. As for this, I will return to this first one, to this increase in the budget, I know that the Framework Budget document planned to increase the budget, but the situation with the COVID pandemic and with the overall situation in BiH's economy, I think it was enough that the budgetary framework of 950 or 960, and as far as last year, does not touch, to go with the budget at that same level. However, here, you thought that the framework should be fulfilled budgetally agreed in the Framework Budget Document and it is now 996 million, so close to a billion for BiH institutions, to finance institutions, I think it could have been different and could have been less. 7 As far as VAT revenues are concerned, here's the Directorate for indirect taxation has announced that in the first five months, the decline in income of 10%, of VAT. This means that we too should have, that someone who is financed directly from indirect taxes to take into account the VAT revenue drop and that we are counting on that revenue drop to be over by next year, by the end of this year, here's the quick end. The pandemic is still there, the downturn in economic activity is significant, and I believe that we'll have a good drop in income, now in percentages, here's maybe this 10% from, as much as the management said indirectly in the first five months. Therefore, the intervention of 30 million more than VAT in order to finance the joint institutions, in my opinion, has no justification and 30 million, as far as we have been affected by the VAT, we took directly to the entities, we took directly to the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, since we know that the incomes from the VAT first settle international obligations, and then the joint institutions, and then the entities and that, in my view, is not good. The third thing I'm going to talk about, it's this budget reserve. Budgetary reserve 29 million 880, the truth doesn't have this budget reserve that was made available to members of the presidency last year, it was 300,000, each member of the Bureau by 120,000 to share as a budget reserve, this year it's gone, but that's why we have 27 million 180 to repair economic damages. The 27 million, i.e. this budget reserve of 29 million 880 is larger than the budget of 63 budget users, in my view it is not logical, imagine a reserve in one budget is greater than 63 budget users, only eight budget users have a larger budget reserve, has a larger budget than the budget reserve. For me, it is the budget users who have employed people, who have certain programs, who know, and in the budget themselves that they are destined for the purpose of these funds they receive, and we planned the budget reserve much bigger than the budget users have, I said, so 67 budget users have a smaller budget than we have a budget reserve. Knowing that the budget reserve is being shared and these funds are being spent on financing emergency and emergency expenditure, financing the costs of international disputes, financing new BiH institutions, for grants to non-profit organisations. There is a set budget reserve and we cannot go past this Law on the financing of institutions, the Council of Ministers will decide how it is spent. We will probably, somewhere next year, have a report on budget reserve spending and then see if this purpose, which is intended to finance material damage, is fulfilled as the Council of Ministers intends. In my view, the budget reserve was supposed to be smaller, the budget was supposed to be smaller, and this part of the VAT funding was supposed to be smaller, to stay at that level of 750 million on which, which is to be submitted for the financing of BiH institutions. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7621	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7622	I would like to thank the chairman, and I would like to welcome you, the deputy and the deputy, colleagues and colleagues present in the O.R. Two days ago, when the session was held, you arranged for us to be humiliated to send the most legislative body of the BiH state to the hallways, to the offices, to wait for what the three men would agree, and then for those they run in this room to raise their hands. And aside from the fact that it was all past the Rules of Procedure, but it's really one great humiliation, at least I feel it, and 8 individually and a humiliation of this House. Today, it is obvious that the MPs of the same majority, who is on the remote control of those three men, do not have permission to speak. So you're told not to report to the budget. Imagine what a humiliation it is, banning people from speaking. Well, a speck of dignity if it existed, so one of you would answer, so compliment some part of the budget, find something there that's good, and say three sentences. No, you were told not to answer it, he said. Wait for the opposition to crack, vote yes, so let's move on. All that can be done, it wasn't once such a deal, but you find that way to do a little more dignity, not to humiliate yourself. I'm ashamed of you. They say, there's an idea that we're harassing you today, that we're humiliating you with different pauses, by stalling you, but I don't know what that all makes any sense anymore, because if you're not everyone understands what you've agreed to, then it's hard for us to convince you. By the way, this deal from the other day, I don't know if you've heard from them, you failed. The first meeting of the Council of Ministers was interrupted at the beginning, as no agenda was adopted, it never happened. Because of this, call the deal from the other day, which is why we've been humiliated here and waited three hours, so that's why you didn't make a deal, that's who this time was cheating on, that's a little less important. As far as the budget is concerned, every budget paints the politics of one government. Here's fellow Mehmedović, good for you. This budget sends two messages, that they will continue to work for themselves, and if they had to describe this Budget briefly, they would say hold the water until the masters leave. So he's not painting any politics, he's sending us a message that it's going to continue the way it's done so far, everyone for themselves, so whoever wins. And finally, I think it would be correct, at least to those of us who are discussing, we are reporting, we are interested, that the finance minister is going to raise questions about his colleague Zukan Helez, who is related to ANP. There have been many public discussions, some of us, which and how we support BiH's path to NATO, disqualify the majority in different ways, through our media and from us making opponents, which we really did not, persuad and deceive the public when it comes to the road to NATO and after that we adopt the first budget and the least we expect is to see through the budget that way to NATO. Maybe we don't know how to read it, maybe, and it's not my first time in my life to read the budget, but why don't you tell us what the activities are for this budget, and it's all about everything you've convinced us about ANP and NATO? I think we do, and the public deserves that answer. On the aside that I know that there's a huge dissatisfaction at the Ministry of Defense and aside that I don't understand why these people don't show their spine, call a press conference, so they're telling us what they're trying to do as information to the MPs, so we can talk on their behalf. I don't know who goes down there and why, but it's not a good situation with the Department of Defense in this budget, but let those MPs whose minister is in that position, don't let me say it, but you tell us what's going on with the ANP and what's going on with the road to NATO, and where can it be read from the Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7623	Wrong quote, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The correction of the wrong quote refers to counterpart Saša Magazinović. I don't think it's correct that you're humiliating us that we have an indication that we're not reporting for a debate on the budget, etc. When one of the MPs will apply for a debate, at which point and on which point, we make decisions, not anyone else. For this reason, here's the second time, and in the last session we had a situation that one of our fellow MPs acted similarly and humiliated the MPs, 9 here's primarily from the Club of Representatives of the SDA, and I don't think it's right and that it's at least not in line with the Code of Conduct of Representatives. And since I've already taken my word for it, let me also tell you about Budget. Of course, if this Budget were not the same as we would like, but this Budget is actually one of the minimum compromises that could be reached in order to come to an election in Mostar, to come to the local elections in BiH, because it is obvious that many obstacles are set before, here, the BiH institution, to come into the situation at all to organise local elections and that is the only motive I would support today. If we could split up, vote for one part of the Budget, and challenge the other, we would very much like to join such a combination, but it is impossible for a variety of reasons, fully respecting the argument of previous discussions between colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues who had a very meaningful discussion about the Budget. Therefore, I ask you to bear in mind that we are guarding one another's dignity, that we are not insulting the MPs, we are free people here, chosen by the citizens of BiH, and we cannot be forced to make us laugh or not to apply for the discussion. We certainly have total freedom in our discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7625	Saša Magazinović, wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7626	I thank the chairman. I am sorry that he did not replicate someone else instead of counterparts Mehmedović, and I greatly appreciate him, so I will refrain from commenting, I will just say the next thing. You, a colleague of Mehmedović, said that you did not receive an instruction that you should not speak. Since the instructions are given by Mr. Čović, I ask someone to inform him that the guidance did not reach Mr. Mehmedović, and that you received an instruction from Mr. Izetbegović, I do not know and you did not speak of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7627	The word is Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7628	I welcome all present, thank the chairman. I would agree with the discussions of my colleagues and colleagues so far and also pointed out that it is commendable to see that certain reductions have been in certain positions to provide funds for the sanity after the pandemic COVID. According to counterpart Emrić, is the question now and whether it is enough, because 42 million is certainly not enough, and also, as he mentioned, the issue of all issues and colleagues of Miro, the question of all issues will be actually the criteria on which and to whom these funds will be allocated. I also have to mention the employment, which is foreseen in this text, for the simple reason, the first thing we really don't know is what jobs are at which the employment of 30 people in BiH's joint institutions is envisaged, and this is again for the reason that my colleague Emrić spoke of the day before yesterday, that we simply can't get to, at least not publicly or via the internet, the content of the Council of Ministers' decisions which, therefore, concerning both here and, among other things, this employment. What I find strange about employment is that I am aware that there are, therefore, some budget users, indeed, an urgent need for new employment. Like, it's the border police, for example. but it is illogical for me and that there are no 10 envisaged employments for certain budget users that we have, for example, heard on the Budget and Finance Commission, that people are really struggling with, because of the lack of staff, which is primarily the Institute of Accreditation, where we have heard from the directors that there is simply no one to make up a financial report. And also the Board of Appeal, which may be less effective because of the lack of employees, and we know that efficiency is what is necessary in the procurement process. I believe that there could have been more reductions in this budget on certain items, and above all at travel costs. When we read, therefore, this argument, see page 146. So the total travel costs in 2020 are planned at 11.529.000,00 and are smaller than the budget 2019 by 5,600,000.00. These are scary numbers, huge numbers, and we see here at the time of the pandemic how beautifully it can communicate via the Internet. But what is even more important is that the highest cost for these purposes is the BiH Police Body Co-ordination Directorate, as they relate to the travel expenses of police officers who carry out the activities of the protection of VIP persons and objects. From this, therefore, we see that our party, our Club, in fact, our side and the Independent Block, were 100% right when we proposed a law on austerity measures at the time of the pandemic by the end of 2020 and where we proposed, meaning, among other things, a reduction in the number of those who enjoy this protection. I will also mention one item that also causes attention, on page 152, which is also agreed on other services. I have already been talking in this House about the abuses of an act contract and of one-off amounts spent on these purposes, because of the fact that the act contract is used simply for new employment, not for those purposes and for the reception of the definition of an act contract in the Law on Liaison. So, here it is intended only for contracts of part 3,706.000,00 KM, which I also consider to be an enormous amount and it would be interesting indeed to get information about why this money is being spent, who, according to this contract, is engaged, at what time and for what money, and probably it will be one of my and future parliamentary issues. Also, I think that here because of the pandemic of COVID and the consequences that this pandemic left on them, they are in some way still marginalized groups, such as national minorities. Rommie. Then the institutions of culture, which even without the pandemics barely live and whose status is not regulated at the state level. Also, people with disabilities. So these are all groups of people who suffer even more the consequences of this, these pandemics, and it seems to me that, it doesn't seem to me, but I think they are, very small funds allocated to these purposes. So we will also refer amendments to the existing proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7629	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Šarović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7630	Thank you, Chairman. Well, obviously, this budget for 2020, given the overall environment, is being brought in such a way that it probably requires that each of us has this feeling or the need for some major tolerance, and it will not be searched, as normally it would be, in some normal procedure with a normal amendment phase, so I may also, in view of such circumstances, point out only two or three things, some have already said, but I would like to stress that especially for us 11 coming from the Republika Srpska issue of increasing the budgetary framework is always a special issue, but I see that this time does not cause any reaction and some are wisely silent, so it is not the same in 2018 and 2020 that is clearly possible in 2020. Two years ago, when there was an attempt to increase the budget framework by just a few million, five, six million to even the salary to police officers, it was such a bullshit that many of which were heard nothing, but here now 30 million is not a big problem. Others also talked about it, and I think it's worth more discussion, the budget reserve issue of nearly 30 million KM, as far as I know the largest budget reserve in history, it usually ranged from 3 to 5 million KM. In these five and a half months, this budget reserve should be spent at this level, you know we broke a spear because of those three, four, five million that were shared by the Council of Ministers. I think that at the very least it is worth a clearer definition or I would say the conclusion of the House of Representatives on how to divide these funds for purposes, if that doesn't happen, this legislative provision will remain quite broad and we'll probably talk about it at the next sessions. But in the end, he would say one more concrete thing on page 25 under the regular number of the 15th budget of the BiH Veterinary Office, just one example of the institutions, there are more, where absolutely no consideration was taken of the European path of BiH, which was in some way completely neglected. This institution has been reduced, an important institution for, I would say, the European Bosnia and Herzegovina agenda has reduced the budget by 790 million KM, 15% of this institution. It's probably been shut up, no one's been paying attention, and it's about the funds that are intended for the purchase of materials and agreed services, and for those that, that's the usual formulation, it's about the purchase of funds and the arrangement of vaccinations, the necessary annual vaccinations of the BiH stock fund and bloody skin and brucellosis and swine fever, and some other diseases, there's no such means in entity budgets. Every year the funds were provided, people think it is so irresponsible and practical not only to have repercusions on BiH's European path, but also to the agriculture sector at all, or the food industry, because we will not be able to carry out anything in the region, or in the EU if this disease occurs in this year, to a greater extent, and we do not have the funds provided. This is, I think, for the first time, in how many years, I don't know how many years, to deprive these funds, and the funds needed for the list of livestock funds, means the zero list in BiH whose value is about a million and a half marks, which we've been tripping about for a few years, we're doing nothing, without a zero list, there's no meeting the European standards and exports from BiH meat and meat processing,... red meat, if they don't get in the budget of the institutions, means the state budget, they won't be provided in entities. There are some here who think about it, this just points out, I don't know if there's a willingness in the amendment phase to fix it, I think it's extremely important, if you don't think it doesn't matter, it probably won't be adopted, this would end. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7631	Thank you. Mrs. Nada Mladina, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7632	Thank you very much. The esteemed chairman, vice-president, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers. 12 Today we are discussing and on the agenda we have the Budget Proposal, the BiH budget, all discussions, which I respect as a person and a representative, say that we are unhappy that we are discussing the Budget Proposal in this way, how much our participation in the creation of the budget is, and we are particularly unhappy that we are in this situation, which has hit the whole world, and also BiH, even more than we want to talk about, to participate, to contribute. I am sure, given what I have been following as a citizen in the work of Mr Bevanda and the Ministry of Finance, that this budget and budget has been carefully created, but this time, of course, there have been many, many difficulties in this regard. When I talk about the Budget Proposal, at least as far as I know from my mandate in the City Council, then we are discussing the application of the amendments. I haven't heard any amendments before, I don't insist, of course, I don't have one, but to remind us, it might be nice if we had amendments to the proposal not to torture ourselves with bitterness, which I wear, which we couldn't have been more creative, we couldn't possibly help or at least ask, to explain to us why this isn't better and why this in this part or that part couldn't have been better. I believe that these discussions today will contribute to the future creation of the budget, hopefully in some happier times, we will be essential contributors to the creation of the budget. So I call you, modestly, that if we have amendments to submit them, and we discuss it, and if we don't, this is like me, for nothing, but at least we don't make it easier for ourselves, but we don't make it difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7633	Thank you. Mr. Borenović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7634	Thank you, Your Honor. So I see that only colleagues who come from opposition parties appear and that they all noticed certain things that, behold, show one kind of and hypocritical policy, which is being conducted in BiH's joint institutions, depending on whether the government or the opposition, is there no consistency. For four years, we had the same budgetary framework, nor for a mark more than it was from 2014 to 2018, 950 million KM, and then we all, especially my colleagues from Republika Srpska, had a political position, there was no need to increase the budgetary framework for the BiH budget, the joint institutions, because it was exclusively about the consumer budget, because essentially the development component is located in entities, probably in cantons, and suddenly the policy changed as the government changed. It is now possible to increase the budget by 30, 40 million converting marks, and it is not and it is now completely logical and detachable, even though it deviates from this strong policy that has been conducted in these institutions for several years. It is clear that the Ministry of Finance should meet what is a commitment that has been defined and the establishment of a budgetary framework by the Fiscal Council since 27.12.2019, the presidency returned the Budget to the BiH Council on 6 April. We've been waiting here... April, May, June, July, it's obvious that the Council of Ministers of Toys in the hands of political leaders like never before, is essentially through this Budget being traded, blackmailed, manipulated. These are some political games that were most depicted in the adoption of the most important act for an institution, and I believe that we are a serious institution no matter how large the budget is and what component of the budget it is. And it is quite clear that, at the end of these political games, we have come to the conclusion that we have a budget that will basically be taken or left behind, and the logical reactions that come from respected colleagues, but a few things that I find interesting. 13 We have seen in this budget finally acknowledge that, that certain investments are so much, institutions are so above others that it's so obvious, so we have a confession that one institution has increased the number of employees by more than 20%. Because when you say the Presidency hired 25 extra people, it seems it's not much, but it's 20% more than it had before this decision. Which means that some are in an extremely privileged position, power centers, and we're talking here about how and how to protect borders when it comes to the migrant crisis. Obviously, someone can do as much as they want and what they want, so they can hire more than 20% of the people they had, here, specifically in the BiH presidency for about ten years. Just two short or one question, and this part is about, when it comes to expenditures in the budget of BiH's joint institutions, we see that it's a bit of a confusion that we have some kind of relationship when it comes to judicial institutions, so it would be good to explain a little bit further. The BiH Court of Justice has reduced some 700,000 conversion marks, and the increase in the BiH Prosecutor's Office is some 450 thousand converting marks, especially at this time when we have very sensitive issues regarding the work of the judiciary, the matter is some sort of logical issue, whether it is punishable by one judicial institution, and rewards another, and we have a situation that is truly disastrous, especially in the case of the prosecution's work, although we have seen some harmonisations in terms of wages, monetary fees in this part of which we have the right to see. But what is, for me, perhaps a fact that is already present, I think, for a second year, perhaps a third year in the budget of the joint institutions of BiH, concerns the revenue from the requirement for the termination of citizenship, which is foreseen this year in the amount of 2.550,000.00 KM which, at a time when the borders are closed, when citizens do not have the opportunity to travel so much, to fluctuate, to base some kind of their new life in other countries, is again extremely high. Which shows a bitter fact that even in 2020, the dramatic departure of the population is a dramaticly high number of those who want to give up their country's citizenship, which is not cheap at all. I repeat, and this year it is at a level of 2.550,000 KM last year, although we know that the situation is much, much different than it was last year in terms of population fluctuations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7635	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7636	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome all my colleagues and those present in the O.R. By reading this Budget as someone who is not an economist, it seems to me that this is something that is realistic and which is feasible and of course it is difficult, I also understand the role of the finance minister to force budget users to cut their demands and it is a struggle whenever the budget is made. But I looked at the budget last year for every budget user and this budget that's scheduled for this year, and I saw that 75% of budget users have a reduced budget compared to the budget of the previous year, and I think that's good, so people have adapted to the financial situation this year and the conditions of the pandemic, and they've reduced the funds that they possibly planned to spend this year. I also saw some institutions that had a budget last year of 0 (zero) in this year have a significant budget and that is understandable, such as the State Penitentiary, which plans a budget of nearly 8 million this year, because it is in everyone's interest that 14 of them operate at the state level. Also, in order to hold elections in this position, a point of just over 4 million is foreseen. When it comes to border police and there's an increase of over 3 million, and we all know that we have a problem with border police personnel, that we have the vulnerability of borders, and we know that one of the key reasons why borders are a pornic lack of border police. And in my opinion, any employment in the state administration that leads to improvement and the preservation of the state, the achievement of its sovereignty, territorial integrity, protection and from crime, such as the Border Police and such as the State Prison, in my opinion, these increases are justified. However, I would like to say that some ministries headed by people whose leaders humiliated opposition members two days ago forced them to sit here for two hours, those ministries predicted significant savings, so one of these ministries is the Foreign Ministry. Their budget, and there is a representative of the SDA as minister, their budget is lower by 4 million, more than 4 million over the previous year. And the Department of Justice, at the head of the ministry, we all know that a HDZ representative is sitting, their budget is lower by 9.5 million. And these aren't negligible things, so real savings have been made. I think the budget of art is possible, I think the minister who heads the Ministry of Finance is a man who is experienced and who knows if this Budget is real, whether it's real, and these are the principles on which the real budget is based, means that you have a real income assessment and that you have a real cost assessment this year, and I will, of course, and our club will support this Budget. And just so we're not allowed to report, there are a lot of people here in this club who have a lot of years, who have a significant experience past these parliamentary benches, who have their own personal integrity, and I don't think anyone can order these people to discuss whether or not they're going to vote for any part of the agenda and please don't put us in the category of half-witted people, so don't put us in the category of people who don't have their integrity and their opinions. I'm asking my colleagues not to do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7637	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7638	Except in one part, the distinguished MPs, uh, I don't think you're right or you've explained it to the end, it's true that in the ministries already, most of the ministries are reduced items, but if you look closely at these purchases of equipment and materials, these are some other things, but read there when wages and fees are in question 95% increased. Only in that part I want to correct you, that's right, look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7639	Wrong quote, Mr. jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7640	We also fully provide information on the budget as they are, so the BiH Justice Ministry is reduced by 9.439.000,00 or 45% due to the start of the 15 Institute's work on the execution of criminal sanctions, detention and other BiH measures. So that's why there's so much reduction at the BiH Justice Ministry, because it's starting with the work of a new budget user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7641	Miss Sanja Vulić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7642	Thank you, Chairman. So when it comes to this debate and today, I simply have to point out that it is a shame for the state and for the complete system that we have parliamentarians with many years of experience and sitting here without being able to manage to get a draft budget by 15 December 2019 and to be adopted greatly. Of course, it's a shame that we're in a temporary financing system, but it's also a shame to treat each other illegally, because for God's sake, you're the ones who keep respecting how we should be collegiate, parliamentary and cultural. In addition to that, I mean, I'm nobody, but nobody can shut up, nor forbid me to say what I mean and express the attitudes behind which I stand. I absolutely support professional discussions, such as the discussion of Mrs. Mire Pekić, I liked this discussion or the belongings of Mrs. Pekić..., party membership, it is now on the other side, but from it tells experience and knowledge and such discussion absolutely support, and not only should I report just to get some publicity. What makes me very happy, and what pisses me off here on the right hand side of a certain colleague is the fact that there is no money for NATO, and I am particularly happy with the fact that those of you who have been trying to lie here or to be cultural, deceive the public while you have been making constant claims here that Dodik has signed the path for NATO, Dodik, which is so much against NATO. So I'm really glad that there's no money, because that money, or not planning those funds, confirms the fact and everything that the leader, who the SNSD is very proud of, and which bothers you so much in your previous discussions, was. Next, when we talk about the humiliation of this House. It is true that this House is humiliated. And how is he humiliated? He's been humiliated since the moment we let the ignorant in the CEC blackmail us. I'll remind you gentlemen, with a lot of parliamentary experience, in 2012, we had a temporary financing system -- did the elections take place in October? Yes, gentlemen, they are. So you're a good part accomplice to everything that's going on, the choice of people who don't have experience doing what they're supposed to do, so far away from that, it's one part of the SNSD, it's one part of the SNSD, it's one part of the HDZ, we're all a little guilty, but you're also the gentlemen who are flirting on decisions, laws, which are of particular importance to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7643	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I don't have any more law proposals in my first reading. Before the 30-minute break. 16 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please take your seats, let's get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate has been concluded, we are making a statement first on the conclusions, as the Rules of Procedure has said. So, the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mire Pekić, which reads: The Ministry of Finance and Treasury is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a monthly report to the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the expenditure and purpose of the budget reserve intended to repair the economic damage of 27.180.000,00. We vote. 36 present - 22 for, 4 against, 10 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7645	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7646	What do you say to Mr. Borenović?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7647	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7648	To vote again. Okay, we're voting again, the second time, for Mrs. Pekić's proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7649	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7650	dobor, here at the request of Mr. Zvizdić, once again we vote on Mrs. Mire Pekić's conclusion, follow the vote, so there is no failure. There's a general, there's an entity majority -- 23 for, 3 against, 10 abstentions. The conclusion proposed by the MP, Mrs Mira Pekić, was adopted. We vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Aida Baručija, Jasmin Ermić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Damir Arnaut, which reads: The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with putting all previously adopted decisions in 2020 on new employment out of force, and that any new employment is done only in case it is necessary for the functioning of an institution that submits a reasoned and supported request to the BiH Council of Ministers. 17 votes. 18 for, 14 against, 4 abstentions -- there's a general majority, there's no entity majority. There's no other circle, and we'll come forward later. No more conclusions. Point 1. – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, Proposer: Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1266/20 of 26.06.2020, a brief procedure (first reading) We declare ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in the first reading of the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH. 19 for, 13 against, 4 abstentions -- there's a general majority, there's no entity majority. There's no second circle, no second circle later. There's no consent from the College around the second round. [[Common discussion]] Please, I can't hear you, if anyone wants to hear from you, let them report, and we'll give him our word, but we haven't finished the vote, and there's no debate, only if you want to vote again. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7652	Borenović is looking for.... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7653	Okay. The vote again, please, here's the vote again, the second time. Watch your vote. The result is different, but the final result is the same, so there is a general majority, there is no entity majority – 22, versus 12, abstention 2. The general majority has, the entity majority doesn't. We don't have a decision on today. So I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly did not adopt the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7654	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-09-0.u7655	Of course, it will be agreed upon for the second round between the members of the College, and we will plead at the next session. 18 I'm closing the seventh emergency session. Thank you. Session completed at 13:32 p.m.
