ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7674	Ladies and gentlemen, here we go. I ask MPs and guests to take their seats so we can begin our work. I'm opening the 11th session of the House of Representatives, which begins with an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I welcome all present MPs and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] From today's session, they justified the absence of MP Ljubica Miljanović, Mirsad Kukić, Jakov Galić, Nenad Nešić, Nenad Stevandić, Zukan Helez and Safet Softić. We have a competent 35 MPs, which means there's a quorum that we can work and we can decide. We're moving on to the agenda. When it comes to changes to the agenda today's session, I shall mention the following. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The item was removed from the agenda because the commission did not deliver an opinion on the bill. Point 10. The Joint Commission's report to both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina because the Joint Commission has not submitted the report. Point 23. Consideration of the Parliamentary Initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Justice, prepare a new text of the Law on the resolution of the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations." The promoter withdrew the request and therefore the agenda point is removed. On the agenda, we added points: 19th, you have this in a new draft agenda, a proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH and Tačka 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission for the Harmonisation of the text of the Law on Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, which is proposed by the BiH Presidency. Dopunjana 6 has been completed. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, proposals: Dženan Đonlagić, Zlatan Begić, Vlatko Glavaš and Enver Bijedić, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative for the second time. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7675	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Chairman, I welcome... College... colleagues and present in the hall. So I have one proposal, and I bring it up because I'm... to certain facts, and it refers to point 3. So I suggest that point 3 be removed, or I suggest to Mr... The Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, to withdraw this point as a proposal from the agenda, i.e. the appointment of a minister of order, security at the BiH Council, and the reasons for this are next. So, I know that the procedure that was implemented and prescribed was carried out as implemented, and that Mr. Tegeltija had data and using that data... the decision he sent us, therefore, as a proposal for appointment. I'm not sure if he knew, but I have some indication that he might have known, but I've learned since yesterday that the criminal proceedings against a possible Minister in 2018 have been stopped. It was stopped... by having the Hague prosecutor running the case, talking about criminal proceedings against the Hrvat. So this criminal procedure was stopped in 2018, so the gentleman I'm talking about, who was proposed to be the minister, is the order of the... Terzić, therefore, was suspended because there was insufficient evidence of an investigation against him. However, the prosecutor in the case was obliged to report all the damage to the proceedings and, as far as I know, 51. She didn't do it and somewhere in those times... So after that, you were damaged and had no opportunity to complain about the prosecution's decision. And imagine now, so I have information that the 17th of July prosecutor who took the case has already sent word to the people in that case that they can complain after two years, so they have an eight-day deadline. That means the criminal proceedings aren't stopped. So, I don't know if you have, as far as I've seen it, you don't have it in what I'm saying, the information that's been delivered to you and the checks, and I'm asking you to withdraw that item of the agenda, and what I'm saying you can check in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and these people are now starting to get it, so let me know that I can appeal within 8 days of the decision then, so two years ago, in June 2018. That's another story now, the prosecution will get, therefore, a question as to why, for two years, it's been waiting for all of this, why it hasn't been possible for the injured in this procedure, so by process, by the provisions of the law, so... and then the prosecutor. If you don't believe me, I invite you to withdraw the agenda today, to put it on the next session, to check what I'm talking about, and I have the data, so some have already received, not everyone, and that, of course, these people will complain, which means that the procedure is ongoing. Therefore, I don't know how valid the checks that have been made and which you have at your disposal are. So once again I ask that Point 3 be removed from the agenda, or that the Proposer... procedure by the Rules of Procedure withdraw this point from the agenda and check what I have stated as... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7676	Thank you. No more reports. If I understand Mr. Lovrinović, it is an invitation from the chairman to withdraw the agenda. It's the only way we can change the agenda, and if there's no such request, the agenda stays the way it is. There's no demands, there's a misstatement. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7677	So, I didn't say this... I'm asking Mr. President of the Council of Ministers for him to plead. So, I'm not saying this by heart, I can personally show him a notice that... from the D.A., so if you don't believe me, but I'm calling him, so I'm an agent, I'm inviting him to check out what I said. In my opinion, the criminal proceedings are under way, and he hasn't been stopped, he did, therefore, with the actions of the inappropriate prosecution.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7678	What's wrong with Mr. Lovrinović's quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7679	The false allegation is, therefore, that I am asking the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7680	We understood and called, he didn't answer the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7681	and to remove the agenda from the agenda. I'm asking the chairman to speak. First of all, it would be up to him to tell us about the candidate...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7682	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear what Mr. Lovrinović has suggested. There is a business opportunity for the chairman to withdraw the agenda, and since he did not do so, the agenda was established by the Extended College on which Mr Lovrinović was also on. And that's why we're pleading on this agenda, actually, the agenda has been adopted. We're working on the agenda, Mr. Lovrinović. You've got the wrong quote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7683	Mr. Chairman, yesterday I didn't know this fact at the Expansive College. So, I got it yesterday afternoon and I got it, one notice I got from the procedure I got it on my cell phone. So, I didn't know her yesterday and I couldn't say it at the College, but today I know her, and it's okay that this Parliament knows that, and you, first of all, and the gentleman who suggested it. So I call him again to tell him if he knows this fact, whether he found it in the papers or what he thinks of it. I'm calling him as chairman, as proposer of the agenda. So, I'm not sure it's okay like this... such a fact, I'm not sure. It's a war crime. It's a procedure. Today, the excavation of the recently found remains begins. I beg you, therefore, at least it's okay to make a statement to say – okay, he won't withdraw the agenda point, let him say if he knew about this fact. I didn't know her yesterday, so I'm correcting you, I didn't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7684	Okay, I understand that you learned this after the Expansive College and that you are calling for the third time chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Tegeltija. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7685	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, Members of Parliament and fellow Council of Ministers. Well, it's an unusual situation for me, and I want to say what I said the first time I proposed ministers to this House of Representatives. Every time I get a proposal from authorized political parties, which are part of the majority, I will refer to the competent institutions for verification, which is the Central Election Commission and SIPA. Then I said, I repeat again, I will never propose any candidate for whom one of these two institutions says there is a problem with his biography on any matter, especially war crimes. You are witnessing that the candidate, so far only one candidate, is not proposed from the Serbian people's order precisely because of the situation, that is, the position of one of these institutions. All related to the appointment of a new Security Minister has passed the regular procedure in the Central Election Commission and the SIPA. Their answers are in your cases which I have delivered to the Commission to prepare the election of ministers and their opinions. I cannot do otherwise unless there is a different position of institutions which are legally competent to verify whether candidates meet the conditions to be proposed for that function. If one of the institutions you're talking here says that someone doesn't meet or subsequent checks determine that the incorrect data I'm always ready to initiate the recall procedure of such a person, if based on some important data and similar to that established by the competent institutions, this, foreordain, withdraws the proposal for his appointment. At this point neither I as chairman of the Council, nor the Council of Ministers, no one, has any fact from these two institutions that there is any obstacle that I could not suggest... the Minister of Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7686	Thank you. Therefore, it is not the chairman who proposed this item of the agenda to the point, I find that at today's session of the House we will be working on the agenda established by the College in the extended composition of the House of Representatives, which is as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 10th session, 7th, 8th and 9th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2nd. Comments on questions received; 3. Confirmation of appointment of Minister of Security of the Council of Ministers of BiH, material number: 01-34-11450/20, of 15.07.20120; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and prosecutorial institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-596/20, since 31.03.2020. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing: MPs Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 19.06.2019. (first reading); 6. Proposed legislation to amend and supplement Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents: MEPs Dženan Đonlagić, Zlatan Begić, Vlatko Glavaš and Enver Bijedić, issue: 01-02-l-316/20, of 05.02.2020, with the Constitutional Commission Opinion; 5 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-679/20, of 09.06.2020. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1344/20, of 02.07.20120. (first reading); 9. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Nermin Nikšić's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads: The request of MP Nermin Nikšić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-l-1383/20, of 08.07.20120; 10. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Temporary Measures in the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and other bodies during the natural or other disasters on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (emergency procedure), issue: 01,02-02-1- 865/20, of 08.07.20120; 11. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Bill on Amendments of the Law on Salaries and Receipts in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina: MEPs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Predrag Kojović, a shortened procedure (legal in second reading), No: 01-02-l-840/19, of 08.07.20119; 12. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative: Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Damir Arnaut, which reads:, "On the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we submit a parliamentary initiative requiring the Council of Ministers to urgently, and within 15 days at the latest, submit to the parliamentary procedure amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act", number : 01-50-1 896/20, of 08.07.20120; 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Legal protection in public procurement procedures before the BiH Office for the Review of Appeals", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH Institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2256/19, of 26.12.2019; 14. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject:,, "The safety of products and integration into the EU market", applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-71/20, of 07.01.2020; 15. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject:, "Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 0l/4-16-10-885/20, of 05.05.2020; 16. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-l-1290/20, dated 30.06.2020; 17. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue : 01,02-16-l-1291/20, dated 30.06.2020; 18. The election of a member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, in accordance with Article 4 (1) point n) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the material of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, number: 01-50-18-546/20, of 25.02.2020 and 04.03.2020; 19. Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1477/20, of 20.07.20120; 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission on the text of the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 6 international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, proposed by the BiH Presidency; 21. Review of the parliamentary initiative: Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut, Predrag Kojović and Aida Baručija, which reads as follows:,, On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we submit a parliamentary initiative suggesting to the competent state and entity institutions, i.e. the institutions of Distikta Brčka (governments and legislative authorities), to prepare and adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on litigation in such a way as to integrate provisions on the release from the cost of the procedure, which would include the amount recognised by the parties to the lawyer's fee in the event of the party representing public defence and in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, issue: 01-50-1-12222/20, dated 19.06.2020; 22. A review of the SDA MP's initiative reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, we submit a parliamentary initiative to which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 35. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within 90 days the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police (the Official Messenger of BiH). 3/03, 21/03 and 8/13) in a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Judicial Police are set up as the basic organisational unit of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina", number: 01-50-l-1229/20, dated 22.06.2020; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija on the mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-21-l-1310/20, of 01.07.20120; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Marrakesh of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to facilitate access to published works by blind, visually impaired and persons who for other reasons cannot be used in the press, No: 01,02-21-l-1345/20, of 02.07.20120; 25. Approval of ratification of the Amended Convention of the European Satellite Communications Organisation (EUTLSAT), number: 01,02-21-l-1347/20, of 02.07.20120; 26. Granting consent for ratification of Additional Protocol No. 6th on trade in services under the Agreement amending and joining the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006).) number: 01,02-21-l-1355/20, of 03.07.20120. We move on to the agenda as it is adopted. Point one. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 10th session, 7th, 8th and 9th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH You've got the records. I'm asking if there's any objections, if everything's done right. I'm opening a discussion on the records from these four sessions. Niko one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Point two, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7689	I welcome everyone. I'll try to comment on two answers. From the Police Body Coordination Directorate, I received a response regarding events in front of the building when journalists were not allowed to enter the building and to monitor the work of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. The problem was solved that day. I've asked the press a question that I'm happy with, but I want to use it to say a few sentences. I think the relationship to the media in this building is inadequate and rarely boastful. These aren't people who are eager for any of us but people who do their job for a salary that's much less than ours and that's why they come here. Very often there are no conditions for their work and I will not be wasting my time right now but there will be opportunities to talk about the role of our people from the PRES and security and external security, etc., but what I want to say is that their legitimate anxiety and dissatisfaction sometimes breaks over us who are not guilty because people are justly unhappy with their position and treatment in this building. So I ask the College, if you don't want us to discuss it like this at the sessions right now, to try to find a way to treat them with respect and to provide conditions adequate for their work tasks. I got another answer from the Police Body Coordination Directorate. I'll extend it further to the following questions, but I didn't know that the Police Body Coordination Directorate was involved in ensuring sporting events, in this case football matches, and I didn't know that in addition to the Zenica representative matches, this agency provides only Sarajevo clubs, so I'm going to ask, uh, what's unclear about this whole thing. I have a lot of questions, but, look, I just wanted to comment on it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7690	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7691	Thank you, Chairman. 8 I have not yet received any, no reaction from the College to the parliamentary initiative that I have put forward on this particular subject which Mr Magazinović spoke about. So for years now, I've been pointing to a completely unwarranted treatment of the media in this building, which is completely different from the world's practice. So, you in Washington have journalists who have access to the White House as far away as possible from the President of the United States, and here journalists are completely limited to the opportunities for their work. I filed an initiative with that relationship a few months ago. After a number of attempts to raise a reaction from MPs to the former secretary, I, uh, filed a parliamentary initiative asking, therefore, the authorities to... a solution. The College did not put this parliamentary initiative on the agenda of any session of the House. From what I understand, this is being solved through some bureaucratic civil proceedings, probably of which there will probably be nothing in the end. It is not clear to me why certain individuals in this building who work in both homes are talking about elected MPs, therefore, afraid of the media. We had a situation where Mr. Čović, as the media reported, sought an internal investigation because the media published, uh, data on his separate life, etc. And worst of all, the College of Secretaries has approved this internal investigation. So, the relationship to the media by the collegiates of both homes, by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, I am really talking about the old secretary, because my relationship with the new secretary, whom I met yesterday, will be based on how the media is treated. And I hope he takes a much more positive approach to this matter. So I ask that the College of the House, as soon as possible, put my initiative on the agenda of this House as soon as possible so that journalists in this building can find a way to stay, and at least during working hours, that practice is everywhere in the world, not that they are allowed into the state building only when there is a session here, and as far as we know, given how often you call them, it is not so often. Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing point two. Point three, Ad. 3. Confirmation of appointment of Minister of Security of the Council of Ministers of BiH, material number: 01-34-11450/20, dated 15.07.20120.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7692	I would like to remind you that the procedure for confirming the appointment of members of the Council of Ministers of BiH has been regulated by Article 152. Rules of Procedure. Also Article V point 4. The BiH Constitution is prescribed to appoint the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zoran Tegeltija, delivered the decision on 15 July 2020 to appoint the Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers, together with a signed statement of candidates, whose form and content was prescribed by the Central Election Commission of BiH, which contained the data referred to in Article 10 (1) point (a), indent 1 to 6 of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Official confirmation by the Central Election Commission of BiH pursuant to Article 10c) of the Council of Ministers Act confirming that the proposed candidate for minister meets all the necessary conditions for appointment. The final report on the truthfulness of the information... was drawn up by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, and in connection with the appointment process. 9 The Committee for the Preparation of the Council of Ministers held a meeting, discussed all available information regarding the appointment of the Minister for Security in the Council of Ministers, and gave the House of Representatives a recommendation to confirm Selma Cikotić's appointment as Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Rule 152(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I call on the Chair of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegelti to read the Decision appointing the Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7693	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, fellow members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media. Let me remind you that following Mr Radončić's resignation as Minister of Security, the Party of Democratic Action has proposed a new candidate for the post. The proposal I received was forwarded to the Central Election Commission and to the Agency for Investigation and Protection for the verification of the proposed candidate's data. After the checks carried out by these two institutions and their response that there are no obstacles to the appointment, I have taken the decision to appoint Selma Cikotić as Minister of Security. I submitted a proposal for this Decision to the Commission of the House of Representatives on 15th of this year. You have received all information about Mr Cikotić in addition to the materials forwarded to the Commission and all those materials which are also sent to the competent institutions for verification. But for the sake of the public, I only want a few sentences short on Mr Cikotić, who was born in 1964 in Montenegro, where he graduated from primary school, military high school in Belgrade and ends there. He Cikotić his education in Sarajevo at the Faculty of Political Sciences, where he mastered and doctored. He performed several military functions. Mr. Cikotić was already a member of the Council of Ministers in the 2006-2010 election cycle but then the term of office lasted from 2007 to 2012 and then Mr. Cikotić was minister at the Council of Ministers, he was minister of defence. Mr. Cikotić lives in Sarajevo, the father of two children is also married. President-in-Office, members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the basis of Article 10, and on behalf of Article 5. The law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, I propose to confirm the decision to appoint a minister in the Council of BiH Ministers for Security Selmo Cikotić. Gentlemen, I suggest you consider this Decision and confirm it. Thank you very much. And in the end, let me just say that Mr. Ambassador Lovrinović delivered me an act. If he comes in official form protocold, I will refer him to the competent institutions that I have provided the previous data as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7694	Thank you, Chairman. I'm opening the debate and I'm informing you that we're limiting the debate to five minutes because of the total measures we're taking in Sally, you've seen, and I hope that all 10 of them will stick to us, not just these five minutes, but the prescribed measures due to the increased pandemic of the coronary virus. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers has not accepted that we should at least postpone this very unpleasant situation by withdrawing our proposal for a while, but there is still a chance. So, I'm calling him back, he's getting protocold, I only gave him before his performance to see, he's getting a protocold photocopy of this paper that I was talking about. But I will remind him, therefore, that, at the request of a colleague from the U.S.A. when you proposed the ministers for, say, human rights, you remember, citing certain arguments, only fellow instructions, so you gave up, to be appointed minister, so you went with another proposal, so you followed the demands, here, fellow parliamentary majority. I think this is a thick, thicker reason and a demand from HDZ that this kind of appointment not be carried out, which I was already talking about. The colleagues from the SDA, therefore, alone through the media and through not only me, we have sent certain messages, so we are not against the rights of colleagues from the SDA as parliamentary majority to propose according to the procedure agreed, therefore, candidates for members of the Council of Ministers. Let them indicate who we were against, for example, against Mr. Podžić, and he was, therefore, in the war. So we weren't against any SDA proposal that we had no reason to be against. Right now, we really have reason to be against it. Unfortunately, therefore, Mr. Cikotić, who is proposed as a member of the Council of Ministers, was at certain times related to certain events, I do not prejudge anything, I do not prejudge anything, but it is a known fact, in Bugojn the missing Hrvat, until today we have not found them, they were killed, they were in the camp. The gentleman acted highly, and especially irritated us with his performances in the media and on the commission where he therefore pleaded as if he were protecting the Hrvat and their rights and the people. Well, here, today maybe he can even show it practically, let him come out here as a candidate and say where the dead Hrvat are buried and who killed them, we'll vote for him. Here, we're not talking about him as a person and his function. It is clear that he held a very high position in the BiH Army's command chain. It's clear he had to know about this, of course he knows about this, he can't convince us he doesn't know about this. I've already told you how it happened, so the procedure that was conducted in this case and how Mrs. Terzić, therefore the prosecutor, did and kicked Mr. Cikotić out of the case, but we'll ask the prosecution later. The act I delivered to you shows, therefore, after two years that only people have been given the right to complain about such a decision by the prosecution, which is a circus, it's just a circus, so it's a story for little children. So, colleagues from the SDA, you're such a strong party, you're such a powerful party, you're the strongest party in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you've got so many people at your disposal. So we have nothing personal against Mr. CikotiCikotić but we bond and we can't get past it, it's about events in the war, it's a war crime. So we don't prejudge any of his roles but there was, she existed, he had to know... he was a commander. We ask you to propose a different name, ask the Chairman of the Council, ask again to withdraw this proposal and to check these allegations that I have given him until the next session. Here, he doesn't have to give up the proposal today, but let him at least check out what we delivered to him today. It doesn't make sense, so it doesn't make sense because of those people who have been looking for it in Bugojn for years, it doesn't make sense because of our good relationships. So, Mr. Tegeltija, you agreed not to appoint the Minister of Human Rights to, let's say, justifiable reasons for your colleagues from the SDA. Is this not justifiable for its reasons? Are these not 11 justifiable reasons, if these are not just reasons, then what is it? So do we need to, as you think, work together with the new minister from the Council of Ministers of the Croatian Peoples. ...that we'll look at it that way. There's no way we're going to support anything that Mr... there's no way, at least this is what I'm saying. Why would that... well we do, we have an attitude on his role in the war. What we need is why, what he needs in the first place, why this has now appeared now that the prosecution is sending these notices to the damaged in the process, why it has now appeared. It may be a gentleman, it would never have been known if he hadn't been proposed for the Council of Ministers' composition. Gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, so once again, I know it's awkward, I know it's not the usual situation, that you're making a decision right now, you have an act, you're going to get it and protocold, so withdraw the proposal right now, delay your statement today about it. I suggest to my colleagues in the U.S. that they propose a person, have as many as they want, we won't be against it. We were not against Mr. Zvizdić when he was president of the Council of Ministers in his last term, we are not against any of their proposals for which we have no reason. We have fat reasons here - mistrust. Is that what we need? Is that what the Council of Ministers needs? Is that what we need tomorrow in Parliament's work here and in the House of Peoples? I call upon you to be reasonable, so that you may respect us as men, to honor us as advocates, as a club. Mr. Tegeltija, therefore, once again, I am finishing Mr. Chairman, I urge you to respect these reasons, to request today at least a delay on the plea, so here's a check as you yourself have said. Maybe you didn't know, you can tell from the date that it was sent to one of the damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7696	Thank you. Mr. Dženan Đonlagić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7697	I thank the chairman. I want to correct the false allegations by MP Lovrinović when he mentioned the name of the current defence minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Podžić. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's current defence minister at the BiH Council of Ministers was a proposal from the Democratic Front as part of a parliamentary majority in the BiH Council of Ministers, not a proposal from the SDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7698	Thank you. Mr. Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7699	Thank you, Chairman. Honored co-chairmen, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. We have come today in a position to confirm the appointment of the Minister of Security and thus to complete the full composition of the Council of Ministers and to enable its work. It is particularly important today to confirm the appointment of the Minister of Security with regard to the present migrant crisis in the past few years, which is indeed one of the biggest problems that is pressing Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 12 Hercegovina, all of its institutions. And, of course, the very position of the Minister of Security today that we are talking about is most viewed in the direction of solving these naked problems. Every morning when you open any written or viewing electronic media, you will see that hundreds of migrants were stopped at the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina that were to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the UN-San canton were found, the other day I read, 600 migrants, so the police of the UN-San canton 450 brought in, and we do not already have one longer period of time for the Minister of Security to coordinate all these activities, i.e. to give some plans and that together with the Council of Ministers, entities, canton governments, municipalities, in the best possible way to resolve this issue. Given that we had a security minister who recently resigned, who really did his job very well, the Party of Democratic Action took special care and took note of the choice of candidates for the minister of security. We have offered the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Mr Tegeltija the best staff solution the Party of Democratic Action has for the portfolio at this time. And with full capacity and all arguments we stand behind that candidacy. You've seen through this brief biography presented by the chairman of the Council of Ministers about what kind of person it is. I'll say briefly about the person who, wherever she was stationed, did his job responsibly, in accordance with the law, regulations, and that's why we suggested such a staff solution. I am a little surprised by the nervous, nervous appearance of my colleague Lovrinović since you are a colleague of Lovrinović as I am a member of the highest legislative body of this country that works exclusively in accordance with the law and procedures. And all this has to be done when it comes to checking Mr. Selma Cikotić's candidate's checks has been done. You did yesterday, and today you confirmed it, and you also supported the agenda for us to approach today's confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Security. This paper that you've shared in the best and most observable way of talking that there's actually no mistake or any violation of any right towards anyone in Bugojn, this information that stands by the Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I will Pročiteću only the first public quote – We would like to inform you that the prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office Slavica Terzić has adopted the Order to suspend the investigation against the suspect Selme Cikotić of 14/06/2018 for the crime of war crimes against the civilian population, etc. Prosecutor Terzić suspended the investigation because she found that there is no basis for doubt that suspect Selmo Cikotić committed a crime, or that the suspect did not violate the rules of international law, or that there is evidence of any other crime. This is just a notice that someone has a right to appeal. And this is one, with all due respect, unserious act that you want today to take down this item of the agenda or challenge today's confirmation, or the appointment of Mr Selme Cikotić as Minister of Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7700	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7701	Thank you, Chairman. This has nothing to do with the Minister of Security but what Mr. Osmanović said, I quote it – every day we read the news that a hundred migrants have been stopped to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is simply not true, such news is rare. In any case, such 13 news is a complete order of almost permanent statements by the BiH Border Police that they have stopped hundreds of migrants from entering Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the BiH Border Police, I am talking about, whether, according to the Ministry of Security, at least according to media reports and their own boasting is much more concerned with protecting the borders of the Republic of Croatia than with protecting the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7702	Wrong quote, Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7703	Well, I'll correct two false allegations of fellow Osmanović... said. Namely, the attitude of fellow Lovrinović is not nervous, I did not take him as nervous, but he is emotional, because what we are talking about and what we are talking about here and what is the topic of our dispute is something that causes deep emotions and 30 years after these events. And emotion is there. The other guilty allegation that I need to correct is, therefore, the paper or act of the prosecution official that we've, here, got on the bench is not unserious. It is unserious to say that this is an unserious act, this is an official act of the prosecution, and I will continue reading it where my colleague Osmanović stopped. – Since you have not been informed as damaged by Prosecutor Slavica Terzić of the suspension of the investigation, I am informing you of the above and also instructing you that you have the right to appeal to the Office of the Prosecutor General of BiH within 8 days of the receipt of this notice. So there's obviously something here. I don't know exactly, but I assume that two years ago and one or two months ago when she suspended the investigation, she was obliged to inform the damaged that she had suspended the investigation because it was her obligation. No, she put the object in the drawer. And it's very interesting that after this, what's happening in the last 10 days since the appointment talks, from finding the remains of Rostov to including the Prosecution and this letter that gives the right, it seems to me to the fifty damaged in this case that within eight days, that deadline will expire somewhere at the end of the next week from the reception, they should appeal to this Decision which, once again, which is very interesting, two years and something stood in the prosecutor's drawer, and it shouldn't have stood in that drawer.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7704	Wrong quote, Mr. Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7705	What my colleague Damir Arnaut is, I don't know why he volunteered for a misquote, I was just quoting, I'm going to quote some headlines from the media. You had a headline the other day that says that the state border police stopped hundreds of migrants from entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the second sign was that 600 migrants were found in the UN-San canton, the third sign you can find that there was a fight between migrants, the fourth sign you can find that a dead body was found somewhere on the lake, uh, it's supposed to be a migrant, etc. My HDZ colleague, I understand if he has an emotional exposure to his colleague, Lovrinović. We all passed here in '92. '95. A year and we can all be so emotional about the problems and the difficult times we've encountered. And I've lost a lot of things in the war, and I've been banished from my Teslić, but we have to stick to it, and that's the only way we can stick to court judgments and decisions. I didn't say this was an unserious act, but I said you can't stop 14 appointments based on this. This is just what you'd say, an indication of what you can do to someone else. And I think the prosecution respected everything the associations and associations had and delivered to them there, everything. I don't see any reason why the D.A. and the D.A. didn't accept everything that was delivered to them. Is there going to be something new I don't know. And I can say here on behalf of the future minister, Minister Selmo Cikotić, if anything, God Bog, it would never be proved to be a person who would hide behind something, never a person who would run away. He's always ready to prove his innocence to any institution. So don't bother the team. If the prosecution and the court prove anything, we are convinced that there is none of it, our minister will, in full capacity, be held accountable for what the court has to pass when it comes to the verdict. Everything else is, here's the guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7706	Wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7707	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Osmanović, I have pointed out the fact, I don't know why you're avoiding that, uh, Zoran Galić and the Border Police, who are under way, pay much more attention to protecting the borders of the Republic of Croatia, so that migrants don't go there, but protect the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina from entering here. And that's a huge problem I've pointed out. I don't understand why you're defending Mr. Galić. I mean, it's obvious from the media, look at these headlines as much as it's prevented to enter Croatia, and as much as it's prevented to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you'll see a huge disparity. So Mr. Galić puts primary protection on the protection of the internal borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, according to the Republic of Croatia. And that's a fact. Thank you. Nebojša RADMANOVIĆž Wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7708	I would like to correct the false allegations of fellow Osmanović, who said he was one of the important arguments for the emergency election of the minister of the migrant crisis. So, this is an incorrect allegation because for the SDA, the migrant crisis is not a priority issue, because if it were two days ago at the House of Peoples, they would not have supported the Budget in which it was previously, in which the funds for migrants were previously deleted, which we adopted here on Emrić's proposal. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that for the SDA, the migrant crisis is a key argument for the emergency election of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7709	Wrong quote, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7710	Mr. Osmanović, we were not talking about the competences of the proposal you sent for a member of the Council of Ministers, so we were saying what we needed at all. So why encourage her, you're not going to tell me that you don't have another person to suggest at all because he's the most competent but he's got a challenge, he's got a challenge. Mr. Adil where 15 thousand Hrvat are 15 Bugs, where they were killed who were registered in the Red Cross. The gentleman was in command, therefore, in that part of the BiH Army, he must know... There's been a procedure, he was in the process, the prosecution made a mistake for sure, but here we are not going to talk about the prosecution right now. You want to discuss today what we know about everything, that the last correspondence between Mr Cikotić and Hadžihasanović in Zenica was precisely about this killed one. After that, there are no more written leads on them. You're telling me he didn't know. So, I'm not going in at all, if he's honest, as you claim, let him come out here and say where they are, where they must have known, he had to know, but we're not the D.A.'s office. And what I'm saying emotionally let me speak emotionally, what I'm supposed to laugh about, is whether or not I should be happy and happy about it. Give me a second suggestion, I'm not going into competence,...the best in the world, but we have a problem. We have a problem, gentlemen. We have a problem. Mr. Tegeltija withdraw the proposal today, withdraw the proposal, for less reasons than the SDA you withdrew the proposal, your proposal... for less reasons. We're not saying anything, I'm not saying Mr. Cikotić is guilty, but he's guilty of knowing, he's not, so he knows now, he needs to know. If he can't get out here to say he doesn't know what happened in Bugojn. As commander... where are the people, where are the people, where are 15 thousand people. How can you talk like that, I'm emotional. Here, I'll laugh, now I'm happy for it, it's, so you suggest it protects itself from this position, to protect itself from further processes. The process isn't complete, so this is proof that the process isn't complete, that he's still alive. And we'll see what the D.A.'s gonna end up answering all of this, and when people file complaints, we'll see if they come back... and we've got data, so we've got all kinds of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7711	The word is from Mrs. Borjana Krišto, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7712	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. Here, I would like to refer to what my colleague Lovrinović said in the framework of the agenda and, of course, through this debate. Of course, by respecting all the things we heard here, here, from distinguished colleague Adil Osmanović, who spoke of the justification for the appointment of the Minister of Security. I would also say, that we have a proposal today, in some way a recommendation, from the Committee on Elections of the Council of Ministers in the House of Representatives, and that it is necessary that we do and appoint the Minister of Security, etc., and here, through these discussions, no one questioned some kind of credibility, perhaps also a résumé in terms of education and so on, but we are also talking about certain things which are facts which are painful and which, in my view, are also an obstacle to the appointment of a minister to such one, meaning in the person of Mr Selme Cikotić on such a responsible duty. I will also remember what Mr. Lovrinović was saying, then in the summer of '93. year, so 15 thousand Hrvat were expelled from the region of Bugojna, of which 16.5 were according to the '91 census. A year. And of that there were many captives and soldiers, and civilians who went through terrible nudity and injuries in camps in Bugojn. According to the latest 2013 census, only about 5,767 Hrvat live in Bugojn, which means that not only are the Hrvat from Bugojna expelled, but they are clear when compared these data, these two lists before, that they are not allowed to return either after the war. Also, as we discuss here, we mentioned today, meaning the appointment of Mr Cikotić as Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers of BiH, members of the family of missing and murdered Hrvat of Bugojno awaited 16 exhumations of post-mortem remains discovered in the construction work at Rostovo's site, and otherwise the Bugojan Hrvat have warned for 27 years that they have actually disappeared and been killed the last time and seen in the site when it comes to the situation of Bugojno, and in a special way those 19 who are wanted and whose graves are not yet known. Of course, what else to say in this situation when you bring out one of these facts you can't help but be emotional. Not only in this situation but also in all other situations, I'm talking about it the same way, you can't say that in this case the appointment of Mr. Cikotić at the position of the Minister of Security is actually a touchdown of salt on the early Hrvat. All those whose wounds are still open, and at least those whose graves are unknown. I would add one more fact that the appointment of such persons to the responsibilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are linked to persecution, torture or any committing of any crime, should not be the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina if it wants to be a legal state in which the rule of law should rule, and especially a country that should be the home of three constituent peoples and others living in it. So everybody's a little curious if we don't at least understand what we're talking about. I therefore state here before this House that because of the things and facts that we have presented today, individually and as members of the HDZ Club, it is unacceptable for us to appoint Mr Selma Cikotić to be responsible for such a responsibility in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7713	Thank you. The word has Branislav Borenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7714	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow Members. Well, here's an unusual situation that shows what relations are really like in the ruling coalition in the Council of Ministers of BiH and in the ruling coalition here in the BiH Parliament. And what I want to say and... help, here, and fellow Lovrinović, we may have spent too much time, and as things stand, if everyone remains in their positions, which have already been known for more than a month, Mr. Cikotić will not be confirmed today as Minister of Security at the Council of Ministers of BiH, because most of the entity will not be enough for Mr. Cikotić to be Minister. We heard the HDZ's stances, a HDZ counterpart who are one of the three key political parties that make up power at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we heard another coalition partner, SNSD for more than a month... not to support Mr Cikotić. To be clear, we, as two opposition parties coming from Republika Srpska, both the SDS and the PDP, will not support Mr Cikotić for the reason he is well-known, for the same reason we neither supported the Council of Ministers nor the Council of Ministers. And the very fact where this country is today, that we don't have a Budget either, that this same Council of Ministers is doing almost nothing, that almost legal solutions and there is no right decision to support neither the Council of Ministers nor the Chairman of the Council of Ministers or any new member of that same Council of Ministers. So it is quite clear from all this that we have heard today and that we are listening for more than a month that Mr. Cikotić will not be confirmed. I've been coming to this session thinking about whether or not some new Mr. Cikotić will come. Given that it is the same man, I know him well, it looks the same, the same Selmo Cikotić, the same one who had experienced fierce criticism 30 days ago from his coalition partners from the Council of Ministers, from the parliamentary majority here and you from the HDZ and colleagues from the SNSD, I quote a Serb member of the presidency, the SNSD leader, clearly said that he would not support Mr Cikotić because he is a co-author in some chamber in which poor 17 connots the Serbian people and estimates as aggressor. You're listed today by who knows how many times your reasons are. And here, obviously, if you remain in your positions, I repeat once again if you remain in your positions, our position you know that Mr Cikotić will not be confirmed today when the vote is held, because if nothing else will be enough for most of the MPs coming from Republika Srpska. I want to make that clear. We'll wait, of course, for the vote, for every miracle possible, especially in this House, so we'll see if anyone has changed their attitude but the facts are indisputable, which are clear already, here's how long, I've listed some of them. I reiterated once again the correct attitude that comes from us as opposition parties. The vote will show everything in this time when everything... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7715	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7716	Oh, I'm giving up, I'm just gonna cause extra replicas and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7717	Wrong quote, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7718	Mr. Borenović, so I don't know what criticism you were thinking, at which session we were talking about Mr. Cikotić except for this day where, perhaps in public, we were just making a point, so we're not going to support it and we're asking it to be appreciated. And we haven't even talked today about how Mrs. Krišto spoke, about competences, about schooling, and I don't even know what everything is about when we talk about expertise and... And something else to Mr. Adilović or already who would like to shut me up here, means I'm calling on SIPA to just look at lately, here's a dozen days that I've made public as president of the club that I won't support, uh, Mr. Cikotić's candidacy as a member of the Council of Ministers for known reasons, that I'm not wasting my time again, to see what he is, therefore,... acting towards me as a representative on Facebook pages, to see threats, to see hatred, what is done. So you want me to shut up here, you want me to shut up, shut up about what's real. That's a fact, gentlemen, that's a fact. Someone for a crime has to answer, for every crime, I'm talking about a specific crime. Unfortunately, the gentleman who suggested it was about these events in one way or another, command responsibility is also a responsibility. We're not saying anything, but come on, we don't need a new story to go back, as Mr. Osmanović said, back to the '90s. We don't need it, we don't need it, we don't need it. And it was in structures in '97. And the 8th when the party Hrvat were killed, the returnees... We don't know that either. But we'll see, therefore, how the Minister of Security will give us answers to these events,...we don't know what happened until today. Everything we need to keep quiet, all in the Hrvat of Central Bosnia. No Travnik like Mostar can be placed, therefore, by the people who have persecuted us and banished us, anything can be against the Hrvat from Central Bosnia. So give the people we live down there, we've experienced all sorts of things. I'm not getting into that, Mr. Osmanović, probably you are, but we've been through a lot, too. Do you want me to tell you here, to... hold on to what's happened. I like you, and I can testify to you what it was, I can testify to you, but we don't need that. We invite you to reason, so delay today's session. Check this out, find a speck of reason. We don't go in, we apologize to Mr. Cikotić if he thinks we're insulting him at personal level, but he was acting on certain duties in the war, he was responsible and must say... Once again I invite him out and let him say where... we'll raise our hands for him, let him say what happened. He can't say he didn't, he doesn't know. How will he not know, how he will not know, so who knows, who knows. I invite you, therefore, Mr. Tegeltija once again, for the third time I invite you to come out, ask to delay the plea...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7719	Time, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7720	And put it in the next session, so check out what I'm talking about. Subject is alive, subject is alive, criminal proceedings are still pending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7721	I remind the MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure and the agenda. Please, when you report for the wrong assumption that you're talking about it, and no, you have a third discussion. braniti Borenović, guilty of allegation. Here you go, Mr. Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7722	Thank you. Here, since I was called by my colleague Lovrinović, I think I just said what is true, what confirms here and today's session and certain allegations that have been said so many times in the last, here, 30, 35 days, that you have repeated them many times today, they have been made available to the public. And I only looked at the reality in some way, I said what is logically the position of the PDP and colleagues from the Joint Club with the SDS that we will behave in the vote and say what I think is clear to everyone, that there are very, very clear reasons in the HDZ, in the ruling coalition that makes the government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we also heard in the SNSD why not to support Mr Cikotić as Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers in BiH. I don't see why it's you in some way, why you felt called when I didn't have that intention at all, but I wanted it in some way to help, to go without having to go, needlessly actually going into some kind of a number of debates when we know the outcome of the vote that it will be such that Mr. Cikotić won't be confirmed, because as far as I know he won't get, he won't get most of it, i.e. A sufficient number of qualified votes coming from Republika Srpska. If we won't support it, then there aren't five votes to choose from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7723	Wrong quote, Mrs. Sanja Vulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7724	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to ask my PDP colleague not to speak on behalf of the SNSD, as far as I know he's not in the SNSD Parliament Club and we don't need a spokesman, we have him, we have a head of 19 clubs, and we all thank Bog alive and well here. I also want to say that when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers, it is very clear who he criticises and who he is. And please, uh, colleagues not to refer any initiatives to the chairman of the Council of Ministers because we all know in what way the chairman of the Council of Ministers proposes certain staff solutions. When it comes to the position of the SNSD, we are very clear here, we have never conditioned anyone, nor have we done it in the way that we had the opportunity to experience when we had a proposal for our staff solutions. How we vote you'll see. And what's the fact is that we're always a correct coalition partner. Also when we talk about the work of the Council of Ministers, I would like certain ministers to show up here to at least see what they look like, like Mrs. Turković. And then, when fellow Borenović criticises certain ministers, he can say it specifically and he has the courage to say it – I think he is doing it badly, not giving us all the same class, because I think that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of the SNSD is doing a very good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7725	Wrong quote, Brane Borenović, second time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7726	I fully agree with you distinguished colleagues, and you should call on all members of the Council of Ministers to be at Parliament's session, you have chosen. You gave them confidence, you voted in favour of the Council of Ministers and Mrs. Turković. You have every right and more than I, who voted against, to have the minister or minister here in the BiH Parliament's room. And on that side you have my full support and you will always have for such things that are completely logical, justified, normal, necessary. And don't have a dilemma. Here, I support you, ensure that your foreign minister, Mrs. Turković, finally comes to this hall, you have chosen her, you have the full right, you have my support that not only she, but every member of the Council of Ministers is here hearing what is happening in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7727	Wrong quote, Mrs. Sanja Vulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7728	I just want to say that I'm glad, here, that, at least on some point, colleagues from the opposition who come from Republika Srpska and we, uh, agree. And I will only repeat that when it comes to this matter, mine, yours, etc., I consider it my own, when I tell my SNSD ministers, those that the SNSD has proposed as well as the Council of Ministers, and all the other ministers who come as a proposal and our coalition partners respect but I also expect responsibility and work from them as well as from ministers who come from the SNSD order.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7729	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 20 In accordance with Article 152. We immediately declare our rules of procedure, i.e. to confirm the appointment of Minister of Security at the Council of Ministers, Mr Selme Cikotić. Please prepare to vote. Present 32 – for 17, against 12.3 abstentions... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7733	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7734	that I will knowingly carry out my entrusted duty,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7735	that I will knowingly carry out my entrusted duty,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7736	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7737	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7738	and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 21
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7739	and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7740	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7741	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7742	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7743	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7744	Congratulations, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and prosecutorial institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-596/20, since 31.03.2020. (second reading) The bill was adopted in its first reading at the 10th session of the House in the second round of voting after the College of the House as a commission failed to reach agreement. The Financial and Budget Committee submitted a report. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing: MPs Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 19.06.2019. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7747	Thank you, Chairman. I'm primarily grateful that you read all this history because it's really long, so you saved me the time, I don't need to go back to these procedural things, anyway thank you. As far as the substance itself is concerned, this is the proposal for a law of the previous term which has been proposed by all parties in the present term, and supported, apart from HDZ, so SNSD, and SDS, and PDP, and SDA and all parties, I purposely state these since some of them were subsequently against it. This is the Law made by these broad groups of MPs in close co-operation with the OSC Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Transparency International. The current system of countering conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not exist, does not exist as a system and itself constitutes a conflict of interest, because of the conflict of interest of officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the current so-called. Call it the system is decided by just the ones who are least invited to decide, which are elected and appointed officials. So the conflict of interest of elected and appointed officials is decided by their colleagues. It's a conflict of interest itself, and it's something like that, so there's no place in the law. Take a look at the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. For years, the institution that has gained the highest trust in all citizens' polls is their Agency for determining conflicts of interest composed of independent experts, armed with extremely strong mechanisms and for investigating and establishing sanctions. And it is the most trusted institution in the Republic of Croatia. All this law proposes is that we establish such a system in Bosnia and Herzegovina instead of this one we have. Because the system that we have, or a system that we do not have, is such that for two, three years, this alleged commission to decide on a conflict of interest envisioned by the existing law does not sit because sometimes there is no quorum, but mostly because it is completely indisposed to political will, but completely under the influence of the main policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 23 July. And when you have a situation to raise the issue of conflict between HDZ leaders who are at the same time the HNS leader and decide on donations of more than 10,000 marks per year, two members of the HDZ Commission do not come and have no quorum. And so on for a year, and so on. And then no wonder HDZ didn't support this proposal. But this does not mean that anyone else in this House should not support this proposal, especially because all these parties, I say again and the SNSD supported, not only supported but were signatories of the bill. In the last term, Mr. Prodanović was one of the signatories. The SDA also supported and therefore surprised me by their one vote on this issue and I hope there will be no such mistakes again. In any case, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a much stronger law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also necessary to set an example for other levels of government and is necessary on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the European Union. Whoever does not support this bill, and now I say again – that we are Magazinović, Emrić and I have taken over because the three of us are the only signatories left in this assembly, but this is without a doubt, and you have it in materials, without a doubt one multilateral, multi-entity effort that was made in close cooperation, I repeat, with the OSC Mission and Transparency International, which has installed the best European standards and which, therefore, is my vague position as HDZ, is less or less closely monitoring the system as the Republic of Croatia has and as assessed as extremely successful, one of the most successful institutes to combat conflicts of interest in the European Union. And that really doesn't require any dilemma that this should be supported. We have a positive opinion of the CEC, we have a positive opinion of the APIK, and the only person who's been here all along is the Ministry of Justice under the control of the HDZ both in the past and in the present session. And that's why we had all these conclusions that we were looking for the Ministry of Justice's opinion, and then the Ministry of Justice didn't deliver an opinion in the past year, and then this conclusion from January, which I knew at that time would not be realised, that the Ministry of Justice was making a new draft, etc., etc. And all this time we've been wasting our time, and all this time we have this situation where we can't take a step towards the European Union and where we still have our membership application, I end up chairing, still standing, among other things, and because we don't have an effective mechanism to combat conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7748	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7749	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, a few references to what Mr. Arnaut was saying. We have the law, whether it's good or not, here's obviously not. There are various opinions that need to be changed and that's fine. So our attitude at the end of this story will know and he will be known to you. Our Mr. Arnaut's clear attitudes will never be because he doesn't want to hear them, nor does he want to respect them. And his, uh, not just this time, who doesn't support this Law, and so, you know how scared we are of what you're talking about – who doesn't support, here you will see our position at the end, but not because you are threatening us here – who doesn't support it will be... But I'd like something concrete about the law now. So we've already discussed this law at Parliament and there's what I've been saying, and I've based my thoughts on this law, the bill on the opinions of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, 24 as Mr Arnaut said. And there you can see, therefore, in a few things that the proposed provisions do not know how independent is the operational and operational independence of this commission that is proposed and a number of other things, for example. that it also needs to be seen how to bring all of this into line with the provisions of the basic organisational regulation of the Administration Act. And I'm not saying, so a few of the things that were given in the bill's proposal, I'm just interested in who I'm going to refer to, so who's going to make some kind of change until the second reading between these two readings. Whether this group of MPs or what to do, our proposal was to make it the Council of Ministers, but obviously here goes the way it goes. Well, if colleagues will remain in this text, I suggest that they take into account this debate, which is already being held at Parliament, and let's say my discussion, then the views of the Council of Ministers, and the views of the Ministry of Justice, so, therefore, articles, articles themselves, the text of the Law, the example of Article 5 which speaks of bans,... bans on lawyers and public officials, and we know well that we have abolished "white bread" for a year. So you need to see what's going on with each other. So you can't take away the rights that people once had, now you suddenly forbid them to hire and communicate with the authorities when they no longer have any obligation to them. Or, for example, Article 11 refers to this as “white bread, ” and then Article 14 that speaks of relatives. So the question is, you can be, you can be your son, you can be your daughter, you're in a fight with her, you're not talking at all, so how is it you're supposed to give information, maybe not communicate with that family at all? I think we should see these things and make it as clear and transparent as possible. In addition, let's say a matter of working experience or professional experience for members of the committee, it seems to me that it's too big, so it's as if they're going to be judges of the Constitutional Court. So let's say, uh, why don't the parliamentarians still be part of that committee, that's my thinking. So here are a few things that I want to contribute that colleagues who will continue to be proposing this text until the second reading try to appreciate, I said already, a debate, the opinion of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and these remarks that I have made, so that until the second reading, which is usually not happening, so it offers some kind of new text or something better text, that we don't have to change it. And so, at the end of this story, you'll hear and see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7750	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7751	Thank you, Chairman. So, the debate is in principle on, what Mr. Lovrinović was talking about were the amendments that come in the second reading in the amendment phase, so even before the competent commission we are in a regular procedure. Therefore, this is simply not the time or place to talk about the potential amendments that you can, especially as a member of the Constitutional Commission, by the end of the debate on the committee responsible. Uh, what I'm talking about is that we here have continuous efforts that have been going on for two years by HDZ to stop the legislative procedure through all these procedures, and it's asking the Ministry of Justice's opinion, then the minister of justice doesn't deliver for a year, and stop the legislative procedure in January, give the minister of justice to do a new draft law, he doesn't answer that, and then he keeps returning us to this debate. Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a new conflict law of 25 interests in which the socuba of interest will not be decided by elected and appointed officials because it is those who are in conflict of interest. And that's something without which we can't even get candidate status for the European Union among other things. So these are fundamental things that concern the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the economy, and on the issue of the rule of law, and on the issues of all these other topics that are being imposed on us as a country that submitted an application for candidate status more than four years ago, and this is exactly what Mr. Čović delivered that application. And you all know very well that we can't take the next steps without these system solutions. And now I say again -- if you have a dilemma, this is something that already exists in the Republic of Croatia, and universally from the level of Brussels is assessed as one of the best mechanisms to fight conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7752	Wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7753	Mr. Arnaut, so this text... last term and in this term is already several times ahead of us and persistently proposing, so they stick to the text that was made by who knows when. That's why I'm saying it's possible to do, so I'm not defending, and some changes to the text until the second reading, not just the amendment, because there's going to be a lot of things that... the amendment and I don't think it should be like that. And when you say that HDZ stops something, stalls, obstructs, HDZ is an autonomous party, a democratic party, comes out in the elections, gets some results in accordance with the Constitution, behaves its duties, represents the views and views of the voters who chose it. Therefore, we will not represent your views, that you think you should support what you think is right, that is your problem, and we have our views on every issue and also on the issue of conflict of interest, and on any other issues. As in the previous matter of appointment, the minister had his position and on this we, too, primarily represent those who chose us here, not what you would have wanted. So, don't call it obstruction and braking, but it's our attitude. We express it in the way we can, we are a party that functions in this House in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7754	Thank you. Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7755	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. To say a few words on behalf of the SNSD Club regarding a concrete bill, namely ours, as we have already heard, we all know, one of our obligations in moving towards the European Union, means the adoption of some new law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So, I would, we're aware of all of this, we're aware that, like this law is the existing law, and everyone else, according to the circumstances and the corresponding needs, we need to evaluate, to be better, especially where the pax showed that we have certain illogicalities or 26 dysfunctions. So I would ask really all my colleagues, and in particular, because my colleague Arnaut has never been able to set up any measures and criteria on a continuous basis, and then to classify whether or not you ate it, again directly – Mr Arnaut you are not the measure that can determine and qualify such things, perhaps you can do something in your close environment but, please, it is really inappropriate for you to fully respect who is on which side in terms of movements on the European path. So it is clear that we may need to improve the law or the new law but I really oppose practice, if something is shown and proven in the Republic of Croatia or a razor of any other member of the European Union, or any other country, that we are taking over and corporateing it. ...has happened too many times to take over without some more detailed analysis of the legal solution, we insert into our legal and political system, and then we get something that's a dysfunctional hybrid. I don't think we need that kind of stuff, and yet I repeat, we need to improve. As far as the SNSD Club is concerned, I must say that we are expressing several serious reserves according to the current proposal. We're not sure if we're gonna make it, uh, amendment at all to fix this. And, here, I will take the opportunity to deny you Mr Arnaut, the SNSD has never given support to this Law, although it is one of the MPs we do not think is at all problematic if any of our MPs participate in any work material, but as a party, we always take a common position and behave accordingly. So we never agreed to this proposal. We express a serious reserve when it comes to the formation of any new, new institution, institution or anything else. And how in this proposal is even imagined, and... I think the Ministry of Justice also has its own reserve, that... even as this Commission has been set up to decide on a conflict of interest is not clear at all what this is. If this is new, the formation of a new administrative organization of any type I express immediately the position of the SNSD Club... generally that we will not accept such a thing. The next thing I know, I'm a skeptic and a question, and the Central Election Commission has also turned our attention to that part, to the submission of financial reports. How, I mean if he's even enforceable, whether they're in collegiate with other laws, above all the Electoral Law, etc. To recap, so we have a serious grudge against the text offered, I don't know if we're going to succeed, whether it's even possible to use it in amendment, but to advocate a new legal or improvement of existing solutions anyway. So, here's so much, and I have to say that we're also interested, there was somewhere, uh, and perhaps as a party we'll be going to the right levels with our proposal if this proposal is not adopted in the final, I say, now this time in the Parliamentary Assembly and not in the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7756	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents: MEPs Dženan Đonlagić, Zlatan Begić, Vlatko Glavaš and Enver Bijedić, issue: 01-02-l-316/20, of 05.02.2020, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission 27 At the 10th session of the House, no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was adopted, and the Commission was tasked with drawing up a new opinion. The Constitutional Commission has again delivered a negative opinion. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Here you go. There are no reports, Mr. Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7758	I thank the chairman. Well, here, in short, so just to look back on one, two sentences of the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Unfortunately, there are members of the Constitutional Legal Commission who, on several occasions, really use their membership in the Constitutional Commission in a way that they vote from the point of view of really politics. Therefore, there is no dilemma in amending and supplementing the laws adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and for those amending and supplementing the laws for which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is responsible, and there is certainly a constitutional basis for the adoption of amendments and additions to any law that it has previously passed and which, in fact, has adopted the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Unfortunately, there are those members of the Constitutional Commission who, on several occasions, repeats it from the session to the session, I say politically, so this cannot be legally founded that there is no constitutional basis and cannot in any way be justified from the aspect of the Constitution, law and profession, what is evident is this vote which has elements of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7759	Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7760	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I just pointed out what Mr. Đonlagić was saying a year and a half ago when the House committees were formed, when I warned at least some parts of the ruling coalition that they were making a huge strategic mistake by giving HDZ two seats in the Constitutional Legal Commission. I warned this was gonna happen and this is happening all the time. And we've had a situation now for a year and a half that any law of the minority that goes into the ordinary procedure before the Constitutional Commission cannot get a positive opinion. And this absurd, which Mr. Đonlagić spoke of, cannot even get a positive opinion of compliance with the BiH Constitution, this one, exclusively for this reason I warned about a year and a half ago. And worst of all, what happened then was that the SDA gave up one of its right places, in all the committees she had the right to, based on the distribution of a place in the House, made a deadline for Mr. Glavaš to go to the Commission for Gender Equality, and thus the SDA lost one of its seats, to allow HDZ to retain second place in the Constitutional Commission. So was it clear to you at the time from the SDA why HDZ wanted to hold two seats in the Constitutional Commission, the only commission in which HDZ has two members. In view of the distribution of places in the House, they cannot have... and do not have a member in the Commission for Gender Equality. So, what were they looking for? They asked to have this after a year and a half. A year and a half ago, I warned you about this, all of you who supported the commission's composition at the time, including you, Mr. Đonlagić, including the SDA. I said it would come to this and, behold, it didn't happen once, but it comes from the session, from law to law, and so 28 you will mark this entire mandate, so that all that is normal falls on the Constitutional Commission because of that other hand of the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7761	The guilty states, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ...so again, Mr. Arnaut... Mr. Đonlagić. We are against what is not our position, gentlemen, so we have our position, we are a democratic party and we are also in the parliamentary majority. So we represent what we think is right. We will first ask Mr Arnaut for our opinion and then we will plead on the Constitutional Commission. And, therefore, I'm just warning you, the Constitutional Commission is not the only place where we show our attitude against something,... Home of the people,... House of Representatives. So, gentlemen, we're a party,... learn once that you can't rape us to be for something that we're not for. You can talk to us, we can negotiate, we can try to find a solution, there's no problem, but to be for what you're suggesting, so I don't know, why Parliament, then would... in Parliament of Damir Arnaut and only be ladies and arnauts in this Parliament. So, sir, next time we'll ask you for an opinion, our opinion on how we're going to vote, so we'll make ourselves known, but a little bit of morgen.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7763	Mr. Đonlagić, he's blaming the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7764	I thank the chairman. So, MP Lovrinović again misrepresents the role of members of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Therefore, a political stance on a law is declared and presented a vote for, against or abstention of a certain legal solution at the House. So, the political position, of course, that there is every political party, and the MP and the clubs to present themselves by determining a certain legal solution or amendments and additions to a certain legal solution when we declare ourselves at the House of Representatives. But here, therefore, membership is abused in one commission, so to the Constitutional Court, in the sense that members of that Commission should only determine whether a certain legal solution has a constitutional basis. So, if, and that's that abuse of membership in the commission. So, of course, the amendments and additions to the laws passed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have, that it has a constitutional basis and has a constitutional basis in the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7765	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7766	Thank you, Chairman. Article 30(2), therefore, regarding what Mr Lovrinović is saying, the Rules of Procedure have been violated by the appointment of members of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Lovrinović, because HDZ 29 as a party has 11% of the seats in this House and 23% of the seats in the Constitutional Legal Commission. It's an anomaly where you insisted that we block everything, and the SDA gave it to you again against the Rules of Procedure. Article 30(2) says - commissions are filled in to the proportional size of MPs' clubs in the House, proportionally the size of MPs' clubs in the House. When you have 11% in the House and 23% in the Commission, you lose every aspect of proportionality. That's what I pointed to a year and a half ago on the subject of the Rules of Procedure, and I also politically suggested that you, who vote for such a committee, who, with Glavaš, make a deadline, that this will happen to you. And here's what happens to you from session to session, from law to law, and that's how you mark this mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7767	Wrong quote, Mr. Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7768	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I have no problem that the members of the Constitutional Commission do not vote, let's say, as it was yesterday when, when it was accepted to discuss the laws whose proposings were not at the session of the Constitutional Commission and I have no problem either if any of the MPs or political parties had their position, as Mr Lovrinović says, but we have heard here an offer that really, uh, comes out of normal parliamentary practice. You're offering us, not us, to offer everyone to talk to you if you want to support something, and you're members of the Constitutional Commission. Well, I guess the Constitutional Commission finds something and there's no talking about whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not, we're either there as lawyers or as advocates that we should say - is in accordance with the Constitution. With principles we agree or disagree, principles can be... but you state your position here by voting for or against the law. We are in a situation today that extremely good legal solutions kill, uh, so declaring them unconstitutional, and we all know that's not so and that's not true. So we can discuss the principles but whether something is in conformity with the Constitution or not there should be no discussion. But unfortunately here is the practice of having a political attitude and when it comes to the profession prevailing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7769	Wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7770	So, Mr. Đonlagić and also Mr. Nikšić, so they said similarly, the Constitutional Commission and every commission is also part of this Parliament,... These are Parliament's working bodies, which also have political views. [[You don't understand.]] The position of political, or any other HDZ, HDZ members on the Constitutional Legal Commission that the proposal for this law is contrary to constitutional principles and principles in general. So that was our attitude back there. What you're talking about, it's also our position that this proposed text is unconstitutional, that's our attitude,...here... as much as you want. And, therefore, Mr Arnaut we won't, I'm not talking about what you're talking about, so... the percentage of us should be in one working body from Parliament as much or as much, I'm talking about the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, which consists of two homes and working bodies in which we do, here's some parliamentary majority, although it is very questionable from every session to 30 sessions. Therefore, in this parliamentary majority we get what belongs to us under the Constitution and the law, and we have mechanisms that we have at our disposal to present the position and attitude of our constituents. And this attitude is particularly expressed in the working bodies and the House of Peoples. And of course, and again I'm telling you, so we're going to represent the interests of those who chose us in this House and what is the position of our party and our programming orientation. And what you want to do is go through what you see, you can want it to be legitimate, but there's a mechanism here. Here I was just about to take off the agenda point, and now I think it's gonna... trouble in our work, but it didn't go through, what do I do now, walk on my hands here in front of you, what do I do, you don't respect me, like I was talking in the wind. So when we learn once in a row that there's a parliamentary majority here, that there's a Rules of Procedure, that there's something going on, then I guess we'll know how we treat each other and not how we treat each other, that I'm doing what you want me to do. There's nothing out of that love.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7771	We're talking about the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Wrong quote, Mr. Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7772	Mr Lovrinović, you can invite the HDZ people in line, you can call on the parliamentary majority with whom you are only agreeing on what is your interest, you cannot invite us to order, as I do not call on you. I'm just pointing out that you can't and that your position would be right, that you would be right, so all you have to do is say which provision is violated by the bill. If that's there, I'll appreciate it. So you can't talk about it we don't agree on what the law says and can't pass, and we're voting against a constitutional basis for the law to be passed. It's so out of practice, it doesn't exist anywhere in a democratic world except here. Your suffering from your coalition partners is theirs, and Bog is becoming my problem and this country...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7773	Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7774	I find it very strange when someone is talking about attitude and in fact that attitude is a blockade, so all efforts to work in this House, and then contradictively tells us Mr Lovrinović that we should learn to work in this House of Representatives. Well, since we don't have a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which is constantly being taken out by certain MPs that the laws are not systemically, there are other MPs who should work because otherwise I don't really see the reasons for this House. I also don't know how the improvement of the electoral law and the application of court decisions, both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, is something that is not in the citizens' interest, because it's obviously not because it's not here, so it rejects and gives an insecure opinion about this law. So I personally believe and fully agree with the predecessors in the sense that the law cannot be characterised unconstitutional if we disagree with it, because we have a debate in the House and the House vote. So I wouldn't say it again, but I just want to point out that here, it's sad if the political stance is blocking all of the efforts to move forward in this country right now and make a difference just for the benefit of the citizens. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7775	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-679/20, of 09.06.2020. (first reading) The legislative sector delivered its opinion. The College, as responsible for considering the draft law, has appointed a Constitutional Legal Commission which has delivered its opinion and established that the draft law is in line with the Constitution and the legal system and has accepted the principles. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. There are no reports. I'm finalizing hearing item seven. Point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02- 02-1344/20, of 02.07.20120. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7778	Thank you, Chairman. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that, both in the previous and in this case, the proposal for a law or material is not discussed, unless the House decides otherwise, in the absence of a representative. I would like to remind you that, also according to the Rules of Procedure, the House Council of Ministers can be the sole chairman, the minister or deputies, not the ministerial assistants, it is not a commission phase. So, if we do not have a chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers or Deputys here, there is no basis for this and the previous act to be held in the debate or the House of Statements unless the House decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7779	Unless Dom decides otherwise, is that right, Mr. Arnaut? Regular discussion, Ms. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. So we'll... we'll talk about this. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7780	Well, I just wanted to talk about this. So, given the circumstances yesterday, I attended the session of the Constitutional Commission as a proposal for the initiative and, therefore, it was unusual that the Commission did not also present a representative of the proposings and that the Constitutional Commission decided, regardless of which, to debate, to give an opinion on the Law as opposed to the situation when the legislators were MPs. Then we, no matter what physically, therefore, cannot... and sometimes we can't even run with the commission to fulfill our obligation, so they're taking off the agenda of such laws. So I think when it comes to attitudes, here we see that they are inconsistencies since the laws of MPs are constantly being rejected here because they are not systemic, i.e. they are not proposed by the Council of Ministers, and when proposed by the Council of Ministers, then the proposing representatives simply do not appear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7781	Thank you. The injunction to the breach of the Rules of Procedure is right. I think it's up to the House to make a statement whether or not we should have a debate without the motionary present. So, please prepare for the House to declare itself in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. There are no general majority, of 26 present – 9 for, 9 against, 8 abstentions. I find that there will be no debate on point 8. The law on court fees. Point nine, Ad. Nine. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Nermin Nikšić's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads: The request of MP Nermin Nikšić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-l-1383/20, of 08.07.20120. After the last House session did not need an entity majority in the first round of voting to the doma Kolegijum as a commission, it failed to reach agreement on MP Nermin Nikšić's proposal for a new point. College report you got. The debate is over, we are left to plead in the second round of voting on MP Nermin Nikšić's proposal. Point 10, Ad. Ten. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Temporary Measures in the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other disasters on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, suggests: Council of Ministers of BiH (emergency procedure), number: 01,02-02-1-865/20, dated 08.07.20120. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7788	I would first of all say that it is a little indicative that in this House no one or rarely who reports for the debate in the first place when it comes to these audit reports of the impact of the Audit Office and the audit reports carried out. Sometimes it seems to me that MPs care more about hearing some of their bombers or humorous ones here, and any other statements that are going to go around the media tomorrow, and that, in fact, we often discuss the materials that are on the agenda a little bit more often. Impact audits in certain areas and audit reports are exactly an opportunity to see where the real problems in the functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are, to fix certain, to fix, therefore, the existing situation and to do what is our primary task, which is to work for the benefit of the citizens. I may, as a member of the Commission for Budget and Finance, observe all of this slightly differently and, of course, preparing for the Commission's session, read these materials but, behold, I would like to invite really fellow Members to join these points of the agenda in the future, because, as I said, there is an opportunity for us to see where the problems are and to correct them. Here, when it comes to this review of the impact of "Secret safety and integration in the EU market", here are two key pro-inflammations that are in the direct interest of our citizens, which is that, rightly, we are late, therefore, with all possible regulations regarding both industrial products and food products, so we are late with their compliance with European Union standards, and this ultimately has two problems. The first problem is that since we do not have the same standards as the European Union, so Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have them, we are getting from the European Union to our market products that are much worse quality than they are, than they are products that are placed on the European Union market, and that is already in several cases and proven, 35 and the second problem is the absence, therefore, of these laws, which are people who are businessmen and who, therefore, are given the chance to export to European Union countries can also do so with much more effort and under much more difficult conditions since, therefore, our standards are not in line with European Union standards and there are no specific laboratories that would examine the quality of the product. What, therefore, we have a few steps away when it comes to food products, however, we already have several products on the European Union market, but all this is going very slowly. And I think we really need to deal with these problems, that there is a body block here that should propose regulations for the conditions under which industrial products will be exported and for their quality. So, the Committee has not worked for several years because of the Republika Srpska government's decision. Most of the product safety rules date back to the former state, so Yugoslavia. And, therefore, I think these are the problems we really need to deal with. And at the same time, I listen here, and in the media, and party leaders, and so on. that all for the European path, and, behold, we are still groping in place because the two basic laws on food safety and the quality of industrial products have been passed since 2004, and as I said, these other standards date back to the time of SFRY. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7789	Thank you, Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. No more reports. I'm closing point 14. Point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject:, "Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 0l/4-16-10-885/20, of 05.05.2020. The Finance and Budget Commission delivered its opinion and proposed a conclusion that reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to report within 30 days on the House of Representatives at which the amendments to the Law on Demining of Bosnia and Herzegovina are made. I'm opening a debate on the report. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7791	Well, this is another report, therefore, which I see was of no interest and no interest, which I think is very important, given that one part of the report is currently referring to the Mine Removal Centre, so it refers to demining as one activity that is very important in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, therefore, it's not about politics, it's about the fact that in this process, therefore, people's lives can be lost and people's lives have been lost, and that's why one relationship is completely passive to this problem and to the prowess, therefore, which has a Mine Removal Centre completely incomprehensible. So, in 2017, the Council of Ministers established the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Demining Act and, behold, 2020, 36 we have not yet seen it, we do not know what it says. And, here, that's why he came along, and on my proposal, this particular conclusion is to provide us with existing information. Until recently, therefore, the mandate of the Demining Commission was also expired and the Commission was not elected, but, behold, it was done almost as we were informed on the Commission. And this relationship with this problem has resulted, if yesterday and the representative, therefore, of this Centre, or the Units within the Ministry of Civil Affairs, has told us that the European Commission has rerouted 10m euros from demining to migration items and... So again, one ignoring relationship to a very, very important problem. I hope, too, that such issues as are vital to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will give attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7792	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Point 16, Ad. 16. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-l-1290/20, dated 30.06.2020 The Finance and Budget Committee accepted the report and you got that opinion. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Point 17, Ad. 17. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue : 01,02-16-l-1291/20, dated 30.06.2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7798	Thank you, Chairman. 38 Well, the House of People has already appointed its members as members of this Conciliation Commission in the SDA, SNSD and HDZ. Now we have an identical, identical proposal in the House of Representatives. And now we're going back to what I was just saying on several occasions, that we're going to have, so disproportionateness in the composition of this Commission in terms of, so look, since it's the Joint Commission of both HDZ homes in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples has a total of 15% of the 57 MPs and delegates, and in this Joint Commission both homes will get 33.3%, so double. So there are no objections to proportionality again when it comes to this proposal. As I pointed out a year and a half ago, and, behold, it turned out to be quite justified what kind of problems this system of disproportionateity will lead to when HDZ comes to the Constitutional Commission, it is now my obligation to re-emerge what this can lead to. So, according to the Rules of Procedures of both homes, the Joint Commission for Harmonisation makes a decision by majority, with the majority necessarily containing at least one vote from each nation's ranks. If HDZ gives both members of the Croatian people the HDZ will veto in this Joint Coordination Commission. Therefore, regardless of the fact that Budget can also pass in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples without HDZ through this Commission will not be able to pass. And this is a catastrophic mistake that the SDA and the rest of the ruling coalition are making. And I don't understand why he keeps doing it. So you're literally giving one party, who's never said she won't support the budget, you're vetoing them, and there's no need to give it to them, here at the House of Representatives today. So it's obviously all part of some bigger deal, there's no doubt that this is part of some bigger deal. You have an obligation to the public to say exactly what this is about. And, you see, I met with this situation and when I abolished "white bread" and those commission fees. He comes, the proposal is adopted at the House of Representatives, he comes to the House of the Peoples of the HDZ to offer... an amendment, and when I resist that amendment, it is not immediately clear why, an amendment that can even be accepted. But I'm resisting right now to avoid this Joint Coordination Commission, because the moment your law goes to the Coordination Commission and HDZ gets both seats from one nation's ranks in that commission, that means you vetoed them even though they didn't have one until then. And... colleagues today will give if they support such a proposal that is entirely in line with the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure require proportionality. And if one party has 33% of the places in both homes and twice as many as 15% of the place in the Joint Commission for Harmonization, then there is obviously no proportionality, but there are agreements. There are Lukavice, there are markets, there are people who know what, but there are no democratic principles and we'll see, it might come out, there's no desire to hold local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you think the people will cheat with procedures. You won't, because the people aren't naive, the procedures aren't so complicated, and here I have just stripped them and explained as I explained to you a year ago what would happen if you gave HDZ two seats on the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7799	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 39 Well, unlike Mr Arnaut, I don't see what the problem is that there are two of the HDZ, and two of them are from the SDA and SNSD, so the parliamentary majority, I have already volunteered to simplify this procedure a little bit. Instead of taking this play Mr. Arnaut spoke of, today we will immediately accept the Budget as it was adopted in the House of Peoples, because it is obvious that we will end up with such a scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7801	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Point 21, Ad. 21. Review of the parliamentary initiative: Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut, Predrag Kojović and Aida Baručija, which reads as follows:,, On the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we submit a parliamentary initiative suggesting to the competent state and entity institutions, i.e. the institutions of Distikta Brčka (governments and legislative authorities), to prepare and adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on litigation in such a way as to integrate provisions on the release from the cost of the procedure covered by the amount recognised by the party in the name of the lawyer's fee in the event of the party representing public defence and in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, issue: 01-50-1-12222/20, of 19.06.2020. The Kolegijum was appointed by the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion and adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this parliamentary initiative. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7803	Well, I'd just be doing, a little bit, here, and the clarifications and for the sake of the public, actually, what the point is. So in Bosnia and Herzegovina, victims of crime submit claims for damages, means during the war acts of '92-'95. years and given the fact that the practice that these items are already going into obsolescence, they are, as a rule, losing their disputes and are determined to compensate for costs which are enormously large and which, therefore, are not in proportion to the objective which is to be achieved by suing. What is very important here is that in these disputes, regardless of what the state, so entity or any other level of government is represented by the Attorney General, who is also an institution financed from the budget of the D.A.'s Office, awards as if they were lawyers. So these are very high figures that really bring such lawsuits into such a situation that they are concerned about existence. Of course, the European Court of Human Rights also accepted the principle that the loser pays when it comes to costs, wanting to prevent unnecessary litigation, however, when it comes to cases like this and the European Court has already made several rulings, so where he went in favour of the party, given that these amounts of rewards and costs are indeed a significant financial burden for the party. What is also important is that the BiH Constitutional Court has also released, therefore, one of its verdicts, the 40 that has been ordered to pay such expenses and said in his ruling that the full amount of the costs imposed by the courts in a concrete case is an excessive burden, for an appeal specifically in the case, which is not proportionate to the legitimate objective that is to be achieved, and has just found that the Republika Srpska's Ombudsman is funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and is therefore not in the same situation as a lawyer. So, this is about, therefore, bringing these provisions of exemption from payment and these costs into the laws of litigation, given the existing, therefore, facts and the fact that the parties are exempt from other costs if they prove that they cannot be paid, but not the awards for representing the Attorney General which are therefore in the same amounts as when they represent the lawyer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7804	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. Respecting the argument of esteemed colleague Mirjana Marinković, I would like to encourage that, in fact, I support this one initiative because our opportunities are different from European practices. We are the land that came out of the war, we are the land that has been destroyed, we are the land in which many people have been disfigured, humiliated, robbed, and where they are threatened by fundamental human rights. That is why, in order to protect their rights, it is necessary for people, especially those who are weaker property, to seek justice at the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels, to support justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to protect their rights. However, it is obvious that in previous court practice, we have had the situation that, strictly respecting the case-law so far, a party that loses in the process of wages and court costs, i.e. the costs of lawyers, litigation, etc. I think it's unfair that we're in a situation where a lot of people are being expelled from their homes, that a lot of people are being disproved, that a lot of people are being robbed. I therefore believe that this initiative is welcome and that with special attention it is necessary when making a legal solution to take care of so that we do not improve that we have many judicial proceedings for irrelevant things, if I may say so, and that we are actually protecting the very population that is being disfigured and impoverished by war storms. So I say, here, I'll definitely support an initiative like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7806	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it would be important to me if my colleague recognized that yesterday a HDZ representative allowed you not to have a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission on this, so it would be important to me this way if you recognized it, to see that we have attitudes and sometimes, 41 as they... said, those who don't block, right, so you recognized it. And why, I was actually... I made it possible to still have no negative opinion, why I doubted. I doubted it because in the initiative, in my opinion, therefore, a dedicated or command-set initiative in a way, he said – that the provisions on liberation should be inaugurated. I'd prefer to say that the same issue of acquittal is resolved, because you didn't then include those who may have misappropriated... I believe most people rightly move it, but there are probably those who abuse it. So here you have given these, if such an initiative passes, to which it relates, to make such a solution of liberation imperative. So, I doubted it, but, well, it's going to go into procedure, so we'll see what happens. So, look, it would be my pleasure if you recognized it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7808	Thank you. Mr. Zlatan Begić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7809	Well, here's the one, the Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Not to be that we are somehow always on opposite sides, yes, it is, indeed, quite so, colleague Lovrinović, by being abstentioned, has made it possible today for us to discuss this and I thank him for that, just as I thank my colleague Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and other promoters, whose names are proposed in the material, about one such initiative. In fact, I spoke about it briefly yesterday on the Constitutional Commission. This is about people who have survived the most severe forms of war crimes, crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide. These people experience second-time humiliation in damages proceedings in a way that due to the unconventional practice of the BiH Constitutional Court that took one stand, and in a few years, a completely opposite view. And with that de facto attitude and de jure pushed the crimes of war crimes, crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide into obsolescence, therefore, when it comes to proceedings for damages. In short, to explain, and to put the legislation into practice, and otherwise there are two kinds of damages. One occurs in regular legal traffic, when you buy a cow, sell a car, God Bog you give someone a cat or a cat, etc., and another kind of damage can result from committing crimes. For this first type of damage resulting from objectively, which occurs within the framework of regular legal traffic, the deadlines for filing claims for, claims, is prescribed for compensation for damages. For this other type of criminal, for this other type of damage and damage caused by the execution of the crime is prescribed by us, and everywhere in the world, that the limitation period binds to the period of outdated criminal prosecution for the crime that the damage has been done. Since there is no age for the crimes of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, therefore, there should be no time-limit for seeking damages in these proceedings. The Constitutional Court took that position, I think, in 2001 or 2002, and then it's there somewhere in 2006, '7. He went completely in the opposite direction and took the opposite and very controversial position where he pushed de facto and de jure into antiquated crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes when it came to proceedings for compensation of damages, prescribing ageing deadlines that are equal to ageing deadlines within the framework of regular legal traffic. Because of these circumstances, people in the courts are losing their disputes, where our courts are unconventional and very significant in front of regular courts, so our regular courts are actually called in these 42 cases to the Constitutional Court's practice, and in some other proceedings, where it still needs to crack over the back of citizens, let's say in cases of bankruptcy, their view is that the practice of constitutional courts is not the source of the right to proceedings before regular courts. So, one example of a very inconsequential attitude and when it comes to the Constitutional Court's rulings as sources of law, rather than in this other case insist that the law must be amended because they apply the law as long as it is in force. So, one, one, completely, I would say, hypocrisis and controversy when it comes to the position and position of constitutional court practice itself. It's interesting, and when all this is over, after the victims are victims and for the second time these people are further humiliated in a way that determines their extremely high fees, whose reduction is required by this initiative, which goes up to 30, 40,000 marks. I ask you to take this seriously, there are victims here, so the people who have survived the most difficult moments in their lives and who are further humiliated in court proceedings, and then they are prescribed disproportionately high costs that are due to pay, and, as a general rule, in a number of cases, about people who are at the very edge of existence. Well, that's it, thank you very much, I apologize if I've overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-23-0.u7810	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Point 22, Ad. 22. A review of the SDA MP's initiative reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, we submit a parliamentary initiative to which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 35. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within 90 days the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police (the Official Messenger of BiH). 3/03, 21/03 and 8/13), in a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Judicial Police are set up as the basic organisational unit of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina", number: 01-50-l-1229/20, dated 22.06.2020. The dom Kolegijum has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion and adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on a parliamentary initiative. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to point 23, I suggest we unify the debate for points 23 to 26. That's what we've done before, because it's about giving consent, but that's what we need to say. I suggest we vote on a united debate. Overall present 31 – for 30, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority. 43 I find that we have established a proposal to conduct a joint debate on points 23 to 26. Ad. 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija on the mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-21-l-1310/20, of 01.07.20120. Ad. 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Marrakesh of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to facilitate access to the published works of the blind, undersighted and persons who, for another reason, cannot be used in the press, number: 01,02-21-l-1345/20, of 02.07.20120. Ad. 25. Approval of ratification of the Amended Convention of the European Satellite Communications Organisation (EUTLSAT), number: 01,02-21-l-1347/20, of 02.07.20120. Ad. 26. Granting consent for ratification of Additional Protocol No. 6th on trade in services under the Agreement amending and joining the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006).) number: 01,02-21-l-1355/20, of 03.07.20120.
