ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6175	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the work of the 8th session. Justified absence as yesterday was justified by the absent deputies Ljubica Miljanović and Mirsad Kukić, several MPs announced a delay, Mrs Mira Pekić, Branislav Borenović, Halid Genjac, Šemsudin Dedić, and the absence was subsequently reported by Mrs Nada Mladina. The quorum exists for work, we've finished eleven points. We're starting with the 12th point, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH Institutions, Proposers: MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Predrag Kojović, issue: 01-02-1-840/19 of 18. 04. 2019 (first reading) The legislative sector delivered its opinion. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion in which it said the bill was in line with the Constitution. The Finance and Budget Commission accepted the principles. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6177	I welcome all present, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, this is certainly one third or fourth time to explain this Law, but here is the reminder, two basic reasons why we have submitted this incijativa, i.e. it has taken earlier MPs from the previous term, which is, above all, the need to regulate all the fees of MPs and delegates in the law, and the second reason again is the fact that MPs and delegates have, therefore, very high incomes that cross the receiving of citizens and according to that disproportionateity are among the highest regions, and because of the fact that the amendments and additions of this Law are actually abolished and dropped by lawmakers and delegates. What we wanted to respect here are the recommendations of the audit institutions, therefore, the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, first of all, which suggested that all the fees of MPs and delegates, therefore, are determined by law which has not been the case so far, because we have introduced in this Law two fees which were not available, and this is the difference between salaries and fees for official travel for participation in the meeting of the House of Parliamentary Assembly and its working bodies whose MP or delegate is a member, as well as work in the work of the working body of the Parliamentary Assembly in which, therefore, the MP or delegate participates as a legislator or applicant of the amendments. I have to say that before we put up with this initiative, we wanted to actually have one basis for the bill's amendment in this form, and that's that we asked to carry out and research on height, first of all, paused in the countries of the region. It has been established, therefore, by this research that, apart from Slovenia, we are the country with the highest amount of sheets for which I, frankly, must say that I do not know what its purpose and purpose is, regardless of the definition that exists in the Law, so that definition is unclear to me. And, therefore, that we wanted to make a proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Law also to show a responsible approach to the budget and citizens' expectations, given that this Law wanted us to respect the economic and social reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in fact a certain atmosphere and public opinion and the citizens of BiH when it comes to our receipts, and here, this is a special opportunity now that we should, therefore, endure and address the problems that have arisen in the economy of this country with the pandemic of the coronary virus. That's short.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6178	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please. Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, everyone. Hello. So, as with the debate on several similar proposals at yesterday's session, I just wanted to, too, draw attention to some things today, and if there is a conclusion. This conclusion, of course, will include what was found in points 6, 8 and 12, because it is actually about amendments to the Law on Salaries and Receipts or is a similar topic. So I will remind only a part of the debate that I was saying yesterday, that I would really like to at least get the opinion of the Council of Ministers, although we have it here, for this bill which says the Council of Ministers supports the savings achieved by amending the rules, but draws attention to the provisions of Article 9 of the Statute (2) of the Constitution of BiH which will say that this law is unconstitutional, although it has the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Now, there is a questionable meaning, and in several and other points, when you have a law that is in circulation and its amendment and supplement goes, of course it contains elements of constitutionality, because there is already a law, but in the solutions that you often offer, therefore, these changes are not in line with the Constitution, so that is the question on the Constitutional Commission. In addition, this Law has the Opinion and Directorates for European Integration, which says that the analysis of the legal property of the European Union found that the matter governed by the Proposal for this Law is not regulated by legally binding acts of the European Union. What am I saying? So, again, I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday, that we never have nominal amounts that would mean the consequences of passing these laws, and what it would mean by putting these amounts into some codes, in some items, I don't know where, other than that fund there, which, of course, would be unacceptable completely and again what I said yesterday, that it's acceptable for the Council of Ministers to make a comprehensive amendment and supplementing this law and to arrange relations within, so that I call it, paying classes because there are really large groups of people in BiH that I can barely say, barely survive in Sarajevo, who come from the side to carry out their duty and work in BiH institutions. Otherwise, if it continues, here you probably think more about only these, so, officials, elected and appointed, which is okay, but, uh, I don't believe that's enough, because you have, therefore, tens of thousands of soldiers, you have cops, you have professional associates, you have subservients, who are not at all paid, and the hostages are all these stories, maybe, under the signs of the people, of this Law and these solutions. Therefore, I do not mind, again, that this Law should be amended and complemented, that it is truly seen how this situation is definitely regulated because it is a long time in the centre of attention and of the public and of us, and that, this one, suggests to us as soon as possible, so I will suggest one conclusion that I write it in written form, that the Council of Ministers be obliged to take all the materials that were related to points 6, 8 and 12 into consideration and that, within a short period of time, and not more than 60 days, propose amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds with the precise solutions, so first of all, these relations within the salaries of all BiH institutions, and then, here, to any three solutions for the savings or already depositing of that money in some other... funds or similar. I'll remind you, therefore, that, well, it doesn't matter any further, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6180	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6181	Thank you, Chairman. To Mr. Lovrinović, of course. Thus, several points he touched, the constitutionality of the Law itself. I recall the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, which is just in charge, therefore, that it appreciates the issue and the Commission has unanimously found that the draft Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. So, not only did the Commission find this, but it found it unanimous, and Mr Lovrinović is a member of the Commission. Another thing Mr. Lovrinović is being touched by employees in BiH institutions. Neither this Act nor the minority any other law which we as a Club continuously offer touches rights, especially the monetary rights of employees in BiH institutions, but exclusively elected and appointed officials and advisers. Even in those cases where employees touch, they are only the ones in the leading positions such as the reduction of severance, so the persons in the ministerial assistants and more. So definitely not cops, soldiers, and other categories with smaller incomes. When it comes to this conclusion that the Council of Ministers is proposing comprehensive amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries, this is not the first time Mr Lovrinović has offered this type of conclusion. In the last term alone, this House adopted six conclusions with the same content, six, that the Council of Ministers should be in charge, to prepare comprehensive amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries. And it was done, the reason why I remember that there were six conclusions of this kind, it was done in my Law on the Elimination of White Bread, in my Law on the Elimination of Compensation, in my Law on the reduction of fees for commissions, each time Mr. Lovrinović or someone else from the HDZ Club proposed such a conclusion, and never once did the Council of Ministers honour this conclusion of the House, and in the past and in this mandate for such changes was precisely Mr. Bevanda of HDZ. I wonder if Mr Lovrinović raised the issue on the party's bodies as to why the minister from his party does not respect the conclusions of the House of Representatives. So, this one, I can't support the conclusion that Mr. Lovrinović may have made, because it would have been the eighth time, and then it's really a derogation of the role of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6182	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs Mirjana Lepic-Lepić-Marinković.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6183	Also, I refer to Mr Lovrinović's discussion in the sense that he constantly mentions certain categories of employees in BiH institutions. I agree that their salaries are low, therefore, military, police, etc., and that they should be increased, but that is not the subject of this Law and I would just say, and when it comes to the nominal amount of savings that would be achieved by the abolition of 4 lumps for MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that is the amount of 40,671 stamps per month, net, and for the term of office of four years it amounts to almost 2 million KM, so only on the name of the paushal, i.e. 1,952.245 KM. So maybe we could just use these funds to increase some categories of employees in BiH's institutions right now from this amount.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6184	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6185	I refer to what my colleagues said, so just the last sentence of Mrs. Mirjana is what I was saying. Therefore, it is precisely this comprehensive amendment and the addition of the Law on Salaries and Refunds that could be addressed to those categories, but when it is really examined and looked at all that is necessary and necessary and proper. One amount of, to the annual budget of the BiH institutions, somewhere around a billion, means, I think, and I accept that such a kind of change is made, that the money that would be obtained by some of these proposals can't go into any imaginary funds, especially those funds that colleagues came up with, so that spending is done the way it was done, for example, in federal institutions, but that, therefore, they know exactly where it's going. These categories are severely damaged and the hostages are our ones, I repeat the Law again, and it is impossible without, uh, fully looking at and reviewing and seeing the amount in the mass of money that would be available to possibly be more justly distributed or being distributed into some other, uh, I would say, parts of the budget, the needs of state institutions, but not to form any new funds that no one can control. In addition, let's say, most of the provisions that were in the law, one of these yesterday's proposed ones, seem to me to be the one about the contribution, I don't know what, the savings actually, could have been settled through the budget law that we haven't yet, or the budget that we haven't passed this year. So, you simply reduce the items for the team, reduce the items for, you don't know, official travel, cut those items now for this year, and you could have solved that if you didn't propose that law at all, by me. So that we are making some kind of special law of short-term character, or it is better to install these mechanisms into the amendments and additions to the law of this which I propose, and also to predict such situations as the Chairman of Zvizdić said yesterday, to give mechanisms to the Council of Ministers to react in the necessary situations in a way that, here, directs funds, reduces resources. And in the end, I said, the simplest way is that if there's no money in the budget, there's no pay, especially the ones most ranked. So, there's no money, and when he does, you'll get paid, when he's gone, you won't get it, and you'll be left with your dues and your good-byes. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6186	Thank you. Miss Sanja Vulić, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6187	Thank you, Chairman. I'm essentially gonna do the right thing again since yesterday. I think my personal discretion is where I'm going to and what I'm going to and in what way I'm going to work with my money. I absolutely don't support this bill. I support what I said yesterday, is to pass the bill that we are obliged and obliged to give up one, here can be two salaries on an annual basis, not for a duration of 5 mandates, but on an annual level, and direct that money to certain funds, foundations, associations and the like. In that part, I will absolutely support that kind of bill, and this proposal is absolutely unacceptable to me and I must admit that for a long time I have not met people who are detestable or who pretend to be disgusting to money as you constantly insist on, I can freely say, a set of amendments to these laws. And, personally, I will not support this bill, because I believe that I have the right to have in my electoral base and in Republika Srpska my salary and my fair money in the way I feel it is necessary. The money we get is very high, but who seriously and studioly accesss his campaign and who is seriously fighting for citizens' trust and certainly has a place to invest that money, among other things, and in marketing if nowhere else. And thirdly, I remain firmly in the position that any change to this law, regardless of what you've wrapped up very nicely, legally and all, can, in my opinion, cause various abuses of money rerouting, and I absolutely remain in the position that I want to direct my money where I think it should be directed, not where someone thinks it should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6188	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6189	This is not about any rerouting of money, but about the fact and our desire to abolish it has been made clear to MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the simple reason that the definition of pausals is aspolutically unclear why we paused get under number one, and number two, because we just believe that, as the colleague said, our incomes are too high and that indeed the amount of 700 marks on the name of the pausal is really embarrassing when it comes to this economic situation and the pay gap between the citizens, only when we take the average wage, and those of us sitting here. So this isn't about any rerouting, it's just about lifting the fee that we think is unnecessary and too high. And nobody here is detestable of money, but we think we should show responsibility and show solidarity with citizens, and that's why this law is proposed, because indeed 700 marks for these purposes, it's simply too much and embarrassing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6190	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6191	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Vulić, she said something disturbing, to invest money in the campaign. There is a Law on the financing of political parties and it is very precisely defined how you can do it. I will remind you that almost no one from the SNSD, or SNSD as a party, has reported such investments for the needs of the previous elections. Now, if it's a practice with you to invest that money of yours you make, is it, in the campaign, and you don't report it as a financing party, then it's problematic from the legal point of view. However, if you plan to do so, therefore, invest this money that you receive as a salary in the campaign, I will take great interest in reviewing the financial reports of the SNSD and see if you have reported it in accordance with the Law on the financing of political parties, or whether the SNSD as a party has done so and if not 6 is done, then, of course, there are mechanisms to examine why this has not been done, since you have clearly now demonstrated your intention to spend the money for these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6192	Thank you. I hope everyone's been through the financial reports so far. Miss Sanja Vulić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6193	Thank you, Chairman. So, I absolutely unconnected to SNSD as a candidate I used all the space for the advertising of LEDs various screens etc. It costs a lot, I don't know that they have political parties that pay each other to their candidates. I used and paid for it in my city, and I have Mr. Arnaut's contracts, and I can deliver it to you without a problem even though I was a candidate for a councilman at the time. And it's not at all controversial, I think it's costing and that every single candidate can and has the right to invest in that part. And as far as these 700 marks are concerned, I remain absolutely in the position that, as you said, it is not, for me it is a rerouting, I want it, and absolutely I am, now that the flood has begun, this emergency when it started, we had a meeting of the Crescent Headquarters of the City, and I have given up the entire one of my salaries of the MPs, Mr Petrović two, for the sake of the Health Services Fund, and I would do so tomorrow and at any time, not one but two, three, five salaries, as much as I have to give up to help my fellow citizens, and I will always do so, not only when it comes to Doboj, but my entire electoral unit, but I say, I come from Republika Srpska, and I want to make money for people who need it, associations, organisations or in these emergency situations as we have now had during this pandemic. If you're so well-intentioned, and if this isn't all just a need to get in touch with a certain population of citizens how you take care of them and stuff, here's why you don't suggest we work just for the cobwebs. I'm not a slave to that money at all, and it's not a dispute, here, let's just work for 700 marks, see how many candidates they'll be, and how many honest MPs we'll have in this House, but also, if the law has already been prescribed and if we have the right to do this, I don't allow you to tell me where that money is going to go. I'll determine where that money will go, and you won't tell me who you're rerouting it to.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6194	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6195	Thank you, Chairman. Article 7, that the MP has the rights and responsibilities laid down by the Constitution and the law, therefore by law. I suggest to you, I think I know that all that is said here is subject to immunity, but Ms. Vulić has just said that she paid herself election materials for her campaign without being reported anywhere. So, it's completely out of line with the Law on the financing of political parties which, I'm sure Mr. Radmanović knows well, but here's just a suggestion, uh, to teach members of your club that what Miss Vulić just said is absolutely out of line with the law. So, if she invested in her campaign, if she was buying billboards and other election materials, and it wasn't reported in financial reports according to the CEC, it's illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6196	Okay. Sanja Vulić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6197	I'll bring you contracts and everything that's been reported, so nothing has been reported, so I have absolutely the right to carry out my campaign as I please and I think that's what I need. Maybe it's actually your problem here that you don't have an election base right now because you've gambled on the trust of someone who's given you to be on the compensation list, and then you just played it out and said, "I'm the smartest, most capable, I'm going to play." Now I'm just curious who's going to give you compensation, I don't know if the SDA is going to give you trust so you can play them like you did Mr. Radončić? And take care of yourself, don't worry about SNSD and our way of working. If anyone's CEC got through the needle's ears, it was us. I am absolutely behind all the procedures and everything is covered in accordance with the law and the papers, is I don't deal with it, I have these people doing it, by economists, lawyers, and don't at all doubt that I've allowed myself to be on the other side of the law. So now you can answer whatever you want, everything is covered and the CEC had a basis, so far you would punish me countless times, especially in this present composition that plans a scenario that knows any of Bosnia and Herzegovina's complete because they can no longer bear that in Republika Srpska SNSD are the only convincing and invincible party such as the SDA in the Federation. So obviously you need a slightly stronger scenario to make some kind of twists that certainly won't come your way.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6198	Please, whoever is reporting for damage to the Rules of Procedure is injured. We've already come out of the agenda. But, well, here we have Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, not keeping the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6199	So that's exactly what I'm saying and I'm asking that the discussion be channeled, so, according to the agenda and the discussion of the colleague was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure, but only abuse of actually microphones and payphones to say things about themselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6200	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6201	Thank you. 8 I refer to what my colleagues have said. So, I'm going to say that the conclusions of some, which I may have suggested in my last term, and this is also what I propose to the Council of Ministers, not specifically to the Minister, so let them there agree who will propose it, if they want to. But again, I underline, therefore, without agreement, without a clear view of the parliamentary majority, this issue cannot be resolved, however it sounds to someone. The other thing, I repeat, is that the law is unconstitutional, and exactly what Mr Arnaut said, and I said that, on the Constitutional Court, you have a dilemma about different laws, so if there was a law going on to change and supplement it, you can't say now that there's no constitutional justification to propose any other amendments. However, what is proposed in the amendments is counter-constitutional, so that the article relating to the application of these regulations, if adopted, can only be applied in the next term. So he can enter into force eight days, ten days, in my view, therefore, but no measures can be applied until, as the Constitution would say, the next term. And as for, therefore, I don't know what solidarity is with citizens, so, well, there's no one... I don't know, maybe, and that's good, but I'll say that solidarity is, for example. In white bread, I've never got an answer where these great money is, in fact, it was just fiction, assessment, nobody, it was anybody and pulled the white bread right, because it's not getting automatically, so you have to file a request, if you're moral, you won't even stand for it, and you don't need it, it can stand in the law whatever you want. But the fellow who suggested it could have done better, let's say, to raise one monthly fee for white bread, and that he stayed in that position and took it to the soup kitchen. It would just come to the citizens, this is how he knows if he doesn't have it and was where it is. So it's a story for little kids, that's why I'm talking about funds and I don't know what makes sense. And on the other hand, since then, as we have changed and received committees and working bodies of Parliament, which can only charge up to a certain amount, and if they work at a bad time, there is now some, I think, a new proposal to work at a working time, so they will also charge white bread, so, since then, so much Parliament has been efficient
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6202	Time, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6203	that it is evident, it is evident at this point that so much efficiency has increased, that here it is, I suggest that and continue to propose such measures.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6204	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6206	You all have your keyboard on when you turn red. He has a word, Mr. Nenad Stevandić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6207	9 Thank you very much. Well, I'd just like to, uh, and fellow Arnaut, who in some way called Miss Vulić and these others who spoke of the measure of the law, not to go after what every man thinks of as his own human duty to do. I know how Doboj works, uh, I know how Banja Luka works and I know how we all spend money. Why should I report to the Central Election Commission, if I, for example? I have nine families last year, and this year eight, I've been helping and funding and I'm not publishing it anywhere, and it's mine... I also know that Mr. Borenović, with whom I do not share political, as I would say, attitudes etc. And he's got some families that even know what they're doing, both Obren and Sanja, etc. So don't spend what a man wants in his environment, and he didn't present it or publish it, or compromise those people in one ugly way to say that they're poor, and that he... So, don't confuse it with this Act, yet it's our right to spend these funds, and if you followed the intensity of what Miss Vulić is and what she mentioned now, it's about a man who believes more when he knows his money knows where he's going to go, and he believes less when he's, as he's called, left it to a huge administration, where he has no idea where that money's going to go. Here's it... and plus you have a variant, let's say, that there's a discrepancy with the Constitution. So don't, we need to close this subject quickly, who thinks he should vote, let him vote, and what the lady said... don't let us provoke, call, mourn some point, point, uh, and mention the CEC. I belong to a political party that doesn't have in the last three reports of the CEC alone, two parties have no objections, I'm one of those two parties, but I don't consider it anything special, so my right is to spend my money, don't, uh, mess with this, what's called, this. After all, I know indeed, and we from the United Serbian Solidarity Fund, so, 20,000 marks, right next to the second it was formed, so we're 15 more later, that's right. So people just more believe they're targeting money where they see it being spent, than being preyed on by the administration, and then, as usual in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have no idea where it's spent. There was this perception that we're trying to show you, and not this discussion of the abuse of the Central Election Commission, I don't think that makes any sense, so don't let us turn the subject, let's be, as you would say, correct, to close this up, it's all clear who thinks about this subject, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6208	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Point 12 of the debate. Point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a law on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions (P.Z.E.I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-667/19 of 24.12.2019 (first reading) The draft law passed the Constitutional Commission, the Transport and Communications Commission, the adopted principles of the Law, compliance with the Constitution. The word is Mr. Vojin Mitrović, Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6210	10 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, I propose that this item be removed from the agenda for further consultation and reconciliation. We had one initiative last week from the European Union Ambassador Mr. Sutler, then from the entity ministries and from our resolution ministry for the need for further harmonisation and I believe that the aim of all of you here is to pass a law that will be enforceable in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. I hope you accept this request and that we will all contribute to the adoption of this law together.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6211	Thank you, Mr. Mitrović. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a business problem, so this is a mandatory point, past the procedures we've predicted. The Rules of Procedure say it can be done when the optional point is withdrawn from the agenda, but not in this situation. So, we have the following options, to accept what the minister said by voting, so that we have at the next session or to have a debate now in accordance with our Rules of Procedure regardless of this Minister's warning. My proposal is to say now by voting whether we will leave the agenda item or accept a proposal that we would partially respect the Rules of Procedure. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Then I suggest that there be a Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6212	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't know, here, it's acceptable to me however, but this is the first reading of the minister, so if what you have is an objection and if what you think is to be installed and what's missing from this law is possible until the second reading. It's not possible, is it? Nothing, then I'm withdrawing the argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6213	I suggest we make a statement about my proposal, so the proposal is actually a minister that I support, and... there is. Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, Mr. Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6214	I didn't know what mechanism to use the visa reference on your proposal, I think it's completely too much to be at the next session, uh, and that we have, let's say, a better document and what is said is something that is humanly acceptable, and it can't be taken under the very violation of the Rules of Procedure, but by the delay of the point, that means there. It's possible if we're going to get to the bottom of this, then we're going to play Rules of Procedure, and if, as normal people, we're going to set up that law, that this is a matter that's tied up, let's say, electronic transactions that are the future, let's say, any transactions, let's get a good document. Well, I don't believe Mr. Mitrović delayed it from some whim, but from being, let's say, a quality document, so I don't see the problem of supporting it at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6215	Mr. Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6216	Thank you, Chairman. You see, Dom can vote on it, uh, to postpone, but what we get then, I mean this is not a situation where the motionary begs for extra time to explain the bill, so that at the next session he shows up, so explain the same proposal. This, as I understand the promoter, he plans to make adjustments to this bill in the next period, and that is the new law, they are not and cannot be amended, because we are still in the first reading, so here is the only thing that is possible for the motion to withdraw the bill and then when it is ready to be re-delivered to the procedure, because if we are now voting to postpone the debate on this, when we continue the debate we can and may only discuss this document that is now in the procedure, if the promoter changes it, it is a whole new law with a whole new number. Therefore, this one, indeed only according to the Rules of Procedure which can be done here, is to officially inform the House that it is withdrawing the bill and when it is ready to deliver a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6217	Thank you. Weradići do it the next way, the Proposer would be the Council of Ministers in this case, he can't meet now to pull it back and do it. I am opening a debate on an existing bill proposal, it is only right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Next item 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on the Election of Judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, previously elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, MPs: Nebojša Radmanović, Snježana Novaković Bursać, Nenad Stevandić, Nenad Nešić, Jakov Galić, Obren Petrović, Dragan Bogdanić, Sanja Vulić, Ljubica Miljanović, Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović, Mijo Matanović, Predrag Kožul and Darijana Filipović, issue: 01-02-1-550/20 since 25.02.2020 (first reading), with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, the Constitutional Commission has not accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Mr. Saša Magazinović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6219	The President-in-Office, this is about one law, which was thus declared by the Constitutional Commission, but which in any case everything, and that there is a constitutional basis, as the Constitutional Commission considers not to exist, would be a one-on-a-kind solution. In response to this Law, which wants foreign judges to be expelled from the BiH Constitutional Court, counterpart Denis Bećirović in the House of Peoples has proposed an initiative to increase the number of foreign judges, i.e. double. And as far as I'm concerned, if it's about justice and justice, as most of us obviously aren't, we should drive these natives away and bring strangers who don't even know who their last name is, or whose family it is, or who any party is, and that would be the only chance that this country has more rights and justice than it is right now. The same Constitutional Court, although in the shadow of the prosecutor's affairs, including in other courts, refused to appeal in the case of Dženan Memić for an inadequate investigation within a really quick three-month period of appeal. It was then decided exclusively by the domestic judges and found that an adequate investigation was carried out, i.e. a car accident. By the way, the lawyer was not given an insight into the seven documents on the basis of which they concluded, which is precedentd in the case of a car accident. The prosecutor at the time, who led the case, Dalida Burzić boasted this Constitutional Court decision and reiterated that it was a car accident in which Dženan Memić was killed. The court, of course, finds that it's not a car accident, it's a murder. The Dragičević case has been awaiting a constitutional court statement for 15 months, but fortunately, the decision goes to a plenary session, i.e. the participation of foreign judges, and we will see what the situation will be like. So, in short, there are colleagues waiting for certain points of the agenda, so out of respect for them, I'm going to cut short. But if we were to have justice and justice, we don't have a problem with foreigners, we have a problem with the domestics in the judiciary who are on the remote control of party leaders and rights and justice in this country won't exist as long as such people decide on the fates of all of us. And finally, in the current law, and here in this which you have proposed, it is said – that the place of the judge needs a qualification to be, listen now to this, a prominent lawyer of high moral reputation. So you need to please this in order to be judge of the Constitutional Court, a prominent lawyer of high moral reputation. Well, there are more complex employment criteria in place as an expert co-worker of the Constitutional Legal Commission in Parliament than for the Constitutional Court judge. A prominent lawyer, a high moral reputation, come back, see who the judges were, where the parties were, what they were doing, whether they fit into this formulation. And of all that, instead of how to fix it, to make it better, fairer, we remembered strangers being expelled, who had nothing to do with party A, B, C, or leader A, B, C, they seem to be the only interference. It won't be possible, I call on this law to refuse and support the Constitutional Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6220	Thank you. I would like to remind you that this debate is about the Constitutional Commission's opinion, please. Mrs Alma Čolo, a regular discussion, president of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6221	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome all my colleagues and those present in the O.R. The Constitutional Commission found a negative opinion on the basis of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the principles of the Law, of 9 members of the Commission - 4 voted in favour, 4 against and 1 was abstention, which was not enough for this Law to win the passage. However, I would say a little about what led the members of the Commission to vote like this at the Commission's session. So the law proposed by SNSD and HDZ MPs goes into 13th direction that three judges, elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights in consultation with the Presidency, are removed from the Constitutional Court of BiH and that there is a constitutional basis for this. They explained that there is a constitutional basis for this, but the constitutional basis is a provision that says that after 5 years, the Parliamentary Assembly, after five years of its first term, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will be able to regulate its law by means of a different version of the judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. So in public you have a double interpretation, some argue that this is possible under this member of the Constitution, but there is also an interpretation that this is not possible, that it is necessary to amend the Constitution, because it remains in the Constitution, and such a provision would remain whether or not this Law would be passed, that the three judges elect the President of the European Court of Human Rights. Certain members of the Commission have taken the view that there is no constitutional basis. However, what is in line with this Law is that it is one of the key priorities of the fourteen key priorities of the European Union. However, of these 14 key priorities, there are a lot of those who are before this, a lot of those who are referring to reforming electoral legislation, reforming the justice system and the VSTV, to establishing a replacement clause that is very painful for RS lawmakers, which is said to be – that the BiH Constitution needs to establish a replacement clause that higher levels of government can assume the jurisdiction of lower levels of government when it is necessary to implement certain legislation of the European Union. It will be very difficult to agree on these key priorities that are before the Constitutional Court reform and before any decision on the election, the different choice of the three Constitutional Court judges now elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to refer a little bit to what Mr. Magazinović said, prominent lawyers of high moral reputation. This is an international standard, this is also a standard for judges of the European Court of Human Rights, which is a broadly set legal standard, so that those who have the most references to the BiH Constitutional Court can fit in. And the party I belong to will certainly not support this Law, and we still believe that the time has not come for three foreign judges to leave the Constitutional Court precisely because of what opposition representatives object to, that six domestic judges are linked to political parties that exercise power in BiH. We object that the two Bošnjak in the Constitutional Court were senior SDA officials and we do not dispute that, but that is why it takes three foreign judges to balance it. Two Hrvat, one Hrvat who was connected to HDZ, was charged with a criminal offence by Dragan Čović, one of the judges who is Hrvat. So we're not the only ones who need to complain. And that's why I think three foreign judges are a necessary balance, and that's what the High Representative said in his opinion, because he's the only one who's authorized to interpret the civilian aspect of the Dayton Peace Agreement, he said that this balance should be maintained, and that any change in the Constitutional Court would be some new Dayton two, he's an authorised interpreter of the Constitution and therefore I think we should support his opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6222	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6223	This session is being recorded, right, and can be seen by anyone. I think my esteemed colleague, Čolo, has assured herself of a certain visibility that will be measured by tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of those who will look at this recognition of the SDA MPs in the state parliament who admits that the two judges of the Constitutional Court are from the U.S.A. So the MP of the SDA admits that two MPs are(?) The U.S. Constitutional Court says it's an extenuating circumstance for the HDZ, and we all know that there's also one from the SNSD that Dodik called the boss. And what's the solution to that? Not to touch those domestically, but to drive these three strangers away. This is terrible people, this is terrible to the extent that no matter how early we knew it was so, that the parties 14 are controlling, setting up judges of the Constitutional Court and controlling them, this is a terrible time to talk about it publicly in Parliament, because it has become a normal thing. As we will later speak for the members of the CEC, which the party's head controls which member of the CEC and they do not care about fair and fair elections, but rather what the boss tells them.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6224	We're talking about the Constitutional Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6225	We're talking about this country, a colleague, a comrade, a friend of Radmanović, this country is falling apart when an MP in the state parliament says his party has two judges.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6226	But you're out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6227	I'm out of the picture, so this is terrible to hear, this is terrible. And he says, set criteria, this standard, to be a prominent lawyer, according to high morals, is broad enough. So who's wide enough for? For those who should not be the Constitutional Court judge, who is not a professor of constitutional law, because we are not looking for a professor of constitutional law but we are looking for Seada Palavrić from the SDA who will become judge of the Constitutional Court from this bench. We are looking for Krstan Simić, who will become this from one parliament, someone from HDZ, neither do I. So people stop and let's stop at least a little something in this country, this is a disaster...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6228	You're running out of time now, Mr. Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6229	Well, time's up, this is a disaster for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6230	Thank you, Mr. Magazinović. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr Nenad Stevandić. Please stick to the agenda and the correct Rules of Procedure, time and everything. Here you go, Mr. Stevandić, this isn't for you, this is for all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6231	Well, of course, I have to correct the wrong quote from Mr. Magazinović. It's called double standard or let's say something that's inappropriate. At the previous session, Mr Magazinović voted for the party members of the CEC. So he took part in the vote, here, and he didn't refer like he did today to the Constitutional Court judges. And to be honest, what you said, Mrs. Čolo, is scary. And it's even more frightening that someone thinks, as Mr. Magazinović said, that it's being handled by foreign judges and in America by nine judges of the Constitutional Court four Republicans, four Democrats and one push president if they will, there are no foreigners. Here the story of the state is the simple demagogy of Mr. Magazinović, there are 15 states with foreigners in the Constitutional Court, it's a protectorate, but we'll talk about it in size. So it's completely pointless for us here to force thesis on how more foreigners should be, how many statements appeared yesterday, that and everything else. So let's say, which, then, end the state officially, don't fight it by denying something to us in Republika Srpska or anyone else, introduce a protectorate so that we know we're coming to the protectorate, if you need all the foreigners. It doesn't matter if they're from parties, where they're from, where they're from, they're from this country, it's about the story, not about strangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6232	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6233	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Saša Magazinović has now come out to give a statement to the media, I didn't say at all that the members of the SDA were two judges of Bošnjak, but that the opposition objected that they were senior officials of the Party of Democratic Action, which is true, but these people, in order to be elected judges, had to resign to the Party of Democratic Action and they were not members of the SDA. My colleague misread my words, he can take a stenogram and see what I've said. However, it is obvious that the colleague is not a lawyer and does not know what the Constitutional Court is, the Constitutional Court is sui generis, it is not a regular court, judges may be submitted by the authorities and may be submitted by certain political parties. In most European countries, a number of Constitutional Court judges suggest the presidents of the states, even in monarchs, in Spain, the King of Španija proposes a number of judges of the Constitutional Court, and this is not disputed, their political past is not disputed, but at the moment they become judges they cannot be managed by political beliefs and cannot be members of political parties. And we now have such a Constitutional Court, they are not members of political parties. But Mr. Magazinović, he went to the press and he can't hear what I'm saying to him, and in the Council of Europe, he, along with me on the Monitoring Committee, claimed that the CEC members were under political influence and that the SDA controls two CEC members. When Ahmet Šantić was elected to the CEC in 2012, I applied to be a member of the CEC then, the SDP candidate told me and passed Ahmet Šantić who was SDP's candidate and is now in the CEC. And here Saša Magazinović gives me a lecture, it's obvious he's not a lawyer, it's obvious he doesn't know what the Constitutional Court is, it's obvious that he didn't listen to me out of his comfort and youth, I'm almost 60 years old and I'm not saying anything in my head. So it's important that judges are not members of the political party, it allows them to choose and not be handled by political beliefs, it's also important for judges of regular courts and prosecutors in this country, and that is necessary in all democratic states, they are not members of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6234	Time. I understand when certain MPs are excited about being inappropriately attacked, but we must stick to both Rules of Procedure and time. I remind you, again, the debate is on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who is outside the scope of this I will interrupt it, I couldn't interrupt the President of the Constitutional Commission, but the others can. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dženan Đonlagić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6235	I just wanted to tell you that I support you to interrupt and interrupt and it's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6236	Thank you. You don't need to apologize. You need to apologize to those who don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the wrong quote, Safet Softić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6237	I'm a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and on that basis, I think I have the right to both discussion and replication, and I ask you as much as I respected the College yesterday, so that you don't stop what I have to say in this room here, no matter what it is. So, Miss Alma Čolo, a colleague from the club, spoke about the law in question, which is on the agenda, especially as President of the Constitutional Commission. What I want to react to at this time, I want to say that Mr. Saša Magazinović, for me, is worthy of these parliamentary functions, but that what he did today really does not look like him either as a man or as an MP. So he did two things that were inadmissible. First, he demeaned the President of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Mrs. Alma Čolo, who deserved nothing. And secondly, he made a harsh lie, so we were all in the O.R. when Mrs Alma Čolo was talking, and we all heard that Mr. Saša Magazinović, in addition to his MPial qualities, had clearly advanced in his acting qualities. He did a play here, which he didn't need, and neither should we, after that he didn't have the courtesy to hear what Mrs Alma Čolo first had to tell him, and the rest of us, because he made harsh lies, he made harsh lies. So it's enough to take a stenogram and see what Mrs Alma Čolo said and see that it was the basis, so, colleagues Magazinović here to play his play that he really didn't need and I invite him not to do it and that in the future he doesn't make a lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6238	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, as my predecessor says, a member of the Constitutional Commission. Since we haven't discussed and explained our views on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I believe I have an obligation to explain my position. So there is no dilemma that this is a very current topic and to be absolutely precise, I am in that order, the order of those representatives who dream of living in a normal state where the institutions of the system will function, in which we will all be equal before the law, where the rule of law will apply no matter what your name or whether you are or are not a member of some political party and party. So, I would like to have a Constitutional Court or more precisely, constitutional courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina where domestic judges, experts in constitutional law would stick to the Constitution alone. I have to say, my experience, and probably 17 of you don't. Very often, the judges of the Constitutional Court behave when making decisions, vote as if it were the House of Peoples, and here, we have had the opportunity to hear previous discussions and debates about who and who they have, or try to influence. Therefore, without wanting to hurt anyone, I would like to express my doubts about the motives that led the MPs when proposing the law. Representatives who are undoubtedly authorized to propose this bill, in my opinion, only continue a long-standing pressure policy on one of the most important institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Constitutional Court. I would really be happy if sincere legislators wanted to propose the law to ensure Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty, that Bosnia and Herzegovina's state subjectivity would lead to expression, ensure the independence and independence of the Constitutional Court, strengthen bh. institutions, our citizens get the right positions and to strengthen the professionality and independence of institutions. Unfortunately, I think the initiative has actually come as a result of the desire to punish the Constitutional Court judges who have dared to make decisions that political authorities disagree with. But all of this aside, what I find controversial and what is the role and the Constitutional Commission is that under the Constitution of BiH it is not possible to exclude foreign judges from the Constitutional Court, that I am now not quoting the provisions of the Constitution. This law allows the Parliamentary Assembly to determine, in accordance with the Constitution, a different method of selecting three members of the Constitutional Court of BiH, elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, but cannot exclude them from the Constitution without amending the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6240	Thank you. Regular discussion, Mr. Zukan Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, I think that here we have today, and yesterday we had a series of laws that MPs are proposing, and where should we change the Constitution before that. I really, really don't get it, do these people who propose, do they look at the Constitution and I think this is a waste of time. We even had, uh, an explanation for a law that says - let's adopt this law, and later we'll change the Constitution to make it effective. Well, I guess the Constitution is the supreme act of a state that all laws are governed by. So I'm surprised at this proposal and this seems to me more that, uh, it seems like politics to me and I think the Constitutional Commission did the right thing and that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, and here I'm going to say, not wanting to irritate anyone about what's missing and the Constitutional Commission. Watch out, whenever these judges leave, there will come a time when they will leave, so three, three, three, three Bošnjak, three Srbin, three Hrvat. I want to remind you all that our Constitution, among other things, is based on the 1991 census, so if you want to take the latest list, and that would mean there would be approximately five Bošnjak, 3 Srbin, 2 Hrvat and 1 ostali. So, those who suggest I just point them out so they don't fly. Take a look around, whether in Serbia there are two, two judges of Serb people or from the order of the Serb people, two from the Albanian people, two from Bosniak and two from Hungarian. Or is there four judges in Croatia from the order of the Croatian people, four from the order of the Serbian people? Although I would be happy, here, first as a Bošnjak, I wish they were all Srbin, but if they were honest, correct, honest, moral people, or all Hrvat, here's like a Bošnjak speaking. It's that I have Bošnjak who are influenced by any political party, or even the SDP, because it's not good that they were members of any political party, there's no objectivity right now. And by the way, to take advantage of this, Stjepan Mikić as a member of the CEC was with me at the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives in front of HDZ. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6242	Mr. Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6243	And Mrs. Čolo, uh, Šantić was never on the SDP list, nor...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6244	Mr. Helez, we're talking about the Constitutional Commission's opinion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6245	I apologize and thank you for, uh, allowing me. As far as this agenda point is concerned, here's just two more sentences. The happiest would be if all strangers were here, not just in the Constitutional Court. I'm convinced he was the head of the Civil Protection Foreigner instead of the Bošnjak, so these respirators don't happen. And so I'm convinced in a number of things, that there were foreigners here to make it different and better for this people than some Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat who corresponds to individual presidents of individual political options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6246	Thank you. The second part of the debate was out of the agenda. The word is Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6247	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will only discuss the Commission's report at this point, so I just want you to confirm that I will have the opportunity to discuss the proposal itself. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6248	Just say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6249	Yeah, in the office. We have before, in part, whether, on the 14th item of the agenda, the Constitutional Legal Commission's opinion on the bill they have tabled, as we heard, members of this House of Representatives from the SNSD, HDZ and Serbian Club clubs. I think it is very important here to repeat what was the outcome of the Constitutional Commission vote and to take a little bit of a political position to the end. So, that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, so I note what it is, what the role of the Constitutional Commission is, that some proposal for a law assess whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, therefore, whether it has a constitutional foothold and whether it is technically well done. Undoubtedly, here, we have heard even the presentations of this opening, Mrs Čolo, President of the Constitutional Commission, that the proposal this or any other which aims to change the way these three judges currently elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, is the authority of the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore, constitutional basis. I'm not talking about laws now, we're still going to talk about it, I hope, but I can't understand 19, and I want to point out that two MPs from the SDA, one MP from the Democratic Front and one MP from the SDP voted that this has no foothold in the Constitution which, I think, is one legal non-sens and application, absolutely application, of double standards in the work of the Commission. That this position against them means, that is, for the proposal that, that is, the opinion that this bill is in line with the Constitution and the legal system has been voted by two SNSD MPs, two HDZ MPs, and we have this one glorious opinion that there is no, the opinion of the SDS MPs who said, that he is abstentioned, that he, uh, knows, as usual, neither where he came from nor where he came from. So my opinion is that we should not allow ourselves, especially the members of the Constitutional Commission to apply double standards in the Commission's work, that it makes no sense and of course, that there is no foothold in the Constitution and in the Law. The other things I'm going to do later, hopefully you'll let us discuss the proposal itself and, uh, tell you what really led us to this, this proposal, which are the reasons, what are the arguments, etc. And I'd just like one more, and I have to take a chance when I'm already up to tell those who are trying to come, to have foreign judges or to increase their numbers. So please, gentlemen, go away. Here, suggest a legal solution that half or a third or a quarter MPs, so choose a colleague of your own from Bundestag, or I don't know, come on, let's bring sovereignty down to the end like those principles on your mind. I think that would be a great solution, here to say these SDP colleagues, they love it most, so say, here's where you're going to bring three of us, I don't know, one from Poland, one from Ukraine, and I don't know, from Norway, anywhere you like it from, and let us and don't hold us back, don't tell us any application of the Constitution. My Bog, you're for luck in this country as far as the Constitution applies. Well, that is the biggest problem of this country's functioning and functioning, among other things, the Constitutional Court, but I will discuss it in the second part of the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6250	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6251	Thank you, Chairman. My dear and esteemed colleague Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, I watched after that Constitutional Commission one statement that you gave directly to the camera when you didn't know, or when you explained how the Constitutional Court judges were elected, so you sweated three times, fixed, and you couldn't calculate up to nine judges. There were six in one version, there were 11 in one, and I don't know how many there were in the third.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6252	What's the correction to the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6253	Now I'm gonna tell you, I'm gonna get to the wrong quote. I'm a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and let me, I voted, I was abstentioned to explain why I was abstentioned 20 and to say this negative opinion. So, I'm saying, first you shouldn't have answered, commented on this when you didn't know, when you didn't know how many members, how many judges the Constitutional Court of BiH had. Now, I voted with abstention, I was with abstention because, and I guess, here I saw that a colleague named Šarović came forward, that he would explain it in more detail and say something about it, I'll say it briefly, because you tried to commit a fraud and because you tried to transfer jurisdiction from Republika Srpska to Bosnia and Herzegovina. After the ruling of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and which was the reason for this at...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6254	You're out of time, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6255	...the president of your party...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6256	You're out of time. Thank you. Mr. Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong assumption. I'm asking you to stick to that, we've already agreed, so you all know what the Rules of Procedure is. Tell me what's wrong with the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6257	Chairman. I am correcting the wrong allegation because my colleague Bursać-Novaković-Novakovic said that we from the SDP should propose to come here to Parliament from the Bundestag people, that we have said that we are here to remain foreign judges. Here, on behalf of the SDP, I have proposed another proposal, in accordance with the Constitution, that we change and let the foreign judges go, but Mrs. Novaković can't be three, three, three, forget it, it will never be, because then one other people is threatened if you look at it that way. Believe me, it's the other way around. We have to stick to the list. If in the government of Republika Srpska there are eight ministers in the order of the Serb people, five in the order of Bosniaks, three in the order of Croatia, in the Federation according to the Constitution, then eight in the order of the Bosniak people, five in the order of Croatia and three in the order of Serbia, how will there be three, three, three? So forget it, it could be consistent with the '91 census. or this new List and let the foreign judges go, no problem at all. There, that's correcting the wrong quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6258	Thank you. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6259	I'm correcting the false quote of a gentleman who, because of his steps and his way of articulating his so-called views in public, I don't want his name to mean anything at all to mention, you all know who he's referring to. I don't think a person like that deserves it, here on my part, doesn't deserve me to mention his name. So, because of the views of one gentleman, our fellow MP, and the way he speaks in public, I don't want to mention his name 21, but you all know I'm correcting the wrong quote where he says I don't know how to choose. Keeping in mind the poor way his public communication pulled out my lapus lingue, which was automatically corrected in the next few seconds, because of the technical problems I had with the headphones it did happen to me, but I know very well how to choose judges and the Constitutional Court etc. And as for Mr. Helez of yours, your imputation, so I told you if, on the principle and approach that you here as a party are approaching serious problems, so I just wanted to perform an analogy that makes sense to me. If in the highest court body you suggest so, then give analogy to all the lower organs and we'll get to what Mr. Stevandić just said, we'll have a full protectorate as well as possible, not at all, I mean, a possible variant. Then don't be hypocritical and talk about sovereignty, so your mouth is full of protection of statehood, so your mouth is full of protection of constitutional order and legality, and you have such solutions and you suggest such solutions publicly. So I just want to show you how pointless or hypocritical it is, I'm not denying you the right to think or to suggest, I just want to say how that, what it can lead us to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6260	Thank you. Until we get to our microphones, you'd better hear it when you're sitting. Mr. Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6261	So, to continue, what you tried to deceive the Serbian people in Republika Srpska and to cover the agreement of political parties all, and the first proposal and the proposal set out at that meeting was that one judge delegated by Republika Srpska was proposed by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and there is a Minutes on this, there is, if we need to deliver it to you, we will provide you with a record. After you referred to the Act procedure, along with HDZ, you committed a fraud, a falsification of that meeting and excluded the National Assembly of Republika Srpska from the process and transferred it, the delegation that should be carried out by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, transferred to the BiH Presidency. That's the problem, that's the catch. And as long as you behave that way, as long as you use the situation to transfer the jurisdiction of Republika Srpska to a small door..
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6262	Wrong quote, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6263	Yeah...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6264	You have a regular discussion, and then you speak in general.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6265	...we'll behave like this, and I do, so I signed up for the discussion, and then I'll explain a few more things in the discussion. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6266	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6267	Well, here's the truth and the correctness of it, it seems to me that we need to correct Mr. Helez's false claim. Namely, this amendment of the Law, and the original constitutional decision on the election of constitutional judges, does not define the nationality of constitutional judges, but rather the territory from which they are elected. So, the question of nationality is not at all questionable, everyone can be if you want, as far as the law of one nationality is concerned. The second, at least here, I don't know how much this concerns me, so to speak, but again the truth and the correctness is doing, since I signed this bill, this bill does not assume jurisdiction in selecting additional three members of the Constitutional Court from Republika Srpska, but from the European Court of Human Rights, and since I am a signator, it is important to tell me that it is very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6268	Thank you. Mrs. Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6269	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, when we talk about who voted on the Constitutional Commission, I want to say that Mr. Mektić voted with abstention because you're not doing anything else here but running around Mr. Adil Osmanović with the desire to become part of the government. And it's obvious, and the public needs to know that you're missing a squabbling with pretty ladies in the pools, and as they say in Sarajevo, you're no longer at the price since you're not a minister. So, the amazing thing is what people do for a little popularity and position in executive power to be important and important. The very fact that you're under trial is enough to say that you don't belong in the Constitutional Commission. And you, Mr. Mektić, are a fraud, and I don't even know if you deserve me to treat you with respect, given that you're not doing anything else, but you're looking at how you're going to express your masculine attitudes towards a more gentle woman population. Your work is about following the labs and everything that can happen to anyone during a public appearance, and if we did an analysis of your labs and your absurd statements that were countless while you were a minister, it would really be for one book, printing a book – believe it or not. So, about your morality, your honesty and your honesty, you had the opportunity to show yourself and prove yourself during the ministerial term, and apart from having a new youth, you did nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6270	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6271	23 Ma to the esteemed representative Novaković. So you're as if you haven't heard what I'm saying. Here, I'm for it like you are to leave the judge, but we disagree on the way the Constitutional Court judges choose as you suggest, so that's what I said. And Mr. Kožul, there's something about you that's something about ethnicity, and only when it doesn't answer or when it suits you then you go around it. We will not change the Law on the Selection of Constitutional Judges in part, when foreign judges leave the Constitutional Court, then we will pass a whole law and then we will agree on how it will be, but I repeat it again, given that our Constitution, I would like it to be a civil type of our Constitution, it is on ethnic principles and cannot be excluded from it only by the Constitutional Court. We'll either do everything right, from local community to top, or we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6272	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6273	I report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 79. The Rules of Procedure, which are measures in the event of non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure at the sitting in the position of (5) of Article 79, are said to imply, under disregard of the order, the insult of MPs and others present, the frequent entry into the wording and non-compliance with the notice of the Chairman of the House. I think that in these discussions we have already reached a degree of insult of MPs and others present, and here, my colleague Softić was just yesterday saying that we should maintain the home's dignity and certainly a culture of communication, and already some discussions, therefore, absolutely cannot fit into the culture of communication and have already become, therefore, offensive and inappropriate comments and I really ask you to apply this Article 79. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6274	Thank you. Mr. Mektić, you no longer have the right to correct the wrong assumption. We're going to regular discussions, Nikola Lovrinović. I remind you once again, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission is the point of the agenda, please stick to it and don't make me take someone's word away.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6275	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I don't know what you're warning me, but I'm mostly holding on. So, I'll explain my position on the Administrative Commission. I am a member of the Constitutional Commission, I voted in favour of this Law, and I believe that this alone defends the sovereignty of this state and nothing else. So the legal foothold exists, but here it is, so it is, and I suggest to my colleagues that this Opinion of the Constitutional Commission be rejected, that the procedure be returned. But I'm just saying this time it's just like that to remind me of something I was saying yesterday, because, uh, we're playing power. So, we'll solve all our problems 24 when legitimate representatives reach an agreement, not to try to trick ourselves as an initiative to solve something, so we won't get anywhere. All that is contentious, would anyone become a member, here, of the Constitutional Court or of any other body of BiH, and the parties should be dealt with by law and we should decide that these possibilities, therefore, where full independence is required through the provisions in the laws, and not that we are here to claim whether someone is power or not. So, here I really remind my colleagues, especially from the parliamentary majority, that this is the time to be a government, to be a government, to sit down and to establish order for this Parliament, and to this state and to know who is responsible for any state in the country, and also to adopt laws and regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6276	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Šarović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6277	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, on behalf of the Club, I would ask you to take care of the respect of the culture of communication and either take your word or take other measures for those who do not follow it, no matter who it is. I think I agree with the previous that we have already entered into something that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. But, as far as this point is concerned, respecting that we are only discussing or discussing the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, I would refrain from commenting on the content itself, there will probably be opportunities later on, but on behalf of the SDS-PDP Club, I would like to say that we believe that there is a constitutional basis and that the Constitution is not an obstacle to resolving this issue and this topic that lasts for years, perhaps ten and more years, and I think that the time has come to find a proper solution to the law, so it is not necessary for us to change the Constitution of BiH and in this sense we will behave, but we are deeply dissatisfied with the content itself. I think he's the one who's short-range, and he's probably not going to lead to the ultimate goal. For this question, I think it takes much, much greater consensus and much greater width to come to a final solution. In that sense, we will also vote on this Opinion in the way I have said now, but we will give a chance to the amendment phase where we will have certain amendments and try to make this solution better because this is too day-to-day and for an election process which, in our opinion, is unacceptable. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6278	Thank you. Mr. Zlatan Begić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6279	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome you all very much. So, you see we here have even different interpretations of whether this law is even possible to bring in line with the current constitutional solutions. It is the consequence of an Anglo-American model of constitutional normation, which mainly operates with legal standards, what is a legal standard and prominent lawyers of high moral traits. For me to explain it now, about, I will try to be as clear as possible for a Balkan man, not everything that is not explicitly written, 25 because he will immediately ask you – and where does it say so? And that, for example, is one of the basic problems in the functioning of institutions, and also respecting the principles of rule of law, which traditionally according to the legal mile we belong to, we're used to having everything written down. On the contrary, we have a Constitution of twelve members, and to make the matter even worse, such an Anglo-American model of constitutional normation is combined with a centralised European model of constitutional protection, which is insufficient, insufficient and which involves only one court, therefore the Constitutional Court that protects constitutionality. Such a level of framework legal standards and framework constitutional regulatory requirements extends much the level of protection of constitutionality, i.e. a decentralised model of constitutionality, as is present in countries where heritage is an Anglo-American model of constitutional normation, where it is understood that each court first observes constitutionality and only then legality. In our case, regular courts have the responsibility only to apply the laws, even if they, as the practice shows, are on prima facie basis unconstitutional. So constitutional regulation is at the level of principle, rights and freedoms are not sufficiently elaborated, property rights are guaranteed, and then, let's say, it doesn't explain what includes property rights, that pay is also a property right. Well then, the Federal Parliament does not recognize the fact at the Law on bankruptcy proceedings, and even the MPs ask, and where does it say it in the Constitution, etc. and so much closer. So, the problem is not simple, this topic is written hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of articles, books, of which I am the author of a few dozen articles, books that have been published around the world, and it is especially not easy to get rid of one law that consists of several members. The laws are passed, my dear colleagues and colleagues, rational persons, rational matter and rational temporas. This law only partially struck, only partly rational persons, cause. What does rational matter mean? Well, we have a huge problem with the Constitutional Court's functioning. The Constitutional Court, its Rules of Procedure, itself and its practice, have in fact limited itself, in my opinion, totally illegal, because there is a tendency in the modern world to strengthen the position and functions of constitutional courts. Furthermore, the answer to the question, given this first only to return, the BiH Constitution has no protection against cantonal laws, sublaws etc. and so much closer. Furthermore, no question has been defined who may be the Constitutional Court judge, which are procedures guaranteeing objectivity, including political neutrality during the elections. When we go to operate on the heart, we go to cardio surgeon, right, we're not going to go to the eye doctor. In our case, every lawyer of high morals, regardless of the area of law he has dealt with, references, can be the judge of the Constitutional Court and is engaged in constitutional law, which is one completely, completely special discipline. ...for happiness it takes two, and in our case, of course, three, and I think that this kind of law would have to be passed really in one serious atmosphere, with the participation of not only Parliament, which is primarily a layman's body, but also professions to answer all these questions. So, this law is needed, this law is needed, but in order to define all... and I just want to finally say that the thing is much more complicated, which colleagues who deal with this matter that and how they know it, this, than it looks at first sight. It is not just three foreign judges, it is a series of issues, a series of open issues that would have to be resolved by one law, and I would be happy if we had prepared a comprehensive text that could be adopted by the end of this term and that would have met all these conditions that other colleagues had talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6280	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Mektić, discussion. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6281	Thank you. Chairman, if you'll just let me read something from the Internet, etc. ... in a classical sense means too many stories, or a stream of words, manifested as a mild form of mental disorder, as a constant need to speak or to speak for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6282	Mr. Mektić,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6283	Also connected... which is similar... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6284	I have to shut you down, Mr. Mektić. We're talking about the Constitutional Commission's opinion, and you're starting to insult the MPs. So please, yes, you have your time, but within the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6285	I just took this opportunity, since I had no right to, uh, misquote, so to take advantage of it in part and respond to the honourable Member Sanji Vulić. I said I voted abstentions because it was perfidously tried to transfer jurisdiction from Republika Srpska to the BiH presidency, i.e. at the state level, and to exclude Republika Srpska completely.... Judges at the BiH Constitutional Court, and it finely states that instead of these three judges will delegate Republika Srpska. How does Republika Srpska delegate it when the BiH presidency does so? And as Mirko Šarović said, we will again be correct according to this initiative, so we will support it as far as we are concerned in our first reading and give the SNSD a chance to return to the agreement of political parties, which was in Banja Luka, and we will fix it in this legislative initiative in a way that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska returns, regains jurisdiction and allows it to delegate the judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6286	Thank you. Mr. Helez, you've already participated in the discussion, you can't get your word back, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Nenad Stevandić, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6287	Mr. Chairman. What I said in correcting the wrong allegations about the protectorate, I'm going to let you talk when it comes to the measure of the law, but since everything I've heard this 27 I can't not react and I'm going to be very polite and I'm going to say condescending. I'd like to say a few very important things. It is not Republika Srpska, although it is here, as it would say, the bill signed by colleagues who are not from Republika Srpska, the one who has the most unexecuted decisions of the Constitutional Court and is not the story of the January 09th scale, which is the date of birth, so now whoever thinks he can change it, we can't. Eight outstanding constitutional assessments, 15 appeals, of which eight were only tied to military apartments, it seems to me, the one in Republika Srpska and the one for January 09th. That's why we just started this story, but it's precisely this story of sovereignty, and of course because of the story of BiH's European perspective, where there's no division, whether it's SDA, Our Party, SDP, Independent, United Serb, DNS, so no one is against the European agenda of Bosnia and Herzegovina, let's say that this European agenda represents Mr Satler, is it here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? No interruptions. So, he said... the last decisions, I quote this from Satler, the Constitutional Court -- that BiH cannot become a member of the European Union with an existing degree of international supervisory and cannot enter the European Union until international supervisory is resolved. This applies to both OHR and international judges in the Constitutional Court. There is no colleague, Saša Magazinović, who said we should, and Mr Arnaut, change all these judges domestically and put all the European judges. So that's the problem, let's say, in perception and that's the problem, I say, in our double standards, if you're for Europe, then surely you can't be a protectorate of judges in the Constitutional Court who don't choose domestic legislation and domestic authorities. I don't want to read any further on Satler and, uh, I don't spend much time, I'm having a metric discussion, I need to tell you a few things. You know that, by accepting what Mrs. Čolo said about the metrics, that judges from the Constitutional Court cannot be expelled, this is about the envisaged mechanism for judges to be elected in the domestic parliament, and that is, to say, what is also in full agreement with the Constitution and the law. If we have a controversial point that these judges who are even elected in the domestic parliament must remain strangers, which you were talking about, and for that there is a solution if we are all rational people here, so there are solutions. If there are going to be foreigners, we can choose foreigners, but in this Parliament, so I don't know if the Bošnjak will choose someone from Turkey, Hrvat from Croatia, Srbin from Belarus or from America, I would like to choose a US judge on behalf of the Srbin in the BiH Constitutional Court. I'm just telling you about how we have to choose from here, that's it... because we're not going to close any stories as long as there's an OHR, either, let's say, a way for someone else to choose judges in the Constitutional Court without the authority of that state in the Constitutional Court of that state, that's an alpha and an omega of every, let's say, sovereignty. The way I choose, so I repeated, if we can't throw out then the way the election is changed by that law and I think if I followed well and what Mr. Šarović said, he's in the mood for the amendment phase, to support himself in the first reading... so let's get people to find a solution. Who says we can't find him in ten days and ten minutes? So, there must be a solution to the European Agenda, related to, the Constitution will be respected, because it is foreseen, because you gentlemen know that post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the result of all 28 of us, let's say, compromises and, say, opportunities to live in peace, that our children grow up in a state where there is no conflict,...the result that we gradually resolve these kinds of protectorates. There were international forces here for a while, there was SFOR on every corner, so there was no more, he doesn't need to guarantee security, we guarantee it to each other ourselves, right? Why would the exclusion of the survival of the protectorate be exclusively in the Constitutional Court? If the child walked, don't let him wear that walker on his back all the time and embarrass him or if the patient who was, let's say, broke his leg, like Bosnia and Herzegovina in this war both, walked away don't wear crutches.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6289	Time, Mr. Stevandić, time, look at the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6290	Here's the final sentence. Uh, what my colleague Mektić said, so there's no transfer of jurisdiction from Republika Srpska, and if she hadn't even chosen, to the third judge... This was elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, it is about the transfer of jurisdiction from the European Court to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6291	Mr. Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6292	Well, here's very reluctant, but since I've put my signature behind this bill, I'm going to look back on this finding by Mr. Mektić from a moment ago, that he'll be correct and supportive here, or be against the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is kind of nonsensical, because that way he changes his position with the Constitutional Commission. And I will remind you here of what we all know, but here for the sake of the public it is good to say, Mr. Mektić's voice in the Constitutional Court was crucial to the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and that subsequent correctness here at the plenary assembly of this House will unfortunately mean nothing, just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6293	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6294	Thank you very much. Here I will try to adhere to the agenda, because we have on the agenda a Opinion on the Proposal for a Law to elect judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which was previously elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights in consultations with the Presidency. I've listened very carefully to my colleagues, it's really hard to say and refer to everything, but from what I've heard, it's really surprising. First of all, many are calling, and even on the theory of constitutional law, they have tried to explain things to us, etc. referring to the Constitution, as we know what, how judges of the Constitutional Court are elected, etc. Forgetting certain facts that, of course, 29 are familiar to all of us. All of us sitting here in this House of Representatives have committed ourselves to respecting the BiH Constitution. How? In what way? Expressing either your own political position, so when it comes to the choice of this, or the bill. So this Constitution of BiH, which we have all committed ourselves to, says - for the appointment of judges after five years after the first appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly, can lay down by law a different way of electing the three judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. What is disputed in the constitutional basis of this Law? I haven't heard a single argument and I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, I haven't heard it there either. I respect and respect that people have a different and different political attitude, then it can explain it, it's visible today. When it comes to this and if I say that we don't have a constitutional basis for making such a law, then it's not us who decide it. Why doesn't the gentleman who says that this constitutional law, even today, have a constitutional basis, why didn't she pass it on to a competent institution that's the only relevant one to assess the constitutional foundation of the laws we're proposing here? So in this sense, and when it comes to jurisdiction, where individuals have referred, it absolutely does not stand, the Constitution of BiH prescribed the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in which it says – the Constitutional Court will support this Constitution and is precisely numbered under a) in which it has the exclusive jurisdiction of decision-making. Also, lower constitutional courts, entities, are prescribed constitutional jurisdiction of these constitutional courts. Let's not forget as much as any of us are up here and say, it's not prescribed, who, how, etcetera. The judges of constitutional courts, of course, should be prominent lawyers, morals and all other professional qualities. We know well who they are and what kind of lawyers they are, we know that no law enforcement attorney has had to have constitutional rights. He also had to take the case when passing the expert exams, as well as when passing the judicial exams. But let's not forget, the judges of constitutional courts, constitutional courts are a corrective factor in the legislative and executive authorities, they are sui generis courts, they are not courts of regular jurisdiction, to which judges are elected in certain areas and by tender procedure. Therefore, I ask you to reason with us and to be, to work in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina's subjectivity and sovereignty, so if this bill is not good, convince us and tell us that it is a good other way, and that one can be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is good for all three of its constituent peoples and all the other citizens living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we will also support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6295	Thank you. Mr. Jakov Galić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6296	...matter, I speak as a citizen, a well-intentioned citizen. I don't really see anything wrong with what's come, in my opinion, at the very least, the time that foreign judges are being replaced. The Constitutional Court judge, in my humble court, must be a really top-notch lawyer, so he must be a high-intensity lawyer and a reputation, but a lawyer who, above all, needs to know the justice system, our domestic legal system, our Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. A judge who knows only one small part of that legal system, you'll agree, can't be a good judge of the Constitutional Court. A judge who is educated in the Anglo-Saxon legal system, who does not know or who is not the native language of the country in which the constitutional judge is, can also not be a 30-good choice for the Constitutional Court judge. The judge who judges the floor, I believe you won't agree with me many, judges who judge under the influence of one part of the international community, can't be a good choice either, we've certainly learned this over the past 25 years. I would agree with many of what they have said that what they agree essentially to remove the foreign judges from the BiH Constitutional Court, because it is really high time to show that we are a sovereign country. As long as the foreign judges sit in the Constitutional Court, we will not be able to say that we are a sovereign country and that we have sovereignty. As far as I'm concerned, I'll talk further in this second section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6297	Thank you. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6298	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a moment, let me refer to what Mr. Galić just said, so that someone who is educated in the Anglo-Saxon system cannot be the judge of the Constitutional Court. To us is the Constitution of Anglo-Saxon, to us the Constitution is written in this tradition and it is a very strange conclusion that it cannot be decided by someone who is educated in that tradition. However, as to whether this is, whether or not this Law has a constitutional basis, it is very easy to establish it through the very insight into the provision of the Constitution that allows, or concerning the way the foreign judges choose. It is very clear that the Parliamentary Assembly can lay down by law, quote – a different way, after five years, a different way of choosing the three judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. So, after five years, this Parliament can determine by law a different way of choosing these three judges and in no case changes the fact that these three judges, in accordance with Article VI (1) d) of the Constitution, cannot continue to be citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or any of the neighbouring countries. So, the law can only determine a different way of choosing those three foreign judges, but if someone wants to get foreign judges out of the Constitutional Court of BiH the only way to do so is through an amendment to the BiH Constitution. Now as far as this is concerned for five years, this member of the BiH Constitution says -- that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can provide for a different way of choosing after five years of law, it can. And the BiH Constitution is indeed not only the Constitution, but the Dayton Agreement as a whole is full of some transitional solutions, some of which allow changes to be made, some of which require changes after a certain period of time. Like that. Article III item (5) of point (b) of the BiH Constitution says – over a period of six months from the entry into force of this Constitution, entities will start negotiations with the aim of including other issues in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the use of energy sources and joint economic projects. So here it doesn't say that entities can, so this is a member concerning the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, they are numbered, explicitly numbered. However, through this provision, the Dayton Constitution ordered entities to start negotiations within 6 months -- entities will start negotiations with the goal of including other issues in the BiH institutions' jurisdiction. This provision has never been respected, entities have never started negotiations with the aim of increasing BiH's competence, the arrest of BiH, and this is a constitutional order. This thing about the Constitutional Court judges is only 31 possibilities left after five years, and this is a commitment. This obligation has never been respected, and therefore Bosnia and Herzegovina and today so many years after Dejton, there are still only those powers which are explicitly mentioned in the Constitution and a few of those transferred by the entity agreement. There is nothing about the use of a source of energy, there is nothing about joint business projects, although it is an obligation from the Constitution of BiH, and the way judges of the Constitutional Court elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights are simply the possibility left to change their way of choice. But there is no doubt that the law can only determine a different way of selecting three foreign judges, but it remains an explicit obligation listed in another, second point of this article, that these three judges cannot continue to be citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or any of the neighbouring states. This is curiosity, to say the least, or anomaly when it comes to the BiH Constitution, but the whole BiH Constitution is a curiosity or anomaly. And this solution has not been incorporated into the BiH Constitution just like that, it has been built in view of all other blockades in the BiH Constitution and this can be changed, that is to say, the removal of foreign judges can only be achieved by amendments to the BiH Constitution, which will necessarily entail other changes, i.e. the removal or mitigation of other blockades that are, that is, the blockades that are incorporated into the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6299	Thank you. Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6300	Thank you very much. So auctioning with Anglo-Saxon or any law applicable in the BiH Constitutional Court, I think that, for example, on January 09th, it should be completely excluded. One of the judges who had the right to declare January 09th is an unconstitutional judge from Macedonia, where it is argued that it cannot, we should say, match a religious holiday with the day of birth, in a country where Ilindan is a national holiday and a day of state. There's nothing there, as I would say, the possibility that it... But the other thing you said, colleague Arnaut, I like it very much, I said it, if we can't unpack the Constitution, because it might be Pandora's box for other amendments to the amendment of the Constitution, then we can use this law to be in the amendment, which Mr. Šarović mentioned, let's say, a law chosen by three judges, who are for the sake of the Constitution by foreigners, but who choose domestically, which is chosen by the local authorities. I, again, suggest we go into it, that's what we all say, gives us some amount of seriousness not to subject ourselves to the protectorate, but to be, to lose the crutches, to walk. There will be these political conflicts, different interests, who knows who will be in power in ten years,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6301	Wrong quote, Mr. Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6302	Don't measure this year by the judge of the Constitutional Court. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6303	Mrs Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6304	I don't know how Mr. Stevandić knows that a member of the BiH Constitutional Court from Macedonia voted, because as far as I know, the Journal of the Council and the vote of the Constitutional Court judges is not public and can't be seen publicly, probably someone from the Constitutional Court told you that. But what's the problem here? Here is the problem of what is the goal that you want by proposing such a law? You want what you do at the level of Republika Srpska's entities by creating a round-up legal, constitutional justice system by making laws that invade the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to prevent an assessment of constitutionality before the Constitutional Court, and to prevent an independent and impartial decision largely involving foreign judges. Well, we've had the opportunity to see how much, as your revolt has caused the Constitutional Court's decision when it comes to assessing the constitutionality of the Agricultural Land Act, we'll soon have the Real Rights Act, we'll soon have the Law on Forest Land, because everything the state property of Republika Srpska seeks to provide itself with its own laws, and then it doesn't respond to the Constitutional Court's decisions. I warmly recommend that you stop making laws to break into the constitutional justice system of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then you will not mind who is sitting in the Constitutional Court and whether this Constitutional Court is making independent, legal and impartial decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6305	Wrong quote, Mr. Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6306	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, I have to use this way, but I won't be longer than 30 seconds indeed, and this time listening to this discussion is confirmed by what an old professor of constitutional law told me some 15 years ago, that constitutional lawyers in most cases find it difficult to understand even other lawyers who are not engaged in constitutional law. My recommendation here is to find an opportunity to engage seven, eight people, we don't have them anymore, we're dealing with constitutional law and we're including them in a body that would even prepare this law, whether through our political parties or in some other way. I think it's necessary given the great importance of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6307	Thank you. Mr. Stevandić had two corrections to the wrong quote and you can't have any more in the Rules of Procedure. Okay, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6308	Thank you very much. So I want to tell Mrs. Alma Čolo that what she was saying, that it had nothing to do with the agenda, so if we talked about the measure of the law. I'm just reacting to Mr. Helez telling you, Arnauta, regarding Anglo-Saxon law, gave a suggestion of what 33 of you reacted to in a way that had nothing to do with the agenda. Therefore, I repeat that the Macedonian, the judge, as I said, is true, it cannot be denied and it is not a secret. Is it supposed to be a secret? Then it's not the Constitutional Court, then it's a secret court, which will secretly judge me tomorrow, for you, the geopolitical situation will change. There might be some from Indonesia and China and all that, so you're gonna complain. I'm talking to you about the measure of what we can do, and remember what I'm saying now, and I'm finishing up, Bosnia and Herzegovina is both constitutionally and in agreement and with our perception based on what two entities and three peoples agree on. The only thing that doesn't work is the Office of the High Representative, which is our restriction on European integration and democratic structure and the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6309	Non-compliance with the agenda, Mr. Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6310	So I answer to the lady to explain to her where she was wrong...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6311	You got the word to remind me that someone's not holding up, and you're doing it...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6312	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6313	It's good. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6314	Chairman, I think you have indeed noticed that I support you every time in the proper interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and here, let's say, and yesterday I was perhaps the only support when you correctly concluded that there was no basis, uh, to discuss the Law in the absence of a proposing who was able to explain it, but I can't take the impression that you are applying different standards, not even to representatives of authorities and opposition, but to representatives of a pause or group of parties from which you come to other MPs. I really ask you to put aside this party membership in that position, because what Mr. Stevandić has done now may be the most obvious example of the abuse of the business provisions we had, here, at least in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6315	Thank you for your warning, but the light analysis will determine that you're wrong. Even vice versa, you could have read on some social networks as I warn most of my Club MPs. And that's what I did now when it comes to Mr. Stevandić, but we're not having a discussion about it. Non-compliance with the agenda, Mr. Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6316	34 I'm sorry, here, I'm shutting down because, uh, I think it's clear. And correcting the wrong quote would be if I could, very briefly. Not only are Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat living in this country. I am not an apatridus, and this is my country, so I guess I also need as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are also members of constituent peoples by their nationality and by their citizenship. So, I guess, that one, we need to keep that in mind, and given the standards in terms of our equality and equality as citizens, which we, truth be told, have not yet been through our constitutional order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6317	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on item 14. A few information, a break up to 12 and 50, an hour. We'll be working until 18 hours today and we'll continue tomorrow, since it's clear that this way of work we can't exhaust this agenda for another five working days. Thank you. Break to 12 and 50. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. Point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2017, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-2701/18 of 10. 12. 2018
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6321	Please initiate the plea procedure if there are no other suggestions. 35 I don't see it there. Here you go. 32 present – 28 for, 4 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have agreed, that is, to bring the debate together for points 16 and 17. Ad. 16. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01-02-04-1616/18 of 13. Seventy-seven. 2018, and Ad. 17. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1-1243/19 of 08. Seventy-seven. 2019 I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6323	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6324	Yes, the secretary reminds me, the Commission adopted the Report and proposes the adoption of the next conclusion – the Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to end the adoption and delivery procedure for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the new text of the Personal Data Protection Act as soon as possible, and to act in an adequate manner in accordance with the conclusions set out in the Report on the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2018 in order to ensure the legal and effective way of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6325	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6326	That's 17. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6327	Thank you, Chairman. As for the last point, only Article 74(3), in the event of the absence of an act promoter, shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. I just don't know if we have, I don't know who they are, just to confirm at every point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6328	We have a representative of the promoter, Mr. Arnaut, if I understand correctly, if that's what you mean. We just didn't ask him to participate in the debate. No reports have been reported. I'm closing points 16 and 17. 36 Before we move to the next point on 18th, I suggest that we share the debate on points 18 and 19 since it is the annual reports of the Ombudsman Institution. There are no other suggestions. We vote. 35 present, all in favor. It's clear there's one and the other. I find that we have made a decision to bring together the debate on items 18 and 19 of the agenda. Ad. 18. Annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's 2017 Human Rights Institution, applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02-37-776/18, of 19. Three. 2018 and Ad. 19. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's Human Rights Institution for the year 2018, issue: 01-12-1-620/19 of 20. Three. 2019 I'm opening a debate. No reports have been reported. I'm concluding a debate on points 18 and 19. Before we move to the next point, I suggest that we bring together the debate on points 20 and 21 of the agenda, given that it is reports on the care of refugees and foreigners. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I suggest we make a statement on the pooling of debates for the 20th and 21st points of the agenda. 35 present – 34 for, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I find that we have united the debate at points 20 and 21. Ad. 20. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-2034/18 of 06. 09. 2018 and Ad. 21. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1916/19 of 04. 11. 2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6332	Thank you very much. Here I will try not to bother much with any discussions, the foundations of these reports and these points that are here, from the Special Report on the National and Sexual Structure of Employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's police and security agencies, to the state of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, the information of our ombudsmans, would be spoken of. I wanted to refer to a report relating to item 22 in the review of these materials, which speaks in the national structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Canton, such an interesting report of the Ombudsman Institution, which says – the Ministry of Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina canton – the Act of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Bosnia and Podrinjska Canton of 31.10.2017, the Ombudsmans for Human Rights are informed that in the total number, the number of men, the number of Bošnjak, is not included in the interior minister, so here writes the official, Bošnjak, the man. In addition, we note that Table 1 of the data for police officers does not fill the number of police officers relating to the VSS data, it is not filled, so it remains empty this section for the reason that according to the applicable Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the BPK Gorazde condition for filling the jobs of police officers is the possession of an act, not the school's preparation. Also, what is in this report, which is what I want to refer to, which is the national structure employed on 30 September 2017, so here we see that the total number of employees is 221, and I see that there are no Hrvat. When it comes to the national structure of the management workers on 30 September 2017, there are also 33 out of all Hrvat. Just reminders, when it comes to the Bosnian-Poninian canton, we have Mr. Edim Fejzić, an envoy at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, so I'm surprised if we have from that canton a person that we can choose them in the House of the Federation Parliament, is it possible that there is not one employee who, in any way, would have chosen him or be, in police structures or in some other institutions when it comes to the Bosnian-Porn canton. Here, thank you very much. I hope we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6333	Thank you. 38 Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, something like that, I'm going to continue on the trail that my colleague Krišto was telling me about. Namely, this is the Special Report, so it's good that we have it, is it, to save for the future when I get a chance to comment on some how Hrvat get what they don't belong to. So when we speak at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is visible from this that on average, there is, in a way, given the '91 census. For years, we have some satisfaction, and we can be, so I'm saying here on behalf of the members of the Croatian people, and it's not controversial, but our colleagues from the People's House, my colleagues Bakir, because he likes to say that we've brought more than we do, I'm going to see this report, and he's going to look at it a little bit in the Federation, so in the Federal MUP 9%, then in the Serbian 1%, then in the Slobodar Tuzla..., therefore, in the Unsko-Sanska 2%, and in the administrative part of 1.74%, then in the Freedomish Tuzla 4 comma, there's not 5%, the Women's Dobojka 16%, etc. So, let her look here and let her see here, in the Federation mostly, is a problem with respect to that constitutional provision on the '91 census. That's as much as we get, by the looks of it, as someone says. So, it's gonna be good for this report to track this situation, what it's going to look like and we know how to give the public a sense of how we enjoy some rights that don't belong to us, that we get beyond measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6335	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović. No more reports, closing the hearing. Before we move to the next point of 26, I suggest we unite the debates on points 26 to 32. Please follow this we tried consciously to speed up, it's the same debate, but if there's a mistake in correcting someone. So, from 26 to 32. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. All 37 in attendance voted yes. So we have a decision to unify points 26 to 32. Ad. 26. - ad 32. Reports on impact audits carried out I'm opening a debate. This is wrong, no one checked in. I'm closing the debate. Next, point 33. Before that, I suggest that we vote to unite the debate between points 33 and 34, it's about consolidated reports. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Please initiate voting procedure. We are voting on a proposal for unification on 33rd and 34th. Thank you. Of the 38 present 37 for, 1 abstention. We have a majority, general and entity. 39 Ad. 33. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-4422/19 of 07. Eight. 2019 and Ad. 34. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system in BiH institutions for 2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 01.02- 16-1423/19 of 07. Eight. 2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6364	Thank you, Chairman. I think more or less everything about this issue was said on Friday during a debate on the inclusion of the motion for a resolution on the agenda of the House's session. So, they have just been divided into MPs and final corrections that we have provided as a proposal, taking into account how much, that this issue is already listed on the third day of this session, that is to say, delaying the debate on this issue, and respecting certain comments, but the essential character remains exactly the same and if, of course, there is a need for debate, if the debate shows the need to, for further clarifications, I am, of course, at my disposal, but I think that more or less has already been said during the debate on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6365	Thank you. 47 Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6366	I'll see you later, Mr. President, first Mrs. Krišto, and then I'll do it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] An apology. I can do it right now, come on. Are you giving me your word?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6368	He's responding to everything, you've got the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6369	Okay, so I don't see the basis, so the Rules of Procedure have been broken, that the text of what we are discussing in the agenda is being changed in the course of the debate, so I will call on Article 163 cannot be found a basis for the new text of the Resolution. But I don't think I have any other way than to, through the Rules of Procedure and the article, it means, the 70th one that refers to the establishment of the agenda, this one, I can't, I can't suggest what I want. Namely, what was written in the text that we received when the item was included in the agenda was quite altered, which is seen from the proposaler's intention, when they were able to propose this new, new text of Resolution. That is why I propose, therefore, that it is now impossible to remove the agenda point, as you yourself said somewhere earlier when we have discussed one item of the agenda, I propose that the College, in an extended composition, meet to change the name of this agenda item, because it sets out the agenda, which could be read – a proposal for a decision to adopt resolutions, a declaration by the Council of Europe and the European Parliament concerning the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian regimes in the 20th century. So, under that title, we could discuss it then, and this is the event that was, at least in the original text, already finished, so it's pointless to discuss it in such a way and narrowly, and under this point we could discuss everything we wanted, therefore, and even these points that we tried several times, me and my colleague Kožul, put on the agenda in the previous term of 2016/2017. In order for the College in an extended composition, uh, to get a chance and a chance to meet and read about this proposal, I'm looking for a half-hour break and get a college position, whether it's possible or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6370	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6371	Thank you, Chairman. 48 Mr. Lovrinović is clearly looking for a new agenda point, the agenda has been established, therefore this is not allowed. And as for his comment that no corrections to the text are allowed, Article..., I believe that, as legislators, we can intervene on the text until the end of the debate, but even if the College does not take that position, Article 164(2) very clearly foresees – amendments to the proposed resolutions are submitted in writing during the session. And in that case this can be treated as one big amendment, or... not big, I mean, since the corrections are minimal, but as one comprehensive amendment to the original text. Therefore, the business provisions here are fully respected and there is no obstacle to today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6372	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6373	Break, break, break, break, break, break,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6374	Break. How much are you asking for a break, sir? 15 minutes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, 30 minutes break at the HDZ Club request. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 49 I see you have nothing to say to me, so I still think there was a standoff in Article 70 in determining the agenda, so it wasn't a suggestion to delete the agenda point, but to change its title. And since the College in the extended composition is the one that determines the agenda, it could, in my opinion, meet, therefore adopt, accept my proposal or some similar and propose to the House to declare the change of agenda. Since that was obviously not possible, you didn't call it, I don't know why, about that then, I will, of course, be forced to submit an amendment that will be delivered to you. Point 59 – Resolution on respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime is amended and reads: Decision to adopt the European Parliament's resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism. So my proposal is my amendment, therefore, on the name of a point which, behold, will be debated or eventually adopted, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6379	Please forward the amendment to the service. Mr. Arnaut, was the breach of the Rules of Procedure or was that left before?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6380	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6381	Now, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6382	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6384	Here, therefore, Rule 164 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states - Amendments to the proposed resolutions shall be submitted in writing during the session. We have tried to facilitate with the corrected texts which have essentially been consolidated in the text of the amendment, given the dilemmas we withdraw as a club, so, as well as the corrected texts and we are investing ten amendments to the proposed Resolution in full accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we have delivered these amendments to the procedure, as well as the consolidated text as to what it will look like if all amendments are adopted and I pray that we declare the amendments in the package if it is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6385	Thank you. I ask the service to share all amendments, so both these and HDZ and SNSD, that we have all of them. 50 Mr. Nermin Nikšić reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I didn't answer when the agenda was being established, although even then most colleagues and colleagues were talking about the essence, not the agenda proposal, and that's if I helped save time, I'm sorry that I'm going to take some time to say something about this resolution. I'm sorry that we didn't discuss it on Friday, and then I would say, uh, what I'm about to say now is that I don't have the ambition to interfere with the inner affairs of the Catholic Church and that it wasn't possible to prevent or prohibit the maintenance of the mass, that it was exclusively their decision, or the bishop's decision. If it were possible to appeal, that is clear and that is what I suppose was both the intensity and the promoter and what I would like to say in Parliament. I certainly believe, as is their right to maintain mass, so it is the right of those who had a second position, to say and express it both here in Parliament and in peaceful protests. I'm defeated that we are 75 years after World War II still in that period. The question is, when and how will we get to 1992-1995? and face the consequences of this war and aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the fact is that the sooner we face the truth and on one war and another, the sooner we will be able to turn to the future and create assumptions for normalising relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can't believe that 75 years after World War II, and after the whole world has established historical facts, only we at the premises of ex Yugoslavia, and especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina have some truth and are changing the thesis of who was actually on the winning side, on the side of the Allies, and who on the defeated side of the Osovina Force. We can now question all actions, including anti-fascist actions, no one and no one should be idealized and there were certain and those who committed crimes as anti-fascists, if it helps anyone, here, I apologize as an anti-fascist on their behalf and condemn any such crime. I wonder, will anyone stand out and fence from those who systematically committed crimes in concentration camps as servants of the occupiers or as followers of such Ustasha and Chetnic ideology? These days, as the actual story of the Mass is, I am bombarded with messages that send the names of Muslims who have performed numerous positions in the Quislin NDH, just as if it were possible for someone to reciprocate the crimes committed by the NDH regime because they were involved by Muslims. Well, gentlemen, this is not an ideological debate, on the one hand, of anti-fascists who believe that the patronage of the Hrvat Parliament and the maintenance of the Mass is an attempt to resionize history, and a pre-election marketing trick on the other, and those who support it by trying and thus earning some point and distracting attention from numerous affairs. I wonder – where does this lead us? Will we finally get the strength to face the truth, not leave our children to live again and live through what we've been through. When we don't have the strength to accept the historic facts of the 1941-1945 war that the whole world has admitted, how do we expect to do that when it comes to the 1992-1995 situation when we were some direct actors? I'm starring on Facebook, and whenever I need to get my statement out of the U.S.A., that there were people in the Republika Srpska and HVO who didn't commit crimes, as there were in the Army of those who did. That's why I want to say here publicly, I was demobilized as an army captain, I didn't work, I didn't support crimes, and it wasn't official politics, nor the commitment of the 51st Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but here I publicly apologize to all those who, as individuals or some army unit, committed crimes... who, as individuals or some army unit, committed crimes allegedly on behalf of my people or on my personal behalf. But I wonder fellow Members and colleagues, do you have the strength and I urge all of you to face each other and sincerely apologize for the work of members of military formations, allegedly on behalf of your people and your own. To accept the International Court's rulings and then try to turn after facing the truth to build mutual trust and respect for the principles that all those who have committed crimes must answer without equating or relativeizing anyone's guilt, but realize that it is important because of the future of our children to leave the past behind, let the judiciary do its job, and we build the future. If we're ready for it and we sincerely want it, then we can expect that there is hope for both us and Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we can run things from a dead end, everything else will leave us buried in our past, where each of us will still have its own truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6387	Thank you. Mr. Mijo Matanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6388	Dear colleagues and colleagues, state representatives, dear guests, if any, I welcome you all, and I congratulate the representatives of this agenda item on the proposed Resolution. And since I didn't think I'd get a chance to talk about these documents, that's all. events in my working life, in politics at all, I speak, and I will remind you of the 30 years of continuity in politics, of the 55th I count, I am given the opportunity and I will gladly say a few words about my definition of the default resolution and respect for the victim. Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state has always been interesting to conquerors, in the last five centuries four ruled by Ottomans, from 1463 to 1878 in Austria from 1878 to 1914 in the First World War, from 1918 to 1941 in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, from 1941 to 1945 in World War II, from 1945 to 1992 in the communist Yugoslavia, from 1992 to 1995 in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and from 1995 we live in the present, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina today. It's my source of Wikipedia, and I remember some of these facts from school material. All of these periods have been written about history, history or history, depending on the current regime from which the people are writers and for what needs. The subject matter of the Resolution is, I presuppose, for the period of World War II, not indicated, and according to the iconography of 16 May 2020 it is also current today. I ask the promoters – were all the other periods, which I said, ideal for all residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose is Bosnia and Herzegovina at all? The last acceptable definition, at least to me, is neither Muslim nor Serbian, nor Croatian, but also Muslim and Serbian and Croatian and all those who want to live in it. Whose is fascist or anti-fascist today is too important to support this proposed resolution. My smallness is not fascist, nor anti-fascist, but she has felt great hardships from each other. Thanks to fascism, I've lived without a father who was out of work, or the hardest in the country, since I was 55 years old, I've only lived five years with him when he came home once a year. And the merits of antifascism are that I grew up without both grandfathers, two uncles, sixty-six of my line of Svilian Matanović from forty families, this data can be checked in the book of the late Fr. Grga Vilić – the reflection of history or the reading of the Memorial Park on the monument of all Croatian victims of World War II and the pores in Posavia Mahali-munity of Odjak, where 3402 were written died by a total of ten thousand residents of the then-Odjak municipality and will be celebrated in Holy Mass on Monday 25 May of this year, following the prescribed measures by the headquarters. I was educated without scholarships, regularly of course, constantly marked and followed, without an offer of employment, and probably if democracy had not occurred, it would have ended up in a state that was fascist, this under quotes. In the family I am raised to love and to hate no one, regardless of any division today, in the church, the same one that you are persecuting and demeaning, that I can appreciate, respect and not judge, and that in school I learn and that I know how to apply knowledge in life and be useful to my family, to my people, and to everyone in the community and to the state. I also want to say that I live with my family on the street of the greatest criminal of my Croatian people, Tito, who is still called today. I support this statement by writing from British Daily Mail 2014, where it is mentioned in 13th place of the ranking of the worst mass murderers of the 20th century. His command “to disprove all participants of the Bleiburg tragedy for Yugoslavia to live” speaks of the cruelty of the crime then, and denying today. I am afraid of anti-fascist messages and threats to the model Kardinal and through him and the Catholic regiment of BiH, they should continue to be persecuted from Sarajevo for BiH to live, and let us remember that almost the same Catholics and Muslims lived in Sarajevo from the beginning of the last century. Without false modesty all my life my only imperative was to be, to remain human, to look optimistic and work for the good of everyone. Fascists could not be, and be such an anti-fascist as these appear during the period of mass of 16 May or in madness, because the signs they wore in the form of five-pointers were worn by those I already told of after World War II and their crimes that were filled with caves throughout Slovenia and Croatia, under the same sign crashed Vukovar and Dubrovnik, and 1500 days shelled Sarajevo. I'm done. Because of everything mentioned in this exhibit of mine, and especially with a tending proposal from the Proposer to one segment of crime in our bloody history, I will not support this text of Resolution, or any other attempt that would serve for one-day political purposes. I regret that because of these measures caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, I did not attend the Holy Mass on that intention. And for the record, it's true hate speech for those who live in a lie. With respect to all victims of totalitarian regimes, including those mentioned in this rezulocija, and especially the victims of communism that I must not even say are victims, nor pray for them, I will not support the resolution, and you dear colleagues and colleagues on your conscience.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6389	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Borjana Krišto, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6390	Thank you. I don't know what because we've already talked a lot about this agenda point and through the public debate, of course I respect all the distinguished representatives, regardless of which party, from which people we came from, when it comes to the memory and memory of any sacrifice of all totalitarian regimes, I join such ones, and I want to do all that in the interest of which I am 53 raised and in the interest of our common future, etc. And the preservation of actually the historical truth that is needed for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be better in the future. But I'm going to start here from what I tried last time, so this hack on any media, either through, and through, specifically, through these motions of resolutions and through, so this House is a provocation and an attempt to rehabilitate the constitution, which is actually an insult to religious rituals, a restriction of freedom of religion in which the right to serve the Holy Mass is contained for the dead and a violation of fundamental human freedoms, and thus an attempt to ban the memory of innocent victims. When you look at this and what these resolutions are called upon, we see that there is a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, the provisions of the Constitution of BiH, as well as a basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See. In the Parliamentary Assembly, then, here in front of this House is a resolution that says in the name of respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime, and the background is something else, i.e. the mass that was served as victims of innocent deaths on the Bleiburg Crossway. Even in the motion for a resolution, you saw the mass being called so-called. Gentlemen, those who are believers, especially those who fast, so who have called on them to be offended by certain things, the Holy Mass deserves one dignity, so I will also remind you of the Treaty between BiH and the svet stolica in which Article 7 says -- BiH guarantees the Catholic Church freedom of worship, BiH guarantees the inviolability of a place for worship, which is a church, chapel, and additional church spaces. These resolutions mention the maintenance of the Mass and the prevention of Mass and talk about the maintenance of the Bleiburg Mass. Gentlemen, Masses are not held for Bleiburg, I remind you once again all of you here, and I hope that a good part of you are believers, practical believers, and all of us faith teaches that we love and we are proud, and that we respect others. Here the Holy Mass has its intention and it is maintained, I repeat, for innocent victims and for the rest of the soul of anyone and she has her intention, she does not keep herself for any event, she does not implicate, she does not speak any messages about that sacred mass, so she just decides the Catholic Church. Here in the Resolution that you have changed, you are saying to ask the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to convene a mixed committee set up in Article 18. The basic contract, I don't see any way that there's anything in here that mixed committee to do, because Article 18. The contract between BiH and the Holy See says -- BiH and the Holy See will, in mutual agreement, resolve all the doubts and difficulties that could arise with regard to the interpretation or observation of the provisions of this Treaty. I don't see any injury or ambiguity being mentioned here, and all it has is jurisdiction, so one and the other, because it's an international agreement. You're still in, you're clearly talking about all the way these resolutions were proposed, one, the other, some sort of text, so today in private while the agenda was due, some third resolution is proposed. Well, I'm asking, so now to justify that, let's do business, let's do the amendment, so it's said that the third resolution is now respecting the victims of fascist regimes and movements. I'm asking, here's the promoter - is that meant by the Chetnik movement? Here in paragraph (2) says -- it is required from the BiH presidency, the foreign ministry to inform the Republic of Croatia that any events related to Blyburg in BiH are unacceptable for BiH. And it's about the mass in the preceding article to be reconsidered. What does Mass have to do with any event, what does Mass have to do with certain events of any church event, that I don't go back to it? The third item in this Resolution says - expressing condolences to all descendants of the victims of the Ustasha regime. And above, he says, respecting the victims of fascist regimes and movements. 54 You have been left behind, or your goal is something else, and we all know it here, and I ask: Is there a lack of compassion and the sacrifices of the Chetnik regime, whether it is thought of honoring the descendants and those sacrifices? So I want to say, given that we have a short period of time, this is really a blow and an attack on the autonomy of the Catholic Church, on religious freedoms, on the feelings of both individuals and the entire Croatian people, and of course it is all for the purpose, because in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this Parliament we have no more important topics so as not to talk about other affairs, as I have said to the respirators and diplomas and other illegalities that this House brings, so the best topic is the one we have chosen today. It's an honor to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6391	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6392	Thank you, Chairman. So, just to clarify some things, uh, taking into account some of the remarks that have been made, that, that the Ustashas were the movement first, and then the regime, I think it's necessary to underline, therefore, that we had the Ustasha movement, which then became the Ustasha regime and that's something that Mrs. Krišto should know anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6393	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Mektić, discussion. Mr. Mektić, you have your word, he can't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6394	Thank you, Chairman. I personally think that this resolution is good, that it should be supported and I would no longer speak of it, except that I also think that only the cover-up of these fascist crimes is their cover-up and destruction of the evidence that existed and that we had, as well, another crime against these victims, and therefore I propose one amendment, which reads: The condemnation of the handover of the Jasenovo building by the government in Republika Srpska estranged and handed over to the Republic of Croatia, leaving the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina without a valuable historic building on the crimes of the Independent State of Croatia against Srbin, Jevrej, Rom and other anti-fascistsists in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I say I still think it's worth it and that the victims didn't deserve it, because we now don't have a huge amount of historical building on these crimes, and we've allowed all those who disputed these crimes to bid and with what was happening, to say so, first of all, in Jasenovac, to bid on victims, and this is as much as possible that this 55 resolution, or declaration, of a resolution of pardon, is being brought into service on behalf of these victims who have also been killed by the Ustasha regime. Thank you. Please take this and share it with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6395	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, chairman, counterpart Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6396	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. I understand that we have different opinions, and I understand why we had a heated discussion, but I don't understand that someone is answering and talking about something that they really don't know anything about. The false allegation refers to what Mr. Mektić suggested. So, you have to have insight into the archival structure that he's talking about, which isn't just archival, but also some other one, and give estimates that it's a huge amount, a huge damage, that we've lost anyone for whatever else. He has the right to Mr. Mektić and his Club to make such an amendment, but I must say that it is a very small amount of construction that you are talking about, that this building may be in some basements, but that we have microfilms all, obtained and officially and unofficially, that it is much more constructed and much more significant, but I am now saying this as an expert, is in the archives of Republika Srpska in Banja Luka, that much more is being built, of Jasenovac, in Gradina, about the system of Ustatic camps located in the Museum of Genocide in Belgrade, at the Museum of Yugoslavia in Belgrade, in the archive of Yugoslavia in Belgrade. So what you said is incorrect, small amount of construction was taken away then, much less value, I claim it professionally because I know what an archival document is, rather than all of what I've listed for you. So, your amendment proposal is incorrect, and that's all I've said about it, and he, of course, applies as an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6397	I thank my colleague Radmanović. We're going to the hearing, representative Darijana Filipović. We have a correction to the wrong allegations, so my apology to the MPs, Dragan Mektić, is a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6398	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm glad you admitted it was done. And it's understandable to me that you're trying to sort of justify it by reducing, to say, the whole of this mess that's been done. When you talk about microfilms etc., I mean here on the original, original historical structure that I don't know for what reasons, I can assume but those assumptions I wouldn't now be saying, I guess you wouldn't like to hear them either, uh, and so talk about it being, but that's not so much, that it's little, I don't think it makes any sense, and I say once again, and I think it's that way, that's how those victims were once again murdered and humiliated. When I talk about the Ustasha regime and their crimes, there can be a question here why Jasenovac, but because Jasenovac is the biggest crime of the Ustasha regime NDH. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6399	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Something Mr. Mektić and Mr. Nikšić said. Convince me, Mr. Mektić that there's nothing in Belgrade to do with this, please assure me. You know how much I trust you? And the other thing, therefore, is the Ustasha regime and the crimes committed by the Independent State of Croatia, and for 50 years it has been said, there is no more to be said for the smallest details. Here, I won't argue that there's nothing more to be said, I won't argue with that. If there is, then state, that there is something, but the crimes of the communist regime and partisan were not spoken because they were not allowed to speak. So that's why I'm against this name point, I'm talking about crimes, I'm talking about fascism, and totalitarian regimes, about all their crimes, I don't mind, but even here's the NDH that hasn't been carried out so far in these 50 years. It's just that you can't convince me that everything that's been presented has not been expressed, and if anything else has been hidden, I apologize to both the victims and someone you might have hurt with this kind of expression, I have no intention, but I'm sure it's been said, not about NDH, about the Ustasha regime and about a lot of other things that the fascists have done, it's probably everything, but nothing has been said about the communists. That's why I suggest changing the agenda point, so I suggest we talk about all the crimes and totalitarian regimes, but you won't, you won't. Well, then I'm just experiencing this story, so I'm not being rude again, so it's just that there's a truth that shouldn't have been known. This truth is mostly known, mostly knowing, only maybe someone won't or won't, so in someone's opinion, that now, I'm not getting into it. And Mr. Nikšić, therefore, you said, uh, something about maintaining the Mass, etc., so this Parliament has no right under the provisions of the treaty presented by Mrs. Krišto to discuss the Mass, the purpose of the Mass. There is no right to any state body of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not this state, but anywhere where the Vatican has an agreement with them. The purpose of the Mass is such, it has the right to discuss other events that were not at all, about the Mass, and you can discuss the Mass, so. Here, call the Pope if he won't come here again, for the third time, or ask him here what the Cardinal held the mass, what mass he held, etc. So, there is no, in this proposed resolution, and even in this new text is again the story of the Mass, of the matter of maintaining the Mass for Bleiburg. What kind of questions? You saw the Mass if you watched, you heard the Mass, what would you ask? Misa had an intention for innocent, unjustly shot and murdered victims and nothing else, nothing else. And, therefore, you must know that and therefore, it is not acceptable. And as for the apology, I apologize another sentence, President, which, therefore, concerns an apology, if that's enough now, you've said – I sincerely apologize for the crimes that are committed, here, and I sincerely apologize for the crimes that are committed by members of the HVO to someone, frankly, if you believe it. If that's what it is, here, I sincerely apologize, if it will solve all our problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6401	57 I thank MP Lovrinović. Correction of the wrong allegations, chaired by Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6402	I didn't believe, ladies and gentlemen, that I would have to talk about things like this in this House, but I simply have to react to, for the ignorance of a sentence. Everyone who understands a little knows that museums are mostly not original structures, as Mr. Mektić says. There are copies of the documents in the museums, and now whenever you enter any museum, you will rarely find the original and this, in this huge amount that Mr. Mektić is talking about only 2% of the originals, we know exactly what kind of ones. What was taken away, which was in Banja Luka, was from the Jasenovac Museum and these were 98% copies. What was taken away wasn't all copies. So don't talk about huge quantities, and you don't know what it's about. And what the original is back in the microfilms, and we know what it is, we've made copies of it before that. I can tell you what it's all about, I just don't understand why people talk about something they don't know anything about. Why don't they ask first, ask around, get information and then comment. So it's completely wrong for you to approach it, and I know who's still talking about it, but we haven't, see, we're still determined to tell them what they don't know, so it's wrong and your suggestion to conclude, if that's the conclusion you sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6403	Thank you, Chairman. Correction of the wrong alleged representative Nermin Nikšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6404	Thank you. So, Mr. Lovrinović, and that's, well, the first step has been taken, and here's to admit and that there have been these crimes and that you apologize, I believe it's sincere. But please, I write thesis so I don't break the deadline that we have since there are limited discussions, that I don't... And, here, I'm going to repeat these two thesis that I said, to tell me where I mentioned it that, I just said the opposite of what you corrected me, as my guilty quote. I said I was sorry that we didn't debate on Friday because I would say that we don't have the ambition to interfere with the inner affairs of the Catholic Church and that it's not possible to prevent or prohibit it, that it's exclusively their, or the bishop's decision and that it's possible to appeal, but not to prohibit maintenance. I just said the opposite of what you've corrected as my guilty quote, but here, let's make it all a minor problem. I'm glad we took the first steps and we'll be ready to deal with these things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6405	Thank you, Mr. Nikšić. Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6406	Well, I am truly sorry to say this in the BiH Parliament or I don't know either, if it's who's to say that I'm trying to help Radmanović because of these events, unfortunately, I know enough. First of all, let me refer to Mr. Lovrinović's escape from the metrics of the mass, which is, you'll admit, fine. No Niko, and those who initially misread it, is no longer concerned with the measure of mass, and the question of a valuable system is what it is dedicated to, because what I can't swallow is what it says on the monument of these same victims, means - in honor and glory, I don't recognize the honor and glory of it, but I say, the metric mass, the value system, we don't get involved in it, everyone has their own perception. Niko one touches the mass, and I think that's what's left of it and that's what's supposed to be going on. As far as the Jasenian building is concerned, here, Mr. Mektić, I'm someone who must have been against her ending up in Washington. And I retati you why, because I didn't have the strength, I suggested we steal it, not to give it to anyone, because that jasenovo building that ended in Washington was built from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which was then more powerful than we were. Republika Srpska didn't ask anything, SFOR was breaking into every office, taking whatever it wanted, we received information that it, that it would fall in and take away what was owned by the Republic of Croatia, a city that was created in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what deeply hurt us. Whether I was right or wrong, it doesn't matter. So someone estimated that it was better to go to the Holocaust Museum and that it would be preserved in Washington and those copies from the Holocaust Museum are in Belgrade at the Genocide Museum and in our Archives, what Mr. Radmanović is saying. So it's about building from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, not from Old Town, not from Dubica, not from... It's not supposed to be a subject, it's a pain in the ass. Now it turns out it's better than it ended up in Croatia because we from Croatia certainly wouldn't get those microfilms like the Holocaust Museum run by the Jewish community and those who built the center... But it's not a subject, and it has nothing to do with this resolution about condemning victims of the Ustasha regime or trying to change it into... motions and regimes, let's save it for..., let's see, and let's let a little bit of that... I'm telling you this as someone who's a witness and a participant and who's been a lot worse than you are when it comes to it, but these are facts and these are facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6407	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Darijana Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6408	I would like to thank the Honorable President, and I would like to welcome you, the Vice-President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In fact, without wanting to repeat the argument of my colleagues from the Club, who had tried to point to certain things on Friday and today, I do not think it is too much to react to some statements that have been made in the past days and in the media and on Friday about the debate on the agenda, by my personal conviction, deeply wronged and for whatever reason they were spoken for, 59 whether they were ignorance or misunderstanding of some postulates of the Catholic Church or had malicious tendencies. Covering all these things would take a long way and more time than we have here today under these time limits, so I think it's important that I send three messages today. First, fascism has appeared in different forms in the past, the nazim most thought of when it comes to fascism and communism as its second form, in my opinion, are two sides of the same medals, i.e. the two forms of totalitarian regimes and as such are recognized, characterised and condemned in modern European societies through various declarations and resolutions of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament. For a simple and simple reason, because of the visible characteristics of both regimes, which is that they were both founded and formed and guided by not democratic values of inclusiveness and respect and compromise, but entirely contrary to the values of dictatorship, violence that later resulted in crimes. It is therefore inadmissible and completely inappropriate, as we have seen in recent days, with this time-out, and you have mentioned 75-year-old predecessors, to condemn one crime, one totalitarianism, and to justify other crimes, another totalitarianism, or to give courts, to judge and evaluate which victims it is appropriate to pray for, and for which it is not. Secondly, the maintenance of the Holy Mass, my predecessors said, as a religious, Catholic, canonical, proper ritual, was protected by the fundamental principles of democratic societies on freedom of religion and in a general declaration of the rights of man to the UN and in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. Once again, celebrating the Holy Mass for the souls of the victims of the Bleibur tragedy is maliciously putting in any other context which is not and connecting it with these or those totalitarian regimes, regardless of what some virtues, convictions of fascist victims are in the process, do not change that fact that it is entirely wrong. Therefore, if anything should be condemned, then it is not necessary to condemn the maintenance of sacred Masses for these or for those reasons, but only the politicization of the maintenance of sacred Masses should be condemned. Third, I cannot not react to the increasingly visible phenomenon of extremism and militism in the political public discourse that has been created these days, and all with the same occasion, even from the country's top political officials. In particular, I find this important, because it is not about individual phenomena, but about increasingly constant accounting with those who do not think the same as some, so it is not about public discourse from the use of offensive statements and the stigmatization and labelling of an entire religious one, and in Sarajevo minority, and the labelling of an entire nation, meaning I am talking about Catholics, about the Croatian people, reviling them directly or indirectly to call them fascists. Now it can be for various reasons, I said, however, the outcome was the same as not understanding, whether it was malicious tendencies, that focus should be shifted from the important things that are happening in this Bosnian-Herzegovina society and shifted from various affairs that we have witnessed in the past. In conclusion, some forms of fascism have been defeated in the past, but the narrative of fascism clearly exists today and is most visible to me in the continuous creation of tensions and conflicts and the need to constantly create internal and external enemies. So instead of continuing our wars against fascisms that have long been defeated in the past, it seems to me that today it is more important to fight all the totalitarianisms that defend fundamental religious freedoms. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6409	Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6410	Very briefly, I'm going to ask these debaters some of whom someone else writes the text, to practice it at home, brother, and to come here and read faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6411	Mr. Predrag Kožul, regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6412	My colleagues and colleagues. I mean, even though I said on Friday that the resolution we are discussing today for me as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hrvat and Catholics is deeply offensive. It seems to me that it is good to discuss it here today after 1605, after the Holy Mass was held and after everyone who was interested in it, and pure hearts and without unnecessary acuity could see the tone, expression and character of the Holy Mass, but he could see the tone and expression of the street that protested against this, the maintenance of the Holy Mass. So we saw antifascists threatening ISIL methods and we saw everything, as one television show or series says - two different worlds. It's good for another reason that we have a chance to argue here. It seems to me that, here, me and my colleague, Lovrinović, we can remind this Parliament on August 2016 and August 2017 when, as representatives of the previous call of this Parliament, we have tried to put on the agenda the relevant resolutions of the European institutions, the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, which concern the clear position of these European institutions and Europe together, and we are members of the Council of Europe, on all the totalitarian European regimes of the 20th century, and on Nazism and fascism and communism, i.e. the communist regime. I will remind you again of two points in Council of Europe Resolution 1481 of 2006. – The Parliamentary Assembly strongly condemns a mass violation of human rights by totalitarian communist regimes and expresses its condolences, understanding and recognition to the victims of these crimes. It also calls on all communist and post-Communist parties to make clear in their countries that if they have not re-evaluated the history of communism and their own past, the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes and that they are condemned without any ambiguity. I dare say that no one relevant in Bosnia and Herzegovina's social and political life, the former Yugoslavia, Europe, is behind the symbolic and ideologies of fascist and Nazi regimes. There are margins, marginal individuals and groups that flirt and provoke both with symbols and with ideology, but these groups are marginal and are not worth mentioning, and, by the way, let it be heard—the more west, the stronger they are. But there is no force in Bosnia and Herzegovina's society, nor in this Parliament to clearly distance ourselves from the crimes committed by the communist regime. There is no such need for distance or distance between antifascism and the communist regime. 61 In this context, a few words about the marking of the Bleibur tragedy and what lies in it. Bleiburg really isn't in the front row of the site, it's in symbol. On the Bleiburg field itself, there were smaller even military conflicts and slightly fewer victims, but it was the British stance that those who came to Bleiburg, soldiers and civilians were extradited to the Partisans. Blajburg is therefore merely a symbol of the circumstances of all those sites and of all the places where far more mass and cruel crimes took place, on the way to Bleiburg, and especially on the way back from Bleiburg. These crimes took place over a thousandkm, all in one direction to the Romanian border, in another direction towards Macedonia and the Bulgarian border, and the largest number of crimes were committed in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the report from the Commission of the Government of Slovenia in the area of the Republic of Slovenia, there are 642 strategists with victims on the fifth and sixth months of 1945. I will mention the greatest of him, "Woe, the horn of Kočev, the pit of hud, the Cave of Pečnik." A few, one quote small – the massacre in Tezno marks the slaughter committed by the members...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6413	A little time to think, Mr. Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6414	17th Division 3. ...I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6415	A little time to look at your monitor. You're out of time. I didn't mean to interrupt right away, but here...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6416	You're going to break me up at tezni, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6417	You have to bring the end, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6418	I'll read this to you, and later on in another business, through other business opportunities, and I'll end up. The massacre in Tezno marks the slaughter committed by members of the 17th Division 3. Yugoslav armies between 19th and 26th May 1945 in Tezno. Without trial, civilians and soldiers of Ustasha Domobran and in a small number of Chetnik and German troops were mass-killed. The perpetrator of the crime was the largest Yugoslav state and military peak. The massacre was organized by MARK 3. The Yugoslav armies, and the executioners were members of the May 15th brigade. They tied their hands to the prisoners with wire, drove them to the trucks from the gathering camps around Maribor. All of them were liquidated with firearms from close proximity, and after the liquidation, members of the Yugoslav army of the victims were poured with lime, and when the lime disappeared, tar. Excuse me, I'll continue later within the business opportunities I have.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6419	Thank you. Ms. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, discussion. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6420	Dear Chairman, thank you very much. Here, at the beginning of my discussion, I'd like to express my first disdain when we're at large thanks to, I'm going to call it, dilettant and superficial, thanks to the dilettant and superficial approach, the traumatic issues from our past for daily-political purposes, so we're even forced to work like this and to discuss on the basis of completely unquality materials that I've, here, and last time I've said something. I'm sorry, here, I'm really sorry that we're on the chance, and today we've also had a chance to see one, I don't know, full absence of targeted action, even on the basis of this originally unquality material, so here we have, I think it's a unique case that in two, three days you have a proprietor with two different materials and a third day that comes with amendments to that first or second material. Since we have proposed amendments, I warn that our amendments are written on the material that was shared with us yesterday, so, if you can, if you will follow me, it's easier for you. What also bothers me, and I think that last time and something about it I said, although I was very emotionally upset, that in the background of using this generally accepted narrative, quasi-European, about multiculturality, about co-existence, about traditions generally accepted, there is a single pie, a very, but very fundamental revision of historical facts, establishing some new relations and qualifications as we have had opportunities and what opportunities we have to see through the text of this original or text proposed Resolution. So, hiding and hiding real and criminal and criminal, but also concealing and clouding the facts about the real victims and the character of that victim. I really try to try, when I think, when I act, when I draw conclusions, when I speak, to use quality terms, because wherever you don't use a quality term in thinking or in discussion, in conclusions, you will inevitably, in such logical reasoning, either draw a wrong conclusion or enter into a problem. So I think, unfortunately, we're like, let's say the community that lives in this space missed maybe a period of peace in the world, it's a period after World War II, to call some things real names. I can say that I have a certain amount of understanding for the authorities at the time, probably people believed and thought that brotherhood and unity could be implemented by clouding such facts. I think it would have been much smarter and it was much smarter for us all if we had really been open and on the basis of facts and proper qualifications talking about all our traumas, including, here, the traumas that, let's say, and the members of my people made to other peoples or that members of one, the other and the third movement made to each other. I'll illustrate it with two painful examples of me. I grew up in the immediate vicinity, and now I live, the settlements of Banja Luka called Drakulići, where on February 7, 1942, with cold weapons, means knives between 7 hours and 14 hours, so, in a very short period of time, 12 hours, is that so, I don't know, maybe I miscalculated, less even, killed 2,315 women, children and old people, mostly elderly, of whom the name entered in the memorial church 551 child under 14. Why do I bring this up? Because the monument, which only in the 1960s, lists these victims with such a cloudy term, which was created by some concrete, I don't know, house, something like that with a five-point star, and it's written that they are victims of fascist terror. In second place, in the Gravice that we unfortunately had the opportunity to listen to these days, the monument was erected, mentioning the park in 1981, we had the opportunity to see 63 unfortunately trying there and some minor music festivals now to make, uh, there insisted on using the term that they suffered there, those 12,000 Srbin, that they were some kind of patriots. I mean, they were probably patriots, but they were primarily killed because they had a certain belonging to a nation, specifically to a Serb. I don't think that's good for us, but I've spoken in that light because we've been proposed a resolution on respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime. We believe that if we go in the direction of this resolution, then the victims must qualify properly, but also the anti-fascist movement. Still, I'm finishing up, you've got ours, our amendments, our colleagues, maybe if we need more clarification. And one more thing to mention, specifically what we, representatives of Republika Srpska, had to say about it, we said through the NDH Genocide Declaration adopted at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska in 2015, it was shared to you, but here, if we go in the direction of this document, our amendments are shared and I ask you for understanding and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6421	Mr. Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6422	Chairman, I will correct the wrong assumption contained in the resolution itself, and as regards the patronage of the Croatian Parliament over, here, mass, so to speak, in Sarajevo. The Council of the Republic of Croatia for the past 25 years has been the sponsor of all, all of what concerns the marking of the Bleibur tragedy, and the last few years the Croatian National Assembly of BiH, as well as events or all about the marking of the tragedy has been taking place throughout all those years in four countries, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia and BiH, and it has never been a problem until Sarajevo this year. Why is that? Why are we not bothered or bothered by the permanent institutional and non-institutional presence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in one part of our country? Well, I don't mind either. Why do we not mind the constant presence of Arab foundations and states in BiH in different ways? Why do we not mind leaving the BiH amanet to the Turkish president or the rude interference of BiH embassies in the most banal aspects of public life in BiH or ultimately why do we not mind foreign judges in the BiH Constitutional Court, and the Republic of Croatia is always a red cloth? I can't understand this almost hysterical need to condemn everything about the Republic of Croatia and I won't be that sociologist amateur, I'm just going to tell you, here's a story I've heard from a smart man in my neighborhood, who when they told him that a man is loose or speaking ill of him -- I don't know what he hates, I didn't help him in his life. The fact is that there are individuals as individuals, and in a collective, it is a characteristic that you hate the one who helped you or helped you the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6423	Mr. Nenad Stevandić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6424	Thank you very much. 64 Dear colleagues, the Independent State of Croatia included Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory at a time when it existed as a third Reich's satellite of force. Some volunteers, some by order, were involved, but the state had constitutional and racial laws, these racial laws made it clear that primarily Srbin, Jevrej and Rom were deprived of all rights, the state's strategy was "a third to kill, a third to catalyze and a third to banish" and that's what the regime is called. Members of military formations who spent four years, who had the only concentration camps for children in Europe and who, to say the words, represented the pillar of the state in the military and the police were killed, suffered from kočevski rog, according to counterpart Kožul, to Blajburg, some in the struggles, some as prisoners, are a historical fact. It is incomparable to honor them or those they have killed, there is a moral difference, but not to think that I deny them the mention of the Mass, I say that my deepest respect for the Banja Luka bishop Alfred Pihler who gave the name Fr. Mastorović Filipović who killed children in Dracula was "the friar of Satan", who gave lectures both in Zagreb and who was first publicly fenced, condemned and apologized to Srbin for the religious leaders of Catholic officials. So there were each other everywhere. I'm someone who didn't go well in the sense that his family is in communism, no matter what I'm from the Drava, so I've had my trauma and I've suffered, and I have to tell you that communists no matter how we baptize that movement totalitarian, etc. They were anti-fascists and that even there was a clear limit, the communists were anti-fascists. In ideological terms, we can talk about totalitarian regimes and don't mix it with antifascism. The antifascism of the communist movement was undeniable, no matter how much I'm not his fan, so it's a historical fact. Do not deny anyone the right to religious dates, customs, I say is a matter of value to whom they are dedicated. I want to tell you that what we added to the scale of this document, which has been repeatedly changed, is about that first, or second text, I don't even know how many of them you have anymore, which was the resolution on respecting the victims of the Ustasha regime. Is what was on the subject last week not related to other events and other historical dates, but to the Ustasha regime. Now it's been rewritten to the Resolution on respect for victims of fascist regimes and movements, so letFrankov add Franko to the sentence. If you started something with flirting, then you put yourself in a position that it was very difficult to swallow and support, especially what was so many times changed and massacred. We've been fine-armed and last time and we've been abstentioned by getting into the mass measure, forbidding any people to perform mass, but it's unacceptable now that in this way, since I'm from that family, I've explained to you and who I am and what I thought, no matter what, that in this way you're throwing out victims of the Ustasha regime, and I'm going to tell you from the Earth Commission in '46. to, to be fair, also from Viktor Novak, a prominent Croatian publicist who was close to the Catholic Church or books that later wrote about, Barbarship in the name of Christ, Živojinović and Lučić, about Lučić, Rat and children Kozara 14,000 names from Dubica and the environment, under 10 years of children whose eyes were carried by Pavelić. I can't leave this value system, I can't say harsh words to insult someone, but you have to understand, I'm in that value system, and these are victims of the Ustasha regime, and that's the regime that had the judiciary, the military, the police, the laws of war -- to kill, banish or baptize. And that's why, what we said last time, the Declaration on the Genocide of the Independent State of Croatia over Srbin, Jews and Rom during World War II is the real name, because it says in the documents of the independent state of Croatia, neither the citizens of Croatia nor Serbia nor Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it refers to Srbin, Jevrej and Roma. That, gentlemen, is the problem with changing the title of this Resolution and that's the problem that you're flirting with politically, let's say, the variations who will or won't support us have brought us into such an ugly position. There you are. I apologize in broken time. I'll refer in another way. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6425	Mr. Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong quote, but please be correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6426	Yes, my colleague Stevandić mentioned kočevski horn, I will add that kočevski horn is the largest site in the Republic of Slovenia where the victims were killed from 28 May to 9 June 1945. This 28th May is a premise, as Tito was in Ljubljana on 28 May, draws the line under previous killings and makes it all the way to the end. Afterwards, I would like you to read, whoever is interested in this topic, the light testimony of Sima Dubaić, who was headed by the killer's squad in Kočevsky Horn and who was probably pressured by his conscience before the end of his life, spoke in detail and extensively about the crimes in Kočevsky Horn. The two liquids of the legal gain of civilization Europe and the modern world are the presummation of innocence and not the justice of crime by another crime, we need to know clearly here in this context, and that is why the Holy Mass is the ultimate act of the Catholic Church as a prayer of the mass of the Chorus for all the victims and all the souls. And I would end with this call, and my colleague, Lovirnović, will certainly, if not the whole club again in August of this year, offer these European Parliament and Council of Europe resolutions that this Parliament, in good faith, pure hearts and good intentions, accept them as its own and condemn all totalitarianism and this space and the whole of Europe, I hope that this whole debate will help us to truly accept these resolutions as our own.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6427	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, a little bit in the introduction around the Mass, I'm just going to say that the position of the Civil Protection Staff and that there were twenty people at Mass, and that thousands went without any protection, and I asked the Department of Security question -- who is the organizer, what did he want with it, why did they not follow the measures, how many people were punished, will they be punished even when? As for the Mass, too, Mr. Cardinal has received a series of, therefore, support except for us, so that this could now be considered a degutant, politician, let's say from one of the writers from the Bosniak people, Vladimir Bogdanić of Židov from Zagreb, people from P.E.N. The four of them left P.E.N. The center because he supported these so-called. Antifascists, including three founders, etc. etc. But first, we didn't want to at all, and it's very awkward for us to talk about the material that was proposed, and that's why we asked to change the name of the agenda point so we could talk. What is the intention, therefore, of proposing the points of such and Resolution as it is offered? Is this the intention of hiding the affairs that Mrs. Krišto has been talking about these days, which some parties are in, where their colleagues are sitting here with and with us, or is it a desire to discipline our Croatian representatives, is to keep us silent not only about this, but about a lot of things, is that we would carry this burden, which I know, this crime on ourselves, on us, and we simply have nothing to talk about, but to sit here as a mummy. If it is, and probably it is a mixed feeling, I will just say the following, therefore, that I, or I, reject such a kind of guilt, so I bear no blame, nor the Croatian people for what the Ustashas did in World War II and what the criminals did. I remind you that the Independent State of Croatia is not founded by democratic elections, as Mr Stevandić said, the Quislin regime like any other regime in Europe, you want me to list you, both in Serbia and in Norway and France, therefore, it was not an expression of the will of the Croatian people in any election. It is known what our expression of democratic will was, so some 28 were killed, so some couldn't get into power, etc. etc. Let's not waste that time. If Sara's anti-fascist scales are constantly potent, then I don't know what to prove anymore, I don't know what to prove to a holy mass and 20 people on a sacred mass. The anti-fascists got up, imagine an anti-fascist, well said Mrs. Bursać, let's see who the victims were, let's see who was killing, see who was in power, who was in what kind of troops, in civil authorities, in many ways, so let's see who was doing what, if you want to carry a burden like we carry. If, then, one part of you probably thinks there and says so, guilty, so what preceded this, etc. I remind myself again of what Mr. Kožul was saying, if it were all people trapped, committed and not tried, we might have precious build, and civilians in person, and I'm talking about military troops. If you got them on a gift, if the communists, the partisans got them, which they didn't judge and judge as some did by shooting death, then they'd have some kind of structure, where they were, what they were doing, who they were, they didn't want the truth, so if they were criminals. And for those of you who don't know what's going on, at the very least, I recommend a documentary film, an American film, "Blajburg: Tito's Genocide License". Since there were civilians there, there were a lot of civilians, you'll see from that movie or some other movies, if you want to watch it, you'll see, so what happened and what happened, as if it was intended to be a seed watch, as they would say. Maybe it was revenge, maybe it was. Is that an excuse? So, tomorrow, will you propose a resolution that all members of the Republika Srpska Army should be shot or killed for some of the crimes being committed by Mr. Nikšić, the HVO? What does that mean, what does that mean for the judiciary as a science at all? What does that even mean to get a second chance if it's an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, an old Bible... I, therefore, then it's okay, so you should kill everyone who did whatever you did should kill him immediately, etc. I can't agree with that, and I can't agree with that one more time, so I reject the kind of guilt you want to impose on us and because we propose and amend this title, what we said, because of the insults you've done here, and since the Rules of Procedure intend to put the resolution right behind us at the vote of the Croatian People's Club will, at this moment, leave what you're doing to us colleagues, especially from the parliamentary majority, because this will probably be adopted, it won't be adopted, what you want to place on our shoulders the responsibility and guilt that doesn't belong to us, we will leave and we won't be sitting in this, this time, at this session, we won't vote on any part of the agenda. I think it's brazen and rude to do, I think that some, especially from the parliamentary majority, have allowed us to do this without any order or purpose. We proposed as people to discuss all the crimes, you didn't want to accept it. Thank you very much, for the shame of all those who did this. Thank you very much, and we're leaving the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6429	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry it's coming to this, we could have predicted at the beginning of the problem, but we have to keep working. I'd like to talk to you for a minute. Mr. Arnaut, what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure now? 67
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6430	...is that right? Since Article 164(3) says – when the debate on resolution
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6431	Okay, well, don't even let me tell you what I'm supposed to do, and you say it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6432	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6433	I would now like to say that we are changing our practice in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which has not previously been respected because of this article 164.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6434	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6435	So give me a little yes, let's think. So it is true that Article 164 says – that after the debate, the votes on amendments and resolution are voted on. I've been informed that in some past periods it wasn't a practice, but we'll follow the Rules of Procedure. So now we're voting on amendments and resolution, and please, since there's everything and everything, let's concentrate a little bit. I suggest we vote first on the amendments to the proposals. The promoter, you've all got ten amendments, I think they're a package, that we don't need to read them, and that's how we should vote. Mr. Stevandić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6436	Mr. Chairman, please, I don't know if you've overlooked it, so Mrs. Bursać said, and after I, the amendments we've tabled don't refer to the document, I'm telling you this because of the voting problem, it doesn't apply to the document that's been changed and where the resolution writes about respecting victims of fascist regimes and movements. Our amendments concern a document called the Resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime, and now we have a problem, because we have tabled amendments to the Resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime, and the Proposer has changed the text in the Resolution on respect for victims of fascist regimes and movements. So, if we vote on our amendment, the title has to be changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6437	Please, come on, I know you're all nervous, but I need to be the most nervous about your performances here. We know that, Mr. Stevandić, we vote one by one. So, the amendment has a total of, HDZ promoter, SNSD and Serbian Club, Mr. Mektić personally, although, in my view, this is not an amendment and does not refer to 68 of this matter, but we both vote well on it and then on the Resolution. So my proposal is the following, the ten amendments that the promoter has submitted all of you have received, read, I suggest we vote in the package, not one by one, because they are the package and they are from the promoters and that is why we can vote in the package. So, I suggest you prepare for the vote, to plead. Mrs. Novaković, is there something you want to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6438	I'm just asking you to... just when we vote explicitly repeat, emphasize what we vote on, because sometimes you hear it, sometimes you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6439	Well, I'll say it again, I think I'm even loud. So, the promoters have ten amendments and we are voting now on these ten amendments in the package. They're all in front of you. So, we deliver the amendments, I can read them, but you have them all, why waste time on that. So, please initiate the vote. 32 votes - 25 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the amendments of the motionaries, ten, one to ten have been adopted. The next amendment is HDZ, and I think no matter what they've come up with, we have to vote for it. So Amendment I, I think you've got it, says that the resolution on respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime is changing and it is said - the decision to accept the European Parliament's resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism. We plead on this amendment. Please go ahead. 32 votes – no votes for, against 21, abstention 11. There's no general majority, there's no majority. Thank you. The next amendment of the SNSD and the Serbian Club, Amendment I with several indents, does not need to read, you all got, I hope. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, the amendment and the SNSD Club and the Serbian Club. The signatures have, they have everything, you've seen it all, so there's no need to read it. 69 We vote for this amendment. Start the vote. Total attendance 32 – for 12, versus 17, abstention 3. No majority, no amendment. The last amendment, Mr. Mektić, if that's what you're staying with, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6441	Yeah. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6442	Okay. Ni, is this not divided? _________(?) Yes, it is. Yeah, well, there's no need for me to read. We vote for Mr. Mektić's amendment. Run the voting procedure. Total attendance of 32 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6448	71 Thank you, Chairman. Since I am obliged to explain, but with the aim of saving time, this has already been on two committees, I have explained to both committees and I can only ask my colleagues to read the explanation that is very detailed and which is in favour of the documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6449	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Point 61. Ad. 61. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), we refer to the Parliament's initiative to amend Article 5. Regulations on the use of the telephone in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly under Article 49 (2) of the Law on Salaries and Receipts in BiH institutions (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 50/08, 35/09, 75/09, 32/12, 42/12, 50/12, 32/13, 87/13, 75/15, 88/15 and 16/16), Article 63 (1) point (g) of the Rules of Procedure of the Representative's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15) and Rule 53 (1) Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16", number: 01-50-1-1-1872/19 of 25.10.19. He tasked the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs with the House's college as a competent commission. The Joint Commission delivered its opinion, did not support the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. Here you go. Mrs. Aida Baručija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6451	Thank you, Chairman. I will briefly, on the basis of parliamentary questions on the cost of using mobile phones in the Parliamentary Assembly and the answers we have received, consider the unwarranted huge amounts set out in the Rules on the use of the phone in the Parliamentary Assembly, noting that each office in Parliament owns a fixed phone. In addition to the enormously large salaries and all the privileges we have, and the poor economic situation in which most of our citizens live, and the minimum pension of 370 marks, we believe that these approved amounts should be reduced, while individual users of this privilege should be completely abolished. For example, members of the Colleges have an average monthly amount for the cost of using a mobile phone of 500 marks, while the maximum annual amount is 6,000 KM. Today, with the possibility of using free means of communication through several applications, and the offer of favourable packages to telecom operators, where for example with a package of 117 marks you can talk for 10,000 minutes, send 10,000 text messages and use unlimited 72 internet. This is how we find spending budget money irresponsible. In addition to this proposal, you have proposed amounts that are within the limits of real needs. And only in the end, here, will I specify one fact that, therefore, all three members of the College have an annual level of 18,000 marks, which is 72,000 KM during the term of office, and a pensioner with a minimum pension of 370 marks spent on food, communals and medicines as he alone knows it, for the amount spent on phone expenses in the term should receive a pension of 16 years. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6452	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate when it comes to point 61. Point 62, Ad. 62. A review of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I submit an initiative requiring an amendment to the decision of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs in the sense that MPs, while the blocking of the work of the House of Representatives, are to be suspended from payment for each month in which at least one session of the House is not held, as well as all MPs who do not attend at least one session in the current month. Also, I encourage this initiative to encourage the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer to parliamentary procedures amendments and amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions which would define the area precisely in these cases," number 01-50-1-313/20 of 04. 02. 2020 Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short, namely, here, and today's debate and events at this session show the necessity of such an intervention, because this is one rational solution, because even under the Labour Act, a worker who does not come to work does not belong to compensation, or wages, if he has not worked. Why should MPs and delegates be excluded from it? In addition, today we have heard several times that the Council of Ministers is in charge, that it is comprehensively resolved and defined these issues and, behold, this seems to be an opportunity for us to put the Council of Ministers in charge through this initiative. Secondly, in this period of the pandemic, I believe that elected officials should especially have a much higher level of social sensitivity to those who chose them and therefore, here, and I propose this kind of initiative. In the end, I think the time has come to think perhaps of the complete abolition of the professional work of MPs. Why do I say that, we are 42 at the state level in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it should be an honor for all of us to represent those who chose us. And that's why I think the time has come for MPs to work on a volunteer basis, not to be professional politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6455	73 Thank you. No more reporting for discussion, closing the hearing when it comes to point 62. Moving to point 63, Ad. 63. Consideration of the Parliamentary Initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', number: 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/11) I submit a parliamentary initiative in order to establish a mechanism for the exchange of data from the electronic registers of Republika Srpska, Federation of BiH and Brcko District, in which the personal data of citizens are kept, with a view to faster and more efficient obtaining personal documentation, i.e. to enable citizens to obtain copies from their municipalities, as well as all the necessary assurances." Number: 01-50-1618/20 of 09. Three. 2020 The College has appointed the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent. The Commission delivered its opinion and did not support the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Edita Đapo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6457	Thank you, Chairman. My respects to you, co-chair as well as to all colleagues and colleagues and professional services and guests who follow this session. Well, here you can read from the initiative that there has long been a recommendation from the International Community, but indeed the need for citizens of our country to exchange data in Bosnia and Herzegovina between the parent registers of Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District. In addition to being a condition for EU membership, this will greatly facilitate the simple life of our people because in BiH you have citizens who were born in one entity and live in another and in 2012, until these databases were established, the entity database of the citizen had to go, therefore, to the very municipality in which he was born to take or raise his birth certificate. Today he should go to the nearest municipality in the second entity, however, since we live in the 21st century, that information technologies have advanced I think the time and need there is that citizens can reach all their documents in their municipality. So in that sense, I ask this Parliament to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6458	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. Point 64, Ad. 64. Proposal for the conclusion of MP Nermin Nikšić, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH for precise information on how there has been an agreement with the company "Silbrena Malin" to obtain a respirator, number: 01-50-1-15-8/20 since 15.05.2020. 74 You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Mr. Nikšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6460	I'm not going to, uh, spread at all, maybe just Mr. Chairman, say the deadline, uh, which is, so we can, uh, expect material and get ready for the next session. Maybe within seven days, three, whatever.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6461	If I get it right, you...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6462	Maybe within seven days deliver full information.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6463	...to add the proposal to the conclusion – within seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6465	Okay. Thank you. Controversy? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Before the debate for the next points, I suggest we share the debate on points 65 to 68. It's giving consent to ratify the contract. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Run the plea procedure. A total of 29 — 27, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. I'm saying we're having a debate united by points 65 to 68. Ad. 65. - ad. 68. Giving consent to the ratifications of the contract I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. Timeout 15 minutes before the vote. 15 minutes... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6471	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6472	We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Jasmin Emrić. Who, is that about this, doesn't it say here? Marine.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6473	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6474	What is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6475	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6476	With point 6 or point 5?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6477	Five, five.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6478	Five, and where's point six? Give me that, and we'll see where point six is. Proposed conclusion by Mr Emrić: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers to draw up and deliver to the House of Representatives within 90 days to discuss the proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Act on an additional value in such a way as to allow VAT payment bonds to be submitted to the monthly VAT application by the end of the month following the end of the tax period, i.e. the existing position (2) of Article 39. 77 The Tax Act on additional value of the amendments and reads – The application under the heading (1) of this Member of the undertaking shall be submitted by the end of the month following the end of the tax period. We vote. 33 present – 24 for, 6 against, 3 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Mr. Emirć's adopted conclusion. Point 6. - No, he's going to the second round. Point 7. – Zahjevnik Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01- 02-1-752/20 of 02.04.2020. We're voting on the bill. 33 present – 25 against 5.3 abstentions. He's got generals, he's got entity majority. I find that the bill has been passed. Point 8. – Zahjevnik Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut to discuss the draft law on the mandatory contributions of officials to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-761-1/20 of 28.04.2020. We're voting on the bill. 33 total – 23 for, 6 against, 4 abstained. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. The law was not adopted in the first reading, we do not have the consent of the College, since there is no third member and goes into the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6479	Later. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6480	Point 10. – Proposal for Amendment II and Amendment III to the Constitution of BiH, Proposer: MEP Dženan Đonlagić, No: 01-02-1-317/20 of 24.02.2020, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I would like to stress the vote on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Thirty, [[Common discussion]] Repeat the vote, I repeat twice. 78 We repeat the vote, we repeat. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the proposal for amendments II and III to Mr Dženan-Đonlagić. _________(?) Say it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6486	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6487	No, no, sorry. It is not accepted, the Commission is obliged to draw up a new opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6488	80 Since there is no third member of the College, we go to a later match and vote in the second round at the next session, so is the 13th point. [[no microphone turned on]] So the 13th is going too, there's no entity majority going to the second...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6489	Okay, my mistake, and point 13 and this point goes to the second round of voting at the next session. Is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6490	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6491	Okay, that's fine, now it's accurate. Point 15. – A report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2017, applicant: Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-37-2701/18 of 10.12.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 20 for, 7 against, 6 abstentions. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority, he's got a report. We're voting on the conclusion of opinion. The conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights reads: It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver a report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy for the Implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018 and 2019 as soon as possible and to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're voting on a conclusion. 33 present – 31 for, 2 abstentions, the adopted conclusion of the Commission on Human Rights with this Report. There is another proposal for a conclusion, Mr Nikola Lovrinović, which reads: The House of Representatives is demanding a new report that will be based on reports from entity governments, Brcko District and the government of Canton, which will also be accepted in congregations of the same levels of government. We are voting on Mr Lovrinović's proposal for a conclusion. 33 present – for 8, v 18, abstention 7. There is no general majority, no conclusion adopted. Point 16. – Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, applicant: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01-02-04-1616/18 since 13.07.2018. We're voting on the report. Of the 33 present – 22 for, 8 against, 3 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. With the report, we are voting on the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which reads: 81 The Council of Ministers undertakes to end the adoption and delivery procedure for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the new text of the Personal Data Protection Act as soon as possible, and to act in an adequate manner in accordance with the conclusions set out in the Report on the Protection of Personal Data of BiH in order to ensure the legal and efficient work of the Agency. We're voting on a conclusion. 33 present – for 33, adopted conclusion. Point 17. – Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1-1243/19 of 08.07.20119. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 23 for, against 9, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. It's an adopted report. Dot 18. Am I okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6492	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6493	Oh, no, no, the conclusion, right? What...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6494	Now comes the conclusion... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6495	We are voting on the conclusion of the Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, on point 17. The Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to end the adoption procedure and to submit to the Parliamentary Assembly the text of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data as soon as possible in accordance with the conclusions set out in the 2018 Report. The conclusion is the same, but we have to vote, because there are two different reports. We vote for closure. Adopted conclusion, general and entity majority, all present vote. Point 18. – Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution of BiH's Human Rights Institution for 2017, applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01.02-37-776/18, since 19.03.2018. We're voting on the adoption of the Izvješaj. 33 present – 25 for, 5 against, 5 abstentions. It's an adopted report.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6496	82 Three abstentions. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6497	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6498	Three, three abstentions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6499	33 present – 25 for, 5 against, 3 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6500	Okay, it's okay now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6501	Yeah, okay. Point 19. – Annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman for the year 2018, issue: 01-12-1-620/19 of 20.03.2019. We vote. 33 present – 25 for, 6 v, 2 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority, adopted report. Point 20. – Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-2034/18 since 06/09/2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 24 for, 6 against, 3 abstained. There's a general and entity majority, adopted report. Point 21. – Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1916/19 since 04.11.2019. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 Present – 24 for, against 6, abstentions 3. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority, he's got a report. Point 22. – A special report on the national and full structure of employees in police and security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted by: The Ombudsman's institution for human rights BiH, issue: 01.02-50-19-1413/18 since 11.06.2018. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the recommendations set out therein. 33 present – 25 for, 6 v, 2 abstentions. 83 Has general, has entity majority, adopted report. Point 23. – A special report on the state of human rights of persons with intellectual and mental difficulties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: The BiH Ombudsman institution, issue: 01.02.03-37-1459/18 since 18.06.2018. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the recommendations set out therein. 33 present – 26 for, v 6, abstention 1. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority, he's got a report. Point 24. – A special report on the situation in the area of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: The BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02-37-170/19 since 17.01.2019. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 26 for, v 6, abstention 1. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority, he's got a report. Point 25. – Special Report on the ban on the physical punishment of the child in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: The Ombudsman's institution for human rights of BiH, issue: 01,02-37-1-2257/19 since 26.12.2019. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the recommendations set out therein. 33 present – 26 for, 5 against, abstention 2. There's a general, there's an entity majority, a Special Report adopted. Point 26. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Government of public procurement contracts in BiH institutions", submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2432/18 since 08.11.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 25 for, against 8, there are no abstentions. The general majority exists, entity exists, adopted report. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Commission's opinion on finance and budget with this point, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance and Treasury to report within three months the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on planned and undertaken activities to implement the recommendations of the Report on the impact audit on the subject – Management of the process of realising public procurement contracts. We're voting on a conclusion. Conclusion adopted, 33 present – 29 for, against 3.1 abstention. There's one and the other. Point 27. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: ‘Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations’, applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2433/18 of 08.11.2018. We're voting on the report. The report was adopted – 26 votes for, 7 against, no abstentions, it is out of 33. 84 Point 28. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2261/19 since 26.12.2019. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 26 for, 6 v, 1 abstention. There's one and the other majority, the adopted report. Point 29. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: ‘Determining the customs value of motor vehicles’, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-51/19 of 03.01.2019. We're voting for adoption of the report. There's a general, there's an entity majority -- 26 for, 7 against, no abstentions. I understand the report has been adopted. The report concludes from the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Directorate for indirect taxation to report within three months the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on planned and undertaken activities on the implementation of the Report's recommendations on the impact audit carried out – the establishment of the customs value of second-hand motor vehicles. We vote for closure. Conclusion adopted – 28 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. There's one and the other. Point 30. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina-level Strategies", applicant: BiH institutions' audit office, issue: 01/4-16-1 52/19 since 03.01.2019. We're voting on the report. 26 for, 7 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority, it's a total of 33 present. It's an adopted report. Point 31. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Activities of BiH institutions in the process of adopting a regulation on internal organisations", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-118/19 since 11/01/2019. We're voting on the report. 33 present – 26 for, 7 against. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority, he's got a report. Point 32. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The readiness of BiH institutions to respond to the commitments undertaken from the Sustainable Development Programme by 2030", submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-1866/19 of 25.10.2009. We're voting for adoption of the report. The report was adopted, there is a general and entity majority – for 26, against 7 abstentions. 85 Point 33. – Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1422/19 since 07.08.2019. We're voting for adoption of the report. 33 present – 24 for, 8 v, abstention 1. It has a general, has an entity majority, adopted the Annual Consolidated Internal Audit Report. Point 34. – Consolidated report on the financial management and control system in BiH institutions for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02- 16-1-4423/19 since 07.08.2019. We're voting for adoption of the report. 24 for, 7 against, 2 abstentions, has general, has entity majority, adopted. Point 35. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers, issue: 01.02-02-1-1885/18 of 27.02.2020 (law in second reading). We vote in the second round on the draft law in the second reading. Total attendance 33 – for 19, versus 13, abstention 1. There's a general majority, no entity majority, no law adopted. Point 36. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (E.), issue: 01,02-02-1-2852/18 of 27.02.2020 (the second reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the second reading. 33 present – 22 for, 11 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity majority, no patent law. Point 37. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-489/19 of 27.02.2020 (law in second reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 33 present – 21 for, 8 against, 4 abstained. It has a general, it has an entity majority, the BiH Judicial Police Act has been passed. Point 38. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Aid System in Bosnia and Herzegovina (E.), Proposer: Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-02-1694/19 of 27.02.2020 (Law in Second Reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Total attendance 33 – for 25, against 8. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the State Aid System Act has been passed. 86 Point 39. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of BiH on the execution of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-1613/18 of 27.02.2020 (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 22 for, 11 against a total of 33. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. No law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the first reading has been adopted. Point 40. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Proposers: MEPs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Predrag Kojović, issue: 01-02-116/18 of 27.02.2020 (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of those present 33 - 22 for, 11 against. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. The Proposal for a Code of Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has not been adopted. Point 41. Marine's tracking this.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6502	It's all right. It's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6503	It's going too fast not to make a mistake in the conclusion. Point 41. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, No: 01-02-1-196/20 of 27.02.2020 (emergency Act). We're voting in the second round on the bill's proposal. Of 33 present – for 25, against 6, abstention 2. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the law has been passed. Point 42. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions, issue: 01,02-02-1-377/18 since 27.02.2020. We vote in the second round of the Joint Commission Report. 33 Present – 19 for, versus 11, abstention 3. There's a general majority, no entity majority. The Joint Committee's report has not been adopted, the bill is considered rejected in accordance with Article 129. Rules of Procedure. Point 43. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of opinions on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on Excises in BiH (proposer: MP Aida Baručija), issue: 01-02-1-222/19 of 27.02.2020. 87 We vote in the second round to extend the deadline by 30 days to deliver an opinion on the proposal for a law to refer to the Council of Ministers for transmission of the requested opinion. Total 33 – for 22, against 6, with 5 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority, adopted. Point 44. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-2615/18 of 27.02.2020. We're voting in the second round of adoption reports. The report was adopted, there is an entity majority in general – 15 against 12, abstentioned 6. It's the famous Rules of Procedure. Point 45. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-2141/19 of 27.02.2020. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. 33 present – for 15, versus 14, abstention 4. There's a general, there's an entity majority. It's good to think that 15 is the majority of 33. The 2018 Report was adopted. Point 46. – The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for the completion of Parliament's Jasmin Emrić on the debate on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2018, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers of BiH to, on the basis of an analysis of the report of experts on the issues of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina (so-called Pribe's report), making and delivering to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the adoption of an Action Plan to remove shortcomings in the area of rule of law, implement recommendations and measures contained in the Report of Experts on Law Issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 05.12.2019", number: 01.02-09-1029/18 and 01-50-18-148/20 since 12.03.2020. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Report adopted, statement adopted – 26 for, 7 against, of 33. There's one and the other. Point 47. The Kolegijum's report on reaching agreement on Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović's proposal, smiles now have several points and Mr Osmanović's proposal. Point 47. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović for the debate on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2018, which reads as follows: "It requires the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deliver, as soon as possible, detailed 88 statistics on the processing of war crimes cases that have been marked by The Hague tribunal as items A of category", No. 01,02-09-1029/18 and 01-50-18-148/20 since 12.03.2020. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Conclusion adopted with – 24 votes for, 7 against, 2 abstentions. There's one and the other. Point 48. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović on the debate on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and on the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2018, which reads: "Prepare the analysis and review of the necessary changes and addition of criminal legislation, especially when it comes to the confirmation of the indictment and the decision on objections to the same," issue: 01.02-09-1029/18 and 01-50-18-148/20 of 12.03.2020. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Conclusion adopted – 24 for, 7 v, 2 abstentions. There's one and the other. Point 49. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović on the debate on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2018, which reads: "For all rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH whose non-implementation requires the processing of authorised persons in those cases where individual criminal liability can undoubtedly be specified, BiH's Prosecutor's Office is required to act in accordance with its powers and to initiate appropriate proceedings", issue: 01.02-09-1029/18 and 01-50-18-148/20 of 12.03.2020. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Total attendance 33 – for 22, against 11. There is a general majority, no entity majority, no conclusion by Mr. Osmanović. Point 50. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of the BiH Council of Prosecutors for 2017 and the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the Court of Justice for 2018, which reads: "The attention of the members of the Osmanović is to be taken into account, more specifically, the representation of the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina", number 01,02-09-1029/18 and 01-50-18-148/20 of 12.03.2020. There's a general, there's an entity majority -- 18 for, 11 against, 4 abstentions. It's a consensual conclusion. Point 51. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović on the debate on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and on the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2018, which reads: "In view of all the above, we consider it to be relevant that the VSTS reports to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are delivered twice a year to amend the relevant legislation on this matter," issue: 01.02-09-1029/18 and 01-50-18-148/20 of 12.03.2020. 89 We vote in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. The adopted conclusion, has a general and entity majority – 25 for, 7 against, 1 abstention. Point 52 is no longer the conclusion of Mr Osmanović, and this time the proposal for the conclusion of MP Safet Softić. Point 52. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of the Safet Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the Court of Justice for the year 2018, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly accepts the initiative on the establishment of a Supreme Court position by forming the Supreme Court of BiH, with a view, primarily, to ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina for all its citizens without discrimination", issue: 01,02-09-1029/18 and Softić of 12.03.2020. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Softić. No proposal for Mr Softić's conclusion was adopted – 22 votes against 11. There's a general, but there's no entity majority. Point 53. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MPs Predrag Kojović and Nermin Nikšić for the debate on the judiciary, which reads, I must read the entire page... [[Common discussion]] Proposal for a conclusion... I don't need it for the record, no, and I'd like to not read it. Point 53. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MPs Predrag Kojović and Nermin Nikšić on the debate on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary and the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2018, which reads: 1. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers to submit amendments and amendments to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina considers that the amendments to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina should contain all the recommendations contained in the Report of the European Commission, the Pribe Report, and further that they should go in the following direction: a. Split the VSTS to separate bodies: High Judicial Council and the High Prosecutorial Council, b. Members currently appointed by the competent legal chambers to replace the university professors of law which, on the basis of a public competition, appoints the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 90 c. That the main Tužioce at all levels of the authorities are appointed by the competent legislative authorities at the proposal of the High Prosecutorial Council of the list of several qualified candidates, two-thirds to the majority of elected members of the legislature, d. d.a. Three. 2020. Voice __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6507	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6508	Did I do something wrong?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6509	Yes, this goes on a second-round alignment,....., there is no entity majority so for.... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6510	The secretary warns me that I've made a mistake, of course it's possible after all this reading and,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6511	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6512	Okay, we're at the end, so we can be patient, see where the mistake is. /Consultations of the Chairman and Secretary/ That's right, period 60 and 61 is fine, it has to go to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6514	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6515	60th and 61st, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6516	93 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6517	Wrong conclusion, we didn't adopt in the first round of Mr. Arnaut's initiative, so point 60 and 61 goes into the second round. Is he all right?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6518	Yes, the 60th and 61st subsequent alignment of the second round. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-20-0.u6519	Well, yeah, that's good, now I figure it out in the end. Point 62. – A review of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I submit an initiative requiring an amendment to the decision of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs in the sense that MPs, while the blocking of the work of the House of Representatives, are to be suspended from payment for each month in which at least one session of the House is not held, as well as all MPs who do not attend at least one session in the current month. Also, I encourage this initiative to encourage the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer to parliamentary procedures amendments and amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions which would define the area precisely in these cases," number: 01-50-1-313/20 since 04.02.2020. We're voting on the adoption of a parliamentary initiative. The initiative did not receive support in the first round – 22 for, against 6, with 5 abstentions. He's got a general, no entity majority, he's going to the second round. Point 63. – Consideration of Parliament's initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', number: 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/11) I submit a parliamentary initiative to establish a mechanism for the exchange of data from the electronic registers of Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District, in which the personal data of citizens are kept, with the aim of faster and more effective obtaining personal documentation, i.e. to enable citizens to obtain copies from their municipalities from their home registers, as well as all the necessary assurances." Number: 01-50-1618/20 since 09.03.2020. We're voting on the adoption of a parliamentary initiative. No support was received in the first round, it goes into a later adjustment – 22.6 against, 5 abstentions. There's a general, no entity majority. Point 64. – Proposal for the conclusion of MP Nermin Nikšić, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH for precise information on how the approval of the company "Silvena Malin" for the purchase of the respirator took place within seven days, number: 01-50-1-15-820 of 15.05.2020. We are voting on the adoption of an updated proposal for a conclusion. The adopted proposal for a conclusion – 32 votes for, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. 94 I'm closing point 64. For the next points, I suggest we vote on a motion to unite the vote on points 65 to 68. A motion adopted for united points. Ad. 65. - Ad. 68. We are now voting to give consent to the ratification of the contract in points 65 to 68. I find that we have adopted or agreed to ratify the contract in points 65 to 68 because of the 33 present – 31 voted in favour and 2 abstentions, which means that there are both general and entity majority. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I hereby conclude the 8th session of the House of Representatives. I thank you for your hard work and announce the next session of orientation around 10, so on the 9th or 10th, we'll see the date more precisely. Thank you. Session completed at 5:54 p.m.
