ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1265	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 6th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I just want to inform you that our sekretarijat has taken over all the necessary activities to work in accordance with the decisions of the crisis headquarters of the apropo glomer pandemic, or the crown of the virus, which unfortunately takes its toll every day. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Today we have, therefore, information that the Minister of the Federation, Mr. Bukarević, has also passed away so that, on behalf of the Colleges, he will sympathise with the family. So, please respect the measures of the Crisis Staff. The session is attended, therefore, by 14 delegates of 15, so – 5 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. So we have a quorum for work and decision-making. The session is justifiably absent from Mr. Čović for reasons we had at the last emergency session, so he is in house isolation and I am in communication with him and I hope that he will be at the next session, I do not hope, but I am sure that he will attend the next session. So for the sixth emergency session, I suggest the following agenda: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 4th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, issue 01.02-2-11266,1/20, since 27.07.20120; 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-21-1-1310/20, of 01.07.20120; 5. Granting consent for ratification of Additional Protocol No. 6 on trade in services provided for in the Agreement amending and joining the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006), number: 01,02-21-1-135/20, of 03.07.20120; 6. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Marrakesh of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to facilitate access to published works by blind, visually impaired and persons who, for another reason, cannot be used in the press, No: 01,02-21-1-345/20, of 02.07.20120; 2 7. Granting consent for ratification of the Amended Convention for Satellite Communications (EYTELSAT), number: 01,02-21-1-1337/20, from 02.07.20120. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. I just want one brief note, last time we hired, so the sekretarijat to prepare amendments to the Rules of Procedure for holding sessions, online sessions in case of a need if there is a tightening of the situation, I believe it won't, but in case the need arises. Today, we did not discuss Mr. Čović's amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And I want to inform you that at the next session, which will be held in the last week of August, we will have these changes and hopefully the House will support and adopt. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 4th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. So let's get this straight, so, uh, log from the fourth emergency session. So there's 14 -- for 13, against no one, abstention 1. We have a general, we have an entity majority, so the Federation of BiH – 9 for, no one against, no one abstention, Republika Srpska – 4 for, against none, abstention 1. I konstatuj that the minutes of the 4th emergency session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted, we move to item two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1269	Dear Chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Right, we've done one big job, and I guess today is finally the end of all of this Budget agony. So, as far as we were or were wrong, you can see how Law 4 passed on to the Joint Commission. Thus, what the House of Nations unanimously adopted at the House of Peoples session was adopted. All six amendments that have been proposed have been given a passivity and the decision has been made... by consensus. If this is a good sign that we are starting to co-operate and agree on important issues related to this country, then this is an opportunity to complete a successful session today and be a future guideline so that we should cooperate and negotiate. I hope there's nothing unclear, to repeat only what we repeated as the House of Nations when we last adopted this Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1270	I thank Mrs. Majkić. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Zlatko Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1271	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are here and the journalists who are following us. What do I want to say? I may turn out to be a repeater, but I can't turn my attention to that again, especially since I looked at the Federation statistics on certain economic issues this morning. And when it comes to hoteling, catering and not listing all the areas, the job in the fourth month fell in those segments 85% in individual activities. I would like to say that I agree with this view of the Komisijen, although I will vote for Budget for two reasons. I think that first we should have had enough empathy towards the citizens of Unsko-Sanski, Tuzlanski and Sarajevo Canton when it came to the migrant crisis and that when we had already accepted these amendments of the Croatian People's Club that we could still accept the amendment relating to the resolution of the migrant crisis because I don't think we would miss anything, and that in that way we would actually show the desire to want to deal with this problem and to solve it. What do I want to point out? I think that, in a certain way, by adopting... the amendments we humiliated, in a certain way, the members of the presidency and that we shouldn't have done that. I mean, and I repeat, the Budget was supposed to be conjectured in a whole new way. And I, first of all members of one college and another, please, since we're going to adopt it today, to take care of how we spend that money, because if it's true that we need to buy some two audiences, I don't know who, I think it's embarrassing, it's degutant, that in this situation when people die, we don't buy from this crown every day we buy some kind of car. If we do that and buy cars, here's one colleague of the day's notice, it'd be good to keep an eye on environmentals even if they buy some electric vehicles if we don't pollute the environment. What do I want to say in the end? And really honestly, because I really appreciate Minister Bevanda, I know that he knows that he knows he's doing his job, if we've done it this year, I'm asking you really, because this is going to take an even longer period of time, for at least a year,... I see some day of Minister Košarac, and it's been, what people say, the heart this long, seven, ten days ago, visited Sokolac municipality, the mayor of the municipality, and I see there some agricultural good, people are making some kind of milk and expecting help from the state, no matter if it's Sokolac, if it's some kind of tourist community in Medjugorje, or if there's some other firm that I'm not giving a lecture here now, means instead of these people being proud of us giving them help, so please 5 of you, here next year, if we can do it now, that we all work together for the people. Not in a populist sense, not that we are important and popular, but that people feel that we are sympathetic to them, to show empathy towards the problem of migration, empathy towards the economic crisis, because most of our Federation firms are going to fail, and if you want to do so in Bosnia and Herzegovina because people really don't have a job first and don't know how to feed their family members. And I think that we need to make sure that the next budget, we really need to cut it, to get out of ourselves, take a break, take 20, 30 percent. I don't know how it's gonna be done. So... all of us, but to know that this mass of steam will end up right in Sokoca, that we're going to help some farmer or someone who's in case... of need. And finally what do I want to say? Here, I hope, and I think we've lost this time for too long, that we could have ended all this in a different way, much faster and more efficient, and I'll only vote for two reasons. The first reason is for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to function, above all I think of the chairman and the Council of Ministers, because they will behave differently and more easily when they have money. And next thing you know, I think the democratic local elections that are to be held at the end of this year are a very important and strategic matter for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that in that regard, having only those two reasons in mind, so today I am going to vote in favour of the Budget of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1272	I thank my colleague Miletić. A colleague named Asim Sarajlić picked up his words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1273	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and all your colleagues and colleagues and esteemed guests. As you said in the introduction today he moved to a better world of Salko Bukvarević, a valuable member of the total bh society, therefore, here we are in some way affected by this heavy loss. In the spirit of your introduction and in the spirit of what Mrs. Majkić said, therefore, we have come a very difficult way around this Budget, we have had very difficult debates and had this Commission on which we have, by consensus, decided to support what we have done at the last session of the House of Peoples, as Mrs. Majkić says, unanimously adopted. So there are no ideal solutions, especially at today's political moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this is today, if Bog does, a step forward. So, you see what we're dealing with, one of our members, that is, the man who's in the leadership of this House is in house isolation, he's sick, society is suffering, much more orderly societies are suffering today, this one, we're struggling with this, we're fighting a migrant crisis, we're struggling with the overall social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was the beginning of this crisis that we seemed to be able to carry it today and these days when the numbers were more intense, when deaths were, to say... in both entities and in all the cities of Bosnia and Herzegovina already took hold. So, we have to, and this Council of Ministers and this House, go over some things and look at a wider picture, so we have to fight the pandemic, we have to deal with the migrant crisis, the other life problems that fellow Miletić was talking about, an attempt to deal with this crisis that the whole world is facing, and it's not in practice, or in the history of experiences of this type. 6 So we have, here, a budget that allows local elections to be held, we also have political arrangements and, behold, the possibility of holding elections in Mostar after 12 years. They're all the positive sides of everything we've been discussing here, which, to say politically, we've broken a spear. And here today, although sad about the loss of friends, Mr. Bukvarević and everything that is happening today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I still think this is a good and safe step forward for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1274	Thank you. A colleague named Lidija Bradara called. Here you go. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Denis Bećirović, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1275	The esteemed chairman. Since there is still an open debate about less, more familiar things I will not repeat everything I said last week during the debate on this Budget. I think in a situation like this, the solutions offered are very bad solutions. Messages sent, such as the reduction of defence budgets, such as the reduction of funds for respect for human rights, the recovery of economic damage or the reduction of funds for the realisation of Annex VII, are not good messages. So, bad solutions, bad budget. It didn't have to be like this, the amendments tabled by HDZ have made the bad budget worse anyway. But I'm going to go back to the last session -- there's only one worse budget on this one -- and that's an unadopted budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1276	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Lidija Bradara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1277	I thank the president. I welcome you all very much. I didn't mean to pick up on this agenda point, but here, since we've opened up a debate about this. I also extend my condolences to my colleagues from the Party of Democratic Action on behalf of the Croatian People's Club and the family of the late minister of Bukvarević. We've discussed this a lot in the last session, this has been a long way, and everything that we're saying today I hope we'll open up a wider debate, a wider debate about what kind of Bosnia and Herzegovina we want. This budget is the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with the Constitution and the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I understand colleagues and the need for us to today, I have needs and feelings, all of us still living in some natural environments, living with living people, and we know what they need. Since there have been many charges and insinuations in public these days, I again responsibly argue that this budget has been returned to the legal frameworks, there is now nothing in it that would violate any law regarding the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that we will open the debate and hope that during this year, which is perfectly in line with the law, we will have the opportunity to discuss the draft law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will open a wider dialogue, and that by the end of 2020 we will have a budget adopted for 2021. I think it would be the best message and economy, and foreign investors, and the whole, best message for everyone like Bosnia and Herzegovina to be like a regulated rule of law that could ensure that everyone can open investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, create an ambience in which this society, the economy and all that can be developed, and answer all these questions that you have raised. So, you know that we supported the budget last time, we're just discussing today a report from the Commission that agreed to the text. And, here, this is my little contribution to the discussion, since we've already opened, we've reopened the budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-29-0.u1278	I thank my colleague Bradar. No Niko's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We now approach the vote on the Joint Commission's report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on the achievement of the identical text of the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020. Present 13 - for 13, against no one, abstentioned none. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, Republika Srpska – 4 for, against no one, no one abstentioned. So we have a general and entity majority. I find that the Joint Commission's report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on achieving the same text of the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 has been adopted. We're moving on, then, to the next item of the agenda. I propose that we bring together the debate and the statements on points 4 to 7, including item 7 of the agenda. You've seen the ratification of the financial content agreement. I'm opening a debate on the unification of the debate on these points. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Now we'll make it clear whether we're in favour of uniting the debate and the vote. It's 14 in 13 against no one, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned nobody, Republika Srpska – 4 for, against none, 1 abstention. We have a general and entity majority. So, the proposal has been subdued. Ad. 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified information, number 01.02-21-1-1310/20, since 01.07.2020, Ad. 5. Granting consent for ratification of Additional Protocol No. 6 on trade in services provided for in the Agreement on the modification and accession of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006), number: 01,02-21-1-135/20, of 03.07.20120, Ad. Six. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty of Marrakesh of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to facilitate access to published works by 8 blind, visually impaired and persons who, for another reason, cannot be used in the press, number: 01,02-21-1-345/20, since 02.07.20120. Seven. Approval of ratification of the Amended Convention for Satellite Communications (EYTELSAT), No: 01,02-21-1-1337/20, of 02.07.20120 You have received opinions from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication from the House of Peoples. I give the word to Mr. Fazlić Amir, if there's any need. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreements, contracts, protocols and conventions referred to in points 4 to 7 of the agenda, including item 7 of the agenda. It's 14 in 13 against no one, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned nobody, Republika Srpska – 4 for, against none, 1 abstention. So we have a general and entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, contracts, protocols and conventions referred to in items 4 to 7 of the agenda, including item 7 of the agenda. That's when the ladies and gentlemen finished the sixth emergency session of the House of Peoples. I'm closing the session. You will be informed of the date on which the next session is held. The principle agreement of us in the College that a session could possibly be held, if of course not... the need for an earlier session, so in the last week of August of the month. Thank you very much. I'll see you at the next session. Session completed at 12:30 p.m.
