ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6866	I ask the MPs to take their seats so we can start working, another call for the MPs to take their seats. Please register, I can see that there are MPs, but not all of them have registered. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. In addition to Mrs. Miljanović, who was not present last time because of the disease, Mr. Mirsad Kukić announced his absence. These three, four MPs who are not there right now are supposed to be in, somewhere in the clubs, and they will, because they haven't called, in any case there are enough MPs to continue the 8th session. I remind you that the 8th session of the House was interrupted after the end of the fourth item of the agenda and that we should continue to work on the 5th point. Point five, Ad. 5. Parliamentarian Denis Zvizdić request to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-728/20 of 30.03.2020 The draft law requiring an urgent review was given to you, the legislative sector delivered its opinion. I'm opening an emergency hearing. The word is Mr. Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6868	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I first report to respected MPs and MPs, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, respected media, I welcome you all very much, and here is the need to explain in a few sentences only the request for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure. As we all know, Article 133. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure rules two conditions for accepting the urgency of the procedure. The first is that it is a proposal for a high degree of urgency law, and I believe that this condition is fully met, because BiH, as well as the whole region and the whole world, is still struggling with the consequences of the global pandemic of the virus and the taking of emergency economic measures in addition to the epidemiological and health measures already implemented, is certainly..., it is a priority for all government institutions, 2 including, of course, the level of BiH, and it is certainly necessary for these measures to facilitate the economic consequences of the global pandemic, which has also affected BiH, to be considered without delay. Another business condition is urgency, for urgency procedures is to formulate the law in a simple way, so it can be considered in one reading. I believe that this condition is also fully respected, because this bill only has two positions that further extends Article 39 of the existing VAT Act. On the formal side, I would also like to remind myself that the legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on April 3rd gave a positive opinion on the text of this proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as well as on compliance with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe that the urgent procedure in the event of the adoption of this Act is fully justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6869	Thank you, Mr. Zvizdić. We're having an emergency proceedings, and it's Mrs. Mira Pekić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6870	Thank you. I don't know if we're gonna get up today, or if we're gonna sit down, okay? Thank you. In front of us is the proposal for a law supplementing the VAT Act, which is sent by emergency procedure, and here is an urgent procedure for us to discuss this Act today almost at the end of May of the month when it is far, far-reaching, disturbances in Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy are visible. The conditions for disturbances in Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy to consider the VAT law in terms of facilitating the business, i.e. the real sector were a priority and were to consider the urgent changes to the VAT law when they were addressed, there at the end of March of the month. This quiz caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus is specific. It is particularly reflected in the very economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina because measures have been taken to protect citizens that have had direct and indirect consequences in the economy. Direct consequences in the sense that, in order to protect citizens, certain legal entities were fully ordered to suspend work, and other indirect consequences were on legal entities, i.e. on the economic basis that these indirect entities had a problem in the supply of raw materials, repromation, or further in the placement of their products. I'm saying all of this so we can see the scales of the crisis, which will be felt by the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also have the latest World Bank Regular Report forecasting the decline of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic growth, the decline of the gross social product from 4% to 9%, and the basic favourable scenarios rest on the fact that the epidemic in Europe will soon begin to slow down, so that economic recovery can begin there somewhere in the second half of 2020. What we currently have in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that, it is a decline in VAT revenue which is evident and which, here we now see in May compared to April, but we will see it only in June when the bills are settled for May. The budget of the institutions, or the joint institutions of BiH, has not been adopted, we today may have had to discuss in this session the rebalancing of the BiH institutions' budget, we see that we are still living in 2019 and that we are still spending the same way we spent in 2019 without any 3 rebalancing and without any restrictions. Budget, let me tell you, the real sector needs to be brought to the same level with the public sector, and we cannot expect the real sector to bear more than the public sector, that is, than governments and states at all levels of government and institutions. It is, of course, difficult to implement, whether the state has a mechanism in its hands and controls and penalties, but workers in the real sector must be at the same level as public sector workers and it is impossible for public sector jobs to be untouchable, that public sector workers work and receive salaries, and that workers in the real sector remain jobless, and how many businesses are unemployed and how many businesses that will close down and shut down their business, we will probably see them there somewhere in June when they are, if the pandemic is weakened, we will see somewhere in June how weak the crisis is. As far as this VAT Act is concerned, it provides for the introduction into the Council of Ministers' Law itself as an institution that can decide to postpone payment of VAT for three months at the end of the month. As far as VAT is concerned, aid to the economy would be to permanently postpone payment of VAT at the end of the month, it is a real aid to the economy. What do we have in this case? We're going to have a proposal to pay the VAT at the end of the month, let's say we adopt it now, to be expedient, and to adopt now, paying the VAT for May would be June 30th, paying the VAT for June 31st, paying the VAT for July would be August 31st, but VAT for August would be paid by business operators on September 10th and back to the same story. The problem of the economy is liquidity, the problem of the economy is that they have no craftsmanship and it really is, there were the authorities that needed to have hearing and to bring and help the real sector, because really without the real sector as a dizziness, we're not going to have any revenue in the budget, and we know how significant VAT is to us, significant to the revenue side of the budget. Some countries in the area have delayed payment of VAT, they have heard, so they said VAT won't pay on a certain deadline someone who has a 20 percent drop in income or someone who can't collect everything he's invoiced, we'll delay the payment of VAT. Of course, the Council of Ministers, here I see yesterday and the Board of Directors for indirect taxation has no ear for such proposals, will remain all the same, without talking about the possibility of collecting and paying VAT on the paid realisation, which would be a real help to the economy and what would really help the economy to breathe. But in this case, what do we have? We have that even now in the conditions of crisis and epidemics, economic operators are paying VAT according to the invoiced realization whether it is charged or not and it may suffer large, but small people who have income, I don't know, up to 200 – 300 000 marks can't bear it and it's very difficult for them, but it wasn't thought about it, or debated. Of these laws that we have on the agenda today, there are few, but here I see the Council of Ministers has proposed two, MPs have proposed seven, perhaps four laws that go towards savings in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers must do its job, they have data, they know what the VAT drop is, they know what the revenue drop is and they don't even think about increasing the BiH institutions' budget, it's 950 million, in it 750 million are VAT revenues. The question is, will we be able to achieve that 750 million in 2020, and we can see that we are already spending as if, I don't know, we're almost there by June. So this bill of law that's been sent is the only thing that's come, here's the next thing we have this Excise Act, regarding these alcohols, etc. and a proposal from these MPs concerning the reduction of salaries, i.e. budget savings. We have nothing from the Council of Ministers, we have no measure
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6871	Mrs. Pekić, you've been talking for eight minutes, and five minutes is a restriction. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6872	I'm sorry, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6873	All right, finish your thought... finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6874	Yes, I expect the Council of Ministers to refer to the House of Representatives certainly and a proposal for measures and a proposal to amend the laws in order to help the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6875	Thank you, Mrs. Pekić. I remind you that we are discussing the urgency of the procedure, that at last session, at the beginning of the session, the same session, limited the debate to five minutes. You have all the time on your monitor, get right into the red. The word is Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6876	I thank the chairman. I support the emergency procedure, I support the law, I support the proposal's intention to discuss this. I would just like to remind myself that, in September 2017, it was the initiative of the Council of Ministers that businessmen, supported by 30,000 signatures of businessmen, together with the Association of Young Cult, that I was the one who sent the initiative, that VAT for companies that, up to a certain traffic limit, would pay for smaller companies under the invoice, and not as businesses say in advance today. The initiative was first rejected by the Directorate for indirect taxation, and then, according to them, in their opinion and by the Council of Ministers. After that, we instructed the initiative to pay VAT instead of 10 at the end of the month, which is the subject of today's Law. At that time, it was said, or the Council of Ministers then told us that if such a proposal were not acceptable to them, then what Mr. Zvizdić proposed, and what I did not agree with at the time, and I am glad that today this is on the agenda, so that it would require changes in the numerous legal provisions, as well as changes in the business processes in the administration. The Council of Ministers then told that amending certain legal provisions would make business difficult for the orderly taxpayer. Also, in order to lead to charging disturbances and the distribution of revenue achieved. So this is the position of the Council of Ministers in October 2017 on this law that is today, here is the proposer Mr. Zvizdić. To be precise, Mr. Zvizdić was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but his opinion was different then, and he pointed out in public his support for the proposal that I had at the time. So, I'm not adjudicating him, but I want to be honest with you that he was representing this attitude back then. Why am I quoting the Council of Ministers? Because it could very easily happen to repeat the same attitude that, in my opinion, is completely wrong, which is made out of the corner of those who think about not how to preserve the industry, but how to fill the budget so that it can be very comfortable with it. I think the solution is somewhere half, keep the budget stable, but help the businessmen. And I will just say one more sentence, at the beginning of this term, five, that is, when the Council of Ministers was formed, one of my questions in the Commission for the formation of the Council of Ministers to Mr Bevanda was precisely this issue, since in the previous term it was not support, would you now support at least this move from the 10th at the end of the month? He then, too, has a stenogram, promised, or said that he had his consent when it comes to something like that and that it is one of the measures that can be adopted. Therefore, the support of Mr Zvizdić and this proposal is the opposite of what I had in 2017, but I will be one of the advocates and promoters and lobbyists to pass this Law regardless of who proposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6877	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6878	Good afternoon, welcome to the chairman and all present in the hall and guests. So when it comes to the Proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, I will not support, therefore, an urgent, or urgent procedure, and I may agree that this is just one good material, the starting material for a possible debate in a regular procedure or possibly a shortened procedure, but it would be best in a regular procedure. So why won't I agree? Because the predecessors, this one, who had already spoken before me and answered that question, when Mr. Zvizdić was chairman of the Council of Ministers, had plenty of time to deal with this law, he did not do so of course. The explanation may now be that there was no crown at the time, that there was no situation like this and that now it's doing it for a limited amount of time. I am also sorry that this time I will use this proposal to discuss it in another way, if there is a debate about and haste procedure is accepted, because I have never done so when he was chairman of the Council of Ministers, it seems to me to be a pragmatic and such a correct politician who has thought well about his moves, but this time it does not seem to me. A Koleginica before me said, she expects it to be the Council of Ministers. So, the Council of Ministers simply can't, here, get an expression when you have a proposal from a colleague who is also a member of the College, and he has a minister of finance, so it's not the position of this club, at least on a proposal, but his and now we're in a situation where we're, uh, discussing an emergency procedure for amending such an important law. The only thing I'm satisfied with right now is that he's in a hurry or emergency procedure is that apparently small changes are, yes, apparently small changes. So I would ask him before we go into debate about what was proposed, so he can come back for the pay phone again, so he can explain to us the advantages of this proposal, and this 90 days, and possibly a new 90 days, because he didn't really explain anything except that he's going to help the businessmen, these are just kind of kind of words, but is there at least a concrete example, to see how big or small owners in VAT will be helped? So, as far as I know about it, I'm not from that profession, VAT, so if some of them haven't worked, they haven't put out an account for their services or products, so they don't even have to pay the VAT, so I can't pay it if they haven't sent the bill. And this is the problem, obviously, which has been present for a long time, that's what my colleagues said before me, and that this should be resolved on one serious approach, because the urgency can lead us to the inconclusive consequences of these changes, and in these 90 days, as far as I know the position of the Fiscal Council is not like this, as far as I know, the Ministry of Finance's position is not like this, and I would therefore ask that, before we choose this to be an emergency or an emergency point, that Mr. Zvizdić will try to convince us, therefore, at least one example of how this 6 is, this proposal helps the economy, the economy, the economy, the economy, and however he wants to say, to be a little clearer. So, one sentence that it will help to pay off at the end of the month, and not on, I don't know, now that it's paid off and it'll be satisfactory for us to get into such an adventure. So I would ask, therefore, one more comment about it before I plead, but I would also like to suggest that this may remain some sort of material that may be used for a regular discussion and for a thorough discussion of what the colleague was talking about and that we come up with a definitive solution, if it really helps the economy in future, in future efforts and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6879	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Denis Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6880	Thank you, Chairman. I did not, of course, come out to answer the asked question of the esteemed representative Lovrinović, because from his presentation it is quite clear that he knows very little about this issue and the essence of the bill's proposal, but I came out to remind again that the deadline extending VAT payments is not only 90 days, but that, if necessary, it could be another 90 days, so it is six months, which is an extraordinary instrument for the Council of Ministers to react in the event of not only this pandemic, but any other natural accident that could lead to economic and economic flows disturbances in BiH. Had we had this law before, it would not have been necessary for the Council of Ministers to wait for Parliament this long, at least two or three months that did not sit, but would have an instrument that could automatically act and help the economy. Six months is always enough to look at and analyse the causes of economic, economic consequences, establish economic flows and, of course, help businesses. Therefore, this Law does not cancel that I do not enter into the essence of the Law before discussing the Law, it does not repeal Article 39. The VAT law, the member remains, this is the addition of a member who gives an instrument to the Council of Ministers that in the event of a pandemic, a natural accident or any other economic disturbance in Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic flows, he can immediately renegotiate with his measures, that is the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6881	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6882	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6883	And changed, Nikola Lovrinović, it was ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6885	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm so sorry that Mr. Zvizdić answered me this first sentence, maybe I don't know, Mr. Zvizdić, nothing about this, but teach me. Now, you know, you were the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and now you're telling us that it was supposed to be like this, that you didn't work when you were able and you were the chairman of the Council, you were in the parliamentary majority, the finance minister now you have, you don't have the club's attitude, you don't have the fiscal council's position, you don't have the Council of Ministers' attitude, or they're the opposite, you didn't comment on it, you're just telling that story again. I may be stupid so I can't understand what you're saying, but it would be nice if as a colleague, I still decide here in this House, to teach me, so what I don't know and I begged you an example, on an economic subject or something, however you want, to convince us here that it will bring him help, to that economic operator, and to solve it as much today as we should have done yesterday. What you've given me is an honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6886	Thank you. Now Mr. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6887	I really don't get it, colleague Lovrinović, while in this country all progressive ideas will be material for thinking and analysis. So this isn't the first time, like this isn't your first term, to discuss this. The VAT law is one of the most important laws dealing with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. You've considered different initiatives, amendments to the law, multiple times, these analyses you've had as an agent, whether or not you've read it or not I don't know, but to say to someone whose first term this is, I'd say okay, but this was not the first time we've talked about this. Well, I don't know, but obviously you haven't read, 30,000 businessmen signed this initiative, you don't need Zvizdić, Saša or anyone else to talk, you've got ten of them safely on the phone, come out for three minutes and do a survey, ask them what you think you need this. You communicate with your friends, here's what doesn't matter who people are, 30,000 of them signed this. And then we need to agree three years after what we had in the last term and ask Bog how many years after this idea first appeared, that this would be our thinking material. Well, it's fairer to say we won't. But I think it's unfair not to go in this direction, no matter who the proposer is and no matter when proposed, this has to be done one day. Call your business friends and ask them what they think.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6888	Thank you. I remind you once again, we are talking about an emergency procedure, a debate on the law is yet to come. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 8 So look, resisting this amendment and supplementing the law, I think, here as a member of the parliamentary majority, that it is not right, especially by citing the reasons why the Ministry of Finance has no opinion, no opinion from the Council of Ministers, etc. And as we can see, here after two and a few months we have the first regular and serious, so to speak, House's session. We had no single proposal, no single measure from the Council of Ministers, or any ministry that would be in favour of facilitating the emerging situation, especially for businessmen. That's why I think it's wrong to oppose this legal solution, if anything here is a good intention, let's see what the effects will be. And here is the Council of Ministers, as we see in the agenda, there is not a single bill that actually promotes and facilitates life for our business and for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I think this legal solution should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6890	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6891	Well, I'll fix one wrong warrant from a colleague of Magazinović. It's interesting that some colleagues have a monopoly on progressive ideas, how we're going to automatically recognize that it's progressive, and someone else has only regressive ideas. But I can agree in one part with Mr Magazinović's presentation that the VAT law is one of the most important laws regarding fiscal and financial policy, and when we have an important law, it is not good to change it by an urgent procedure and it is not good to build on this amendment of the law, so to speak, derogating the role of Parliament. Here we leave a legal provision in this law that leaves the Council of Ministers with its act, regulation or something to change not only in this case, it is not limited to 90+90 days of this pandemic, but also to future imaginary cases that may be very different. So, we leave Parliament's jurisdiction to a part of the Council of Ministers permanently, so if we leave it to ourselves when we pass and if we pass a law like this we haven't changed the payment provision, about the delayed payment by 20 days or 10 days of VAT, because this law didn't say it had to be from 10 to 30, but it could be until the last day of the month. But it must again be done by the Council of Ministers, who we have already heard that in the section of the competent ministry is not in agreement with this proposal, so before we decide on an emergency procedure, even before we decide on the adoption of such a law, and here we have the Council of Ministers chairman, it would be good to hear from him whether he will use this tool at all if he gets it, which is the most important thing in all of this. Why would we bring this if the Council of Ministers didn't use that tool? Later on, I'll talk about the law itself, if it's possible in any way he's in the procedure, either in the ER, or in any other, regular, etc. procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6892	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr Enver Bijedić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6893	9 Thank you, I welcome all present. Well, in any case, the correction is, referring to Mr. Lovrinović, an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act is necessary, companies have suffered huge damages and have lost insolvency in this time of two months or how long it will be extended, and an example of where in the economy, according to my colleague Lovrinović, it could be shown in one positive way why this law is needed if you have company A, Mr. Lovrinović, which produces raw materials and sells to the company B which makes the finished product, so that company C will sell company A must pay VAT within 10 days, and unfortunately at this point when they lost the insolvency is not possible. That is why this Law is necessary and needs to be passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6894	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6895	I had no intention of offending anyone by calling the idea progressive, especially my colleague Kožul, not you and this one, and I think that if anyone has realized against this that I am insulting him, so it is not true that I do not agree deeply with the further challenge of a progressive law in the BiH Parliament. I can't believe we're looking after five, seven, or I don't know how many years of extra time to analyze. So what have you been doing so far? Well, there are analyses, so what if today was on the agenda of a proposal that also didn't get support three years ago, when I suggested that the daily late interest from 0.04 be reduced to 0.02 then you'd probably say, so stop that's something new to us. Well, it's not new, they have analysis, they have demands, they have models, and in the end there's a healthy logic that more interest, a penalty, a pen of company pays to the state when a few days late pay VAT than if you took a loan from the bank and paid that VAT. So more takes the state than the bank, so if they were, then the answer is, hey, stop and let's see. Finally, since I will no longer answer, I have no right, my colleague Lovrinović, Kožul, here Stevandić, to watch anyone in this room, whoever suggests anything that is on the trail of the demands of the businessmen, I will lobby, support and be someone who will help that law pass and let us get rid of ourselves once in Parliament that it is important not to what is proposed, but who has proposed it. Call your friends businessmen what they say, that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6896	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6897	I will also not have any more rights, because here I have cracked my right to replicate, that is, the corrections of the wrong allegation I use, so I may not even have anything special to say to Mr. Magazinović who, therefore, is part of the opposition in this, in this House of Representatives, this, when he says, even though I have to correct it, I have never once said that I am against this, I am only against an emergency procedure or an emergency procedure and I am asking it to be carried out through regular procedure through the Council of Ministers and this and all that he was talking about. He doesn't mind, and then when he spoke two, three years ago we didn't even discuss it in the House, I don't remember saying anything against either one or another or he draws conclusions out of what I am. So, I didn't say I was against, and especially Mr. Mehmedović, 10 who, therefore, don't know who you're teaching. Mr. Mehmedović, you expect the HDZ with five hands, so here is something that you don't do with ten hands, your Council of Ministers Chairman... and now you remember, therefore, that there is a problem with VAT, with interest, whatever this, whatever this, I don't mind, I don't mind that Mr. Zvizdić, only it irritates me that colleagues from the parliamentary majority, who have mechanisms, to make this a proposal from the Council of Ministers, come here to Parliament, and then, of course, that our colleague Saša Magazinović can and should hold a lecture. Of course, that we need to teach, because we have mechanisms, and we don't do what we have to do, and then we come here and listen to the teaching here, and we need to listen to them, and then I still need to hear from you, Mr. Mehmedović, and I need you to listen to the teaching, so do something to suggest, that at least the club proposes this. Why didn't the club suggest this to you? What did Mr. Zvizdić and Mrs. Borjan sit down with Mr. Radmanović and say, you know, I'm going to suggest this, would you sign this? What didn't he sit with me, with the club president? So come on, here, you convinced us, here we are, outside of these speakers, outside of these shows here, if you would support it, that's why and for that, here's why I'm not happy with the answer again, so maybe we would sign it, so that would be a parliamentary majority proposal, if it wasn't already the Council of Ministers. It's just that we keep pretending to be naive, and then here it's like some kind of opposition. To finish this again, so I don't mind, this is a serious law, there are serious objections, so there are serious consequences and they can't be dealt with urgently, I want to get rid of it in one regular procedure, to get the Council of Ministers' position, here is the Council Chairman, the Fiscal Council, all of this well knows Mr. Zvizdić, I'm not saying, I'm not making up hot water. But, so, this is how you do it, and all the time, it's not the first time anymore, but we'll talk about what he says when it comes to this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6898	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6899	I'm sorry to call again, but look, it's obvious that my colleague Lovrinović wasn't listening at all to what I was saying. Yes, I belong to the parliamentary majority and my colleague, Zvizdić, but it is sad, and here we are trying not to do anything, as you say, it is unfortunate that our Council of Ministers, which we have chosen and which we support, has not proposed a single law, nor any measure that would prevent such a situation. So, of course, there's no need to raise your voice in your debate, especially not on me, you don't have the right to do it, but in any case praise is worth every attempt to do anything for this economy that's going through very difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6900	Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6901	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Lovrinović, therefore and related and what Mr. Magazinović was saying and Mr. Mehmedović, I think it is really necessary because Mr. Lovrinović is doing this from mandate to mandate, from session to session, that it is necessary to make it very clear what Mr. Lovrinović's real motives are. So, he here constantly, whenever some MP 11 proposes any law, insists that MPs, although we are a legislator, should not be legislators of the law but that this should be done by the Council of Ministers and when you look at mathematics, his motive is very clear, the HDZ in this House of Representatives has five MPs of 42, and in the Council of Ministers have three ministers of nine, with the right to veto and, of course, Mr Lovrinović insists that all these legislative activities be transferred to the Council of Ministers where HDZ has 33.3% power of decision and where the veto is on top of that. And that's why I really appeal, not only on this bill proposal, where I also support the emergency procedure and the bill itself, but also all those who come after this, we have a large agenda, because we haven't been sitting for two months thanks to the inactivity of the College, but I am appealing to all MPs to stop more stories about the fact that legislative, or members of the legislative body should not propose laws. It is so far beyond reason that such a sentence, that members of the legislative body should not propose laws, that they bore someone because they are constantly proposing some laws, is for Monti Pajton, for the Nadrealist, and I don't know what kind of satirical magazine or portal, you're destroying the reputation and subjecting this Parliament to ridicule when Members of Parliament say something like that. So much and here's to remind the chairman, although the figures here show one, Mr. Lovrinović reported for the third line and no more rights to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6902	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6903	So, Mr. Arnaut is talking about the character and work of counterpart Nikola Lovrinović, and he's not talking about the agenda point. So it doesn't stand, it doesn't stand, so, on the draft law in the Council of Ministers, it can be vetoed, it doesn't just stand, don't make it up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6905	You can't speak from the scene, so you said, you had your word and you'll have more times today, please let us be parliamentary. Mr. Lovrinović, are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6906	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6907	Yes, it is. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6908	12 Listening carefully to my colleagues, I do not know from Saša Magazinović, and from others, in the sense of believing that we should support this request to discuss changes to the VAT Act by emergency procedure, I really do not know what it is leading to. Does this mean that if BiH's HDZ has five hands or five of its representatives in this House of Representatives, it does not have the right to its position, especially because it is based on reason and is actually systematic. Because someone else has a different attitude, none of us have said it, but we simply want to express our position. I also came out here to confirm once again what my colleague Lovrinović said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club of BiH, this Law and at the moment there is no reason to consider it as an emergency procedure. In fact, I'm going to use what I'm going to say and when it comes to the law, we have a situation where VAT is paid on the sales of well-produced services, so those who don't have traffic don't have, meaning, no obligation to pay, it's clear to everyone. Moving the deadline leads to a decline, i.e. a decrease in income that due to a decline in consumption is certainly reduced, which ultimately leads to imbalances in the budget, when we know what number is left, I don't know, and without a job etc. in other ways. So, if it was intended in some way to help the economies and the economy in this pandemic situation, then it would be more appropriate for intervention in this Law to be made regarding those provisions of criminal law that regulate the intolerance of criminal application at a given time. This is therefore all the reasons why they could only discuss when considering amendments to the VAT Act in the ordinary procedure. On the other hand, I will repeat what it is, it is not by accident and our Rules of Procedure that when such a law is systematic, which relates to both the functioning and on which it depends, the functioning of the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this, that is, to be considered in a way that gives its opinion to a resolution ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers, is given to the Administration for indirect taxation, because once again, it is a systematic law. I don't see any reason for what's controversial or because it's a problem because someone put a different attitude here when it comes to considering this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6909	Thank you. Four reported, correcting the wrong quote Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6910	I thank the chairman. Dear counterpart Krišto stated in this discussion that those who do not have income do not have an obligation to pay VAT. However, I just want to react, to say that this is not about paying VAT taxes, it is about filing a complaint, because in Article 39(3), the obligor submits a VAT application regardless of whether it is obliged to pay VAT in the period for which the application is submitted. Thus, these proposed additions to the VAT Act relate to the VAT application, not to payment. Because it was treated in a way that it would be a provisional decision by the Council of Ministers and it all refers to the application. And I would like to remind you that there are economic operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that in problems, precisely because of these provisions of the VAT Act, and I will talk about it a little later, and therefore I support an emergency procedure, a respected member of the College, Mr. Zvizdić. However, in the materials I received, I do not see that this is Mr. Zvizdić's proposal anywhere, because this proposal is the addition of the VAT Act by an accompanying act delivered before the chairman's House of Representatives, only in the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector can it be seen that this is Mr. Zvizdić's proposal. So I would ask in the future that the same treatment be done to all MPs, because when we submit a proposal we have to submit our accompanying act and signed by the motionor, or 13 MPs, in this case it is not. Those who are not VAT bonds, they cannot understand how important it is to enable BiH business entities and VAT bonds to submit applications by the end of the month compared to the last month when it occurred
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6911	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6912	tax liability. I therefore support this urgent procedure, but later in the discussion, I will make a concrete comment on a concrete proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6913	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr Enver Bijedić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6914	Thank you. Well, it is mentioned here whether anyone has the right to an opinion, as Mrs. Krišto said, that is not at all controversial, but it is the principles of who has the right to propose laws. We can have, of course, different opinions, so we'll vote on it. But if we wait for the opinion of the Commission in this law, meaning not the opinion of the individual, the opinion of the commission or the Council of Ministers who, for their known reasons, have not spoken out on this, we will lose the basic function of this Law, and that is not an urgency in the procedure, it is an urgency in helping the economy, the fundamental function of the Law is to urgently help the economy. If we wait for the opinion of the committee or the Council of Ministers, it's the same as if there was a smaller fire here right now, and we all get out and wait for the firemen to come, and none of us would try to do anything, I don't think it's Parliament's function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6915	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6916	Dear Emrić, I listened carefully to what you said in your review through the correction of the wrong quote, but if you listened carefully to me then you had to hear that I said that VAT is paid for the goods and services performed. So I wasn't talking in that part of the application, but just when I was pushing for my position to go into the regular procedure and when we're talking about the application, I said that we can intervene through the application that it might not be going in this way by moving the deadline or possibly in this procedure, but that some intervention in these provisions is being carried out through the criminal provisions, so in other words, it regulates the possible movement or non-payment of certain penalties for potentially helping the economy in terms of submitting the application that you were talking about. So I would beg you and everyone else, especially when we talk about things that are systematic and about the law to be at least so correct to ourselves, if not to someone else. 14 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6917	jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6918	I thank my esteemed colleague, but I think I listened very carefully and that you said that whoever had no income would not have the obligation to pay VAT, and that seems to me to say so, and that is very different from the obligation to apply. So, the application must also be submitted by the non-income person, if the taxpayer did not have income in the previous month he has to submit a VAT application, the Law does not exempt him from filing the application. If you do not submit an application, regardless of your income, the Directorate for indirect taxation initiates the mandatory payment procedure and then you have the costs of the procedure, regardless of your income, and you did not file a VAT application until 10 in the month, you must submit a tax application or, respectively, the Directorate for indirect taxation will already open the emergency payment procedure by 11. My company is a taxpayer of VAT, I file a VAT application every month until 10th, and I know well what the consequences are if you even pay VAT 10th and the bank doesn't register, 11th you'll get a solution to initiate the mandatory payment procedure and you'll have to pay 5% on the VAT bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6919	Thank you. I have four applications for discussion and I'm asking if this is a discussion of an emergency procedure or a discussion of the law? Please, after voting on an emergency procedure, we are having a debate on the law as a whole. So, are four reported, here we start with Mr. Nermin Nikšić, talking about the law or the urgency of the procedure? Mr. Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6920	Well, that's exactly what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that's what I later signed up for, considering this was an emergency procedure debate, and I wanted to talk about the law,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6921	Well, I guess it's all four of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6922	However, I see everyone talking about the law, so I will, I will apply for a debate on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6923	So, Mr. Stevandić, Mektić, Vulić, is it about the law or the urgency of the procedure, please? Mr. Stevandić, you have your word if you're about the urgency of the procedure, and you're fine. Mr. Mektić is it about the urgency of the procedure or the law? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6924	15 Thank you, Chairman. I welcome my fellow Members and fellow Members and immediately to say as far as I'm concerned, I will support this law in an emergency procedure, although it would be better if we had the opportunity to come after general analysis by the Council of Ministers here and to look at how and how we can help our economy and our economy. I'm not happy, again, because of some qualifications here, but it's said here to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis and other economic disturbances. Well, we've been in this state for 20 years and in economic crisis and in economic disturbances, but I'm saying it again because it's in the interest of our real sector and our businessmen I'll support it and I'll always support it even if it's part of something as soon as something can be fixed to help them. And why this didn't come to regular procedure, for years the leaders of the political parties have been sitting down, discussing this issue under pressure from the real sector and economy, give us a better situation, let us survive in some situation. So who does the analysis? How am I supposed to propose one law of this kind after an analysis has been carried out, who's going to run the analysis? And enough of that story more, you were on the Council of Ministers for not doing it, we were doing it the way we did, Parliament was evaluating or not evaluating our work, after all, because if we were better maybe we'd been on the Council of Ministers and we paid our price for it, but don't keep going back to someone, something that while you were not you and you hadn't done this. Why is the emergency procedure, so please see today, take a look at the agenda, item 5 of the emergency procedure, all the motions of the MPs or the group of MPs, point 6 of the emergency procedure, point 7 of the emergency procedure, point 8 of the emergency procedure, point 9 of the emergency procedure, so you know why? Well, because the Council of Ministers doesn't work and doesn't offer solutions, it doesn't adapt to this situation, we only act ad hoc, only when we get hit by evil, when we get hit by an accident, then it's normal for MPs to react in this way to try to save what's being saved and help this economy. But we do not have a legal proposal in terms of some reforms, in terms of facilitating and giving some better opportunities to work our economy, and that is why we are in this situation to act in this way. And to me personally, we share here today on those who want and intend to help businesses no matter how much they don't want, that's my attitude, my opinion, I know it can be that replica, it can be anything, but we're dealing with replicas just to answer someone, we're not facing here with arguments at all, you said this, I said what, you didn't say, good heard etc. etc. And we're fighting here, and we're not really doing anything smart. Just ask yourself why we have five emergency procedures today and you can see that each of these proposals is the answer to some crisis and some kind of bad situation that has hit us. Tomorrow when there's a fire, tomorrow when there's... this kind of accident, tomorrow when there's an accident like that, there's no system solutions, and we're gonna get what's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6925	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6926	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6927	Miss Vulić, is it about the law or the urgency?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6928	And give me a discussion about the urgency of course, the urgency of the matter. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6929	16 here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6930	First, I think it is more than hypocritical to talk about the care of citizens and business entities, and to keep 330m euros in captivity from IMF assistance. You are refusing to help the international community, and as you wish to help yourselves, you also want to help the citizens of BiH. This bill of law, and by an urgent procedure for me, is a farce and an attempt to demean the Council of Ministers, especially if we consider that this Law does not comply with Article 14. The law on the indirect taxation system, which stipulates that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is responsible for determining the policy of indirect taxation for implementation throughout BiH. I would also like to stress that those who came from America, so they think that they are much smarter than all of us, which is, is, is their legitimate right, but also as great lawmakers, they should know that the MP never has the mechanisms as executive power to prepare the bill, or the law, and can never one MP replace 70 to 80 employees in a particular ministry or Council of Ministers. That is why I absolutely disagree with this urgency, and I believe that this is another one in a number of political and media attention needs, with all due respect for the promoters. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6931	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6932	Thank you, Chairman. You see, when it comes to the IMF, this is an extremely false allegation, so the IMF's assets are being blocked by Mr Bevanda from HDZ, so from the same party that Mr Lovrinović comes from, and precisely because of this, let's all go naked, precisely because of these IMF funds and the brakes Mr Bevanda is holding SNSD can't support the verdict of the Ustasha regime, it was clear at the last session, and it's even clearer now. Now, with this, about 80, 90 employees and their abilities relative to individual MPs, this bill, if you have opened it, I have, if I have seen correctly, two members – is that right, Mr. Zvizdić? Do you really think it takes 80, 90 employees to work on a bill that has two members? The Rules of Procedure prescribe the possibility of emergency procedures in two cases, if the law is such a high degree of urgency or if it is formulated in a simple way that it can be adopted in one reading. This bill of law and all those who are in emergency procedures today meet both of those provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure you don't need eight, nine members of the professional service, let alone 80, 90 to write a bill containing two members. On the contrary, with such rhetoric, you send a message to citizens that this and such a massive administration should be further aligned, and that is the opposite of the practices of modern democratic countries, including the United States in which some of us have learned this best practice and we are trying to apply it in addition to all these obstacles here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6933	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6934	Thank you, Chairman. The correction of the wrong allegation is to bring into the context of decisions and the behaviour of the SNSD Club on the resolution on the condemnation of the Ustasha regime with this point of the agenda. I'm not going to elaborate a thought stream now and possibly... that can come out of such a thought stream when they can connect these two things, except to say that it really has nothing to do with it, and about the evolution of that kind of, I say, the thought flow is really inappropriate that we're talking here today in public at all. I'm going to use this call to say that indeed, uh, urgently, the Law and changes in the VAT system certainly have room to improve, but go to an emergency procedure when we all know that there are a number of regulations that regulate this area and that we have a great opportunity to disrupt systems, I don't really know who we need to explain what we can do with such an emergency procedure and the inability of adequate analysis and the adoption of proper measures. Therefore, here I am really asking my colleagues to refrain, and here is how much we are discussing the strict attention of some MPs is never clearly enough, so please, this really isn't the subject on which you should be populist and I don't know what performances you're doing. Here's how much I'm asking you, the chairman, that we go if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6935	Thank you, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6936	As for the debate on the urgency of the VAT amendment procedure, I, somehow, articulated myself through the corrections of the wrong allegation, but here I felt further clarification because of my colleague Emrić, who, I am glad when he said he listened carefully, had already repeated the same thing twice, and I will again use the debate to point out the reasons and arguments why and that, in my discussions through the corrections of the wrong allegations, I clearly distinguished the obligation to pay the VAT from submitting the application. Well, fellow Emrić, when we talk about facts and that, and I like to perform so much, I have made it clear, and I will repeat again, VAT is paid for the traffic of goods, goods and services performed so that those who do not have a duty to pay. As for applying and helping the economy in terms of this, I said, if it was really intended to help the economy, it might be more appropriate to intervene in the provisions of criminal law which may be related to the movement or breach of the deadline for submitting a VAT application. So, once again, I stress this is our position, if it is necessary to amend the VAT Act, and it is probably necessary, to do so in the ordinary procedure, to open up other options when we know that the laws adopted by an emergency procedure in the parliamentary procedure are adopted as a matter of principle taken or left. If we all intend to help the economy, then let's all hear relevant about what other proposals might be, specifically, when it comes to amending the VAT law to help the economy. I want to help that economy, but I have to tell you here at this pay phone, that I got ten e-mails from the businessmen, which are different associations, which say this isn't helping the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6937	18 Miss Sanja Vulić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6938	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. So just so it doesn't stay unclear, it's important to me for all those who are watching and following this, to point out that the number of members of the amendments to the law does not reflect whether they are systemic or not, and I'm not talking about statistics, but essentially. The basic law that is trying to change is systemic. As soon as you take it or leave it unseriously, what do we need parliamentary commissions to discuss, and the House decides, then the House and the Commission and the decision-making, and in this respect my debate went on, and I think that we need to respect all those who need to do their job and for whom they are paid, and we need to do our job for which we are paid, not to mix and make various scenes and plays here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6939	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6940	There's that Latin saying - nomin sant odiosis. Of course, my colleague Arnaut doesn't need to stick to her, so Mr. Bevanda says he's accusing her of blocking any funds. I will remind him that Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda is the Minister of Finance in the Council of Ministers and, in accordance with his competences, he takes care of the legality of the ministry's work, the legality of decision-making, all decisions and decisions concerning IMF funds. Nothing is blocking him, and it is very important to say, that such an ugly finding expressed in this House should be answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6941	Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6942	I would correct the quote of my colleague Vulić, who says that we should do the work for which we are paid, and it seems that it does not include proposing legislation and that every legal regulation is part of some system and part of the Bosnia and Herzegovina legislative system at all, but it seems that the concept is being systematically used only when it wants to stop the actual adoption of the law. I'd just like to remind you of Article 104. A Rules of Procedure which says that proposings are authorised, means MPs, the House Commission, the Joint Commission, the House of Peoples, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers within their respective responsibilities. So as MPs here, we do our job when we propose laws, and the emergency procedure also determines, among other things, the simplicity of the law. This Law has met both conditions, because it is aimed at addressing the consequences caused by the epidemic of the virus by the economy and the second, it is simple enough to adopt it in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6943	Miss Sanja Vulić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6944	19 Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Lepić, I know perfectly what the rights and obligations of the MPs are, don't think that I haven't read all the details, but also, the obligation of all of us to respect others, and in this case, the absolute demeaning of the Council of Ministers is in force, which I certainly won't be silent about, and the fact is that in this case, as I have already said, Article 14. The law on an indirect taxation system that is prescribed that the UIO Management Board is responsible for establishing a policy on indirect taxation for implementation throughout BiH. So, thank you for the suggestion, but I know perfectly what our obligations are, rights and possibilities, but it is also important that we respect all those who work in this system, make proposals of the law and decide, which you definitely don't. To tell you the truth, when it comes to you and this club of yours being compensated, I am absolutely not surprised by your need for constant popularity and the need to at least once get a mandate directly, not through compensation. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6945	Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6946	Well, I'll start at the end, I thought from the beginning, but I'll start from the end of my colleague's statement. So here we are all of the same status, regardless of how we entered this House and really constantly some repetitive number of votes, whether it's a compensation list or a direct choice, I don't think I see the purpose, since we are all here, therefore, equal rights and equal status, and I believe that regardless of the fact that I came to this House through a compensation mandate, that I have justified the citizens' trust with my activity from the very beginning of this House's work. And the second correction of the wrong allegation would refer to the colleague's claim that this is about demeaning the Council of Ministers, I don't know how. We, therefore, would be very happy to discuss today the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers in order to overcome the crisis. Since it is not, it is obvious that certain MPs considered it necessary for them to intervene. So this is in no way a demeaning of the Council of Ministers, but it is work for them, since they did not do what they needed to do. And here it is, a colleague, it seems to me that Šemsudin has already said, we already have an announcement of a Council of Ministers meeting where there are hundreds of points and there is not one point that speaks of how to overcome the crisis caused by the pandemic in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6947	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6948	Not to paraphrase anyone, since this is how it's been happening lately, I can accept everything, and somehow swallow this, but to say that this is about populism, it's really hypocritical and rude to those to whom this law should apply. Do you guys always think people aren't your problems, they're not in crisis, and that this is about pure populistism? So this is the result of one, let me put it this way, of the situation of natural disaster that has put people in such a position that they can't survive this in the economic sense of the word. So don't, don't, don't belittle these people, don't be downplaying that private sector and the real sector 20, and say it's populism, and they don't need it at all, and that doesn't matter to them at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6949	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on an emergency procedure after an hour and 10 minutes in which nine MPs twice used the correction of the wrong allegation. We're choosing to vote. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. For 24, v. 9, abstention 2. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I'm finding an emergency request has been passed. I'm opening a debate on the law. Mr. Denis Zvizdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6950	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Once again, welcome to all MPs and MPs. At first, I would like to say that even at the time of the Council of Ministers that I chaired, there were several initiatives that were related to the pro-longing of VAT applications and payments that mainly came from chambers of commerce from all levels, and from many employers' associations. I must at first clarify the possible dilemma, if they have some MPs, that I am always in the Council of Ministers who I chaired for such an idea to accept the prolonging and reporting and payment of VAT for the end of the month. Unfortunately, during that period or several times, we failed to reach a consensus in the Council of Ministers on the matter even though, of course, we were doing so on the basis of a number of demands from businessmen and trying. Meetings and demands of employers, chambers of commerce and businessmen regarding this issue of VAT prolonging continued in continuity and with the appointment of the new Council of Ministers of BiH and, if I remember well, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija held a meeting with businessmen at the end of last year, i.e. with the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska employers, which agreed on the formation of five working groups. Among them is one group that would deal with the VAT Act and when it comes to the need to amend the VAT Act, therefore, we had information that the group that is to discuss VAT, will deal primarily with the shift of VAT collection deadlines, because VAT businessmen are reporting and paying for the 10th month for the previous month, although in most cases they are not charging their claims for one, two, three or more months. After this meeting of the Honorable President tegeltija, we were informed that a high degree of consent was reached in connection with the moveover of the VAT payment deadline. At the same time, after this proposal for a law supplementing the VAT Act appeared in the procedure itself, they responded, of course, primarily from the Federation of Employers Association of the Federation of BiH, and I also received hundreds of e-mails and messages of support on this Law. So, for example, the president of the Federation of BiH Employers Association, Mr Adnan Smailbegović, said that employers had asked several years ago to move the date of 21 VAT payments for the end of the month, and that now at the time of the pandemic and, of course, the economic consequences caused by this pandemic were even more important because it was literally threatened to survive a number of businesses in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He also pointed out that the proposal, which had its effects in the previous period, was very detailedly analysed and that there should be no significant impact on the financial liquidity or on the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity, and that the analysis conducted by the Federation of BiH Employers' Association would clearly show that the shift of the VAT payment deadline from the 10th to the last day of the month would free up between 100 and even 150 million KM for business flows and business entities, and a similar situation in Republika Srpska would be more than a significant financial injection at this point for bh. the economy and would make a significant contribution, above all, to preserving jobs. Therefore, it is clear that there is no financial stability if the real sectors and if the economy is not stable, and that businesses, the real sector, are the most responsible for fiscal stability and ultimately, for the growth of VAT collection in recent years. A similar statement, when it comes to this Law and its effects, we heard from the president of the Republika Srpska's business president who said that the application of this measure would in some way leave money in cash flows, helped the liquidity of the economy, which is currently the most important issue in view of the interrupted cash flows. Therefore, it is clear that this Law is rooted in business, and therefore they, and employers' associations and almost all chambers of commerce, are dominantly, I repeat, dominantly supporting the law in question in order to enter the emergency procedure and be adopted. What is important to say, especially to underline, is the fact that I personally think that those who were immediately at the beginning when this proposal of the law appeared were against it were just those who did not read the proposed amendments to the VAT Act because the amendments and additions, these amendments and additions to the Law, were not deleted by Article 39, but were complemented by Article 39. This member is expanding and giving possibility to the BiH Council of Ministers as an executive body of government, so here I have to do a little crackdown, it is very strange actually that in some ways in the statements of some of my colleagues, MPs and MPs, who have said this, Parliament is afraid to give such powers to the Council of Ministers. So, we as a Parliament confirming the Council of Ministers as the largest executive body in Bosnia and Herzegovina are afraid to give the same largest executive body of BiH the instrument in our hands to help in the economic situation or in the recovery of the consequences of the economic crisis. So, it is a complete non-sensory to me in relations between Parliament and the Council of Ministers and we are not trying to reduce this in any way the importance of the Council of Ministers, but we are giving meaning to the Council of Ministers who do not have to in situations such as pandemics, natural disasters, floods, Bog's earthquakes, etc., can react without waiting two or three months for the BiH Parliament to meet. And another small crackdown, which is that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is not in power when we talk about VAT above Parliament. Parliament is above all, and above the Directorate for indirect taxation, and the Management Board for indirect taxation and the Council of Ministers of BiH, because this is a legislative body, not the Management Board of the ICC. Therefore, here we give the Council of Ministers the possibility as an executive body that should, in fact, under its duty, be most effective in monitoring the disturbances in the BiH economy, that it has an instrument to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis and other economic disturbances in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that in such cases it can make a decision to suspend the deadline for paying VAT taxes on the last day of the month for the previous month. Therefore, all analysis of chambers of commerce, employers' associations speak of very significant effects that would strengthen economic flows, cash flows and allow business operators to keep their jobs and maintain their 22 businesses. This deadline could, of course, be applied 90 days and, if necessary, in the event of an extension of the negative effects of the economic crisis, it could be extended to an additional 90 days. Depending on, of course, on global flows, on regional flows, from flows within BiH, but it is certainly six months always enough to establish economic flows, to make serious analyses of the consequences of any natural disaster, and to finally adopt measures, to adopt economic measures to help the real sector without which there is no charge, there is no payment of VAT, no charge of budgets of all levels, of which we are ultimately also receiving wages and we live. Unfortunately, I have also said this publicly many times, I have not seen this full role in the past Council of Ministers' period, on the contrary, I think it is trying to minimise the legal role of the Council of Ministers to help the economy and economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is multiple in terms of an adequate amendment to the VAT law, the Act on Excises, international activities and co-operation with international financial institutions, influences in changes and additions to procedures in customs policy, etc. Therefore, this law does not only enable now in the event of a pandemic to react to the Council of Ministers, but also in any future emergency situations that may have negative economic consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. The Council of Ministers would be able to decide whether there is a need to make temporary decisions, therefore, temporal decisions to move the VAT payment deadline. The basis in the importance of this instrument that we give to the Council of Ministers lies precisely in the fact that the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue empowers the Council of Ministers to decide on the declaration or termination of the state of nature or other accidents on BiH territory. If the Council of Ministers is already authorised to make a decision on the declaration of a natural or other accident, then it should be given an instrument that can immediately react and conduct analyses to prevent or resolve the negative economic consequences of such natural disasters or any other situation that disrupts economic, monetary, financial and business flows within BiH. And in the end, of course, no one prevents the Council of Ministers from having this Law too if adopted, to come out very quickly with more comprehensive amendments and additions to the VAT Act, in which it may give us a better, better quality solutions that will significantly help businesses. Here, if the Council of Ministers comes out with such a law and brings it to the regular procedure at the next session and proves, too, that it uses the economy and helps the real sector, here I will vote first for that law, even if it does and derogate the decisions or members of this one that I propose. But let's see this integrated law on changes and additions to the VAT Act that will benefit the economy and the real sector of BiH and aim to preserve jobs, because more than 35 and even 40,000 jobs have been lost in the last two months. So our economic operators don't have the ability to pay VAT. It wasn't in early March that the pandemic was declared, but in mid-March. They already reported VAT, did not collect their invoices, had to pay it off on April 10th. So we have to help them at this point. And finally, of course, I propose one conclusion within this item of the agenda, in the event that this proposal for a law is adopted, I propose the conclusion that the House of Representatives of the Assembly of BiH delivers the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value and requires that it be considered by an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6951	23 Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul, discussion. I remind you that the discussion is limited to five minutes. It's no problem to stick to, you all have on monitors time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6952	Thank you. Here, I will focus first on my debate on the metricity of this Law, first of all, on the way back to parliamentary frameworks, because the debate on the urgency of the Law was beyond these frameworks, and this is the law that really needs to be discussed, and who thinks that it should be adopted and who thinks that it should not be adopted, but should explain this position on the basis of the arguments and not deunciate the one who has a different view. I will remind you of legal solutions regarding legal solutions regarding helping the economy in this pandemic. So, three levels of government regarding the Federation. I'm going to talk about the Federation, because I know more about it, as far as Republika Srpska is concerned, the situation seems to me, similar or even better in terms of measures that I am undermining, short-term help or trying to help this... So, on the federal level, we have passed a law called "the Coronal Law" at Federation level. Almost all counties, cantons, I think, have passed their laws that are also trying to help the economy, in the short term, and all municipalities and local communities have made certain decisions within their jurisdiction to help the economy. You, those decisions and those laws are mostly about direct taxes. So, the Federation tries almost all the economy, almost all economic operators at Federation level, so all those who have a third month traffic drop, in the fourth month, etc., 20% and more compared to last year pay contributions to minimum salaries, help pay contributions in a way that... through contributions to minimum wages compared to about 250 marks per employee. The county mainly focused on the net salaries of those economic operators, which were banned or banned from economic activity by some, have been brought entirely into inability to work. Local communities have made some of their measures mainly concerning the release of certain obligations. In order to implement these measures, financial resources are needed. Most of the financial resources that these three levels of government in the Federation come from indirect taxes, excise duties and value added taxes. You are well aware that these indirect taxes will be significantly reduced during this period. By further prolonging the payments already so reduced, we will make it very difficult for the county and federal level of government to meet the obligations made under these laws. Of course, these measures taken at these levels are short-term measures. The economy will suffer to a far greater extent the long-term effects of the pandemic of the crisis, or the medium-term. I am in favour of the idea, to put it this way, that the question of indirect taxes, but in general, and value added taxes and different excise duties, is seen at one serious level as regards the removal of the medium- and long-term consequences of this crisis on the economy. And that's why I'm really not a supporter of ad hoc solutions that additionally burden these levels of government to implement these laws that are very important whatever we think of these measures. I must remind myself that especially at Federation level, the law of Republika Srpska also further reduces its own incomes and incomes from lower levels of government. Cultivating income from value added tax and excise duty will be a terrible blow. The best job the state can do, it's already done part of it, it's a question of providing credit funds, this famous IMF that's blocked and being unblocked, I'm absolutely sure. Another way to help from this level is to ensure the eventary additional income from value added tax. First of all, I'm thinking about prolonging credit liabilities that are paid in the first place, so to speak, from 24 inflows of indirect taxes. In this way, we could mitigate the decline in income of all levels of government. How else can this level help? Through the budget and budget rebalancing, but not with populist measures, but to really within the state budget try to find..
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6953	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6954	... essential savings and those savings, I apologize, I will quickly complete, essential savings and save them in the revenue side of the budget at the level of BiH institutions. Because we have a very comfortable situation with the income side and now from the value added tax. We get our 750 or 780 million this year, and lower levels of government what happens. Credits must return, and lower levels of power whatever happens. There is room for us to help both significantly lower levels of government and economy through medium-term measures that must include the issue of abolishing individual potential
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6955	Time, Mr. Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6956	..and eventually reductions, as I say, these long-term consequences will be more serious than these short-term ones. I've only had on this subject to speak of, it's an important topic, but here, I thank you for this rested time chairing and I'll end up here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6957	Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6958	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Borjana for speaking specifically to me in her discussion on the urgent request and we have explained this process of filing and paying taxes, which I am not going to comment on. In essence, I support all initiatives and intentions to help the economy and private sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I think we should have done this a month and more since this is where the proposal is intended to help the economic sector and the real sector in times of natural or other disasters. And as we know that the measures are already slowly dropping and that, I hope, by this statistics and epidemiological assessment, the pandemic peak has passed, and that we will soon witness the normalisation of the situation and the mitigation of the measures. Therefore, these 90 - day periods seem short to me, if we essentially want to help bh. business. There was a boredom of initiative to amend and supplement the VAT Act as colleagues in previous discussions have already explained, so I won't look back on it, but I have to say that it's our accident that we only remember in the accident the economy and the economic sector, the real sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then we want to intervene in such an urgent way, which often gives solutions that are not comprehensive and that are not good. And I therefore do not support this way of supplementing the VAT Act because I believe that we could have done it in a simpler way, without further burdening the Council of Ministers, that it must make temporary decisions, and here we see that the Council of Ministers disagrees with this proposed 25 Law, i.e. it is also questionable that the Council of Ministers will also make such temporary decisions, if such disagreement exists. Therefore, we could, I do not now have the opportunity to act as an amendment, but we could only change the position (1) of Article 39, which also said that the application from the position (1) of this member, that the application from the position (1) of this member of the obligor should be filed by the end of the month after the tax period has expired. It would also legally regulate what has been sought for years and what has been the requirement of a business community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this way, we want to make it easier, and that's good, but we're not really going to help, we have to do it the way that experts have proposed so far, and that's going towards reforming the VAT law and the laws that are necessary to maintain fiscal policy and fiscal relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, I will propose a very simple conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up and deliver to the House of Representatives within 90 days to discuss the proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Act on an additional value in such a way as to allow VAT payment obligations to be submitted to the monthly VAT application by the end of the month, at the end of the tax period, i.e. the existing position (2) of Article 39. The value added tax law amends and reads - the application referred to in Article (1) shall be submitted by the obligor by the end of the month following the end of the tax period. In this way we will legally regulate this provision and I think it is essential that what should be done in these additions to the law, but as it has not been done, then at least make a commitment to the Council of Ministers to do so as soon as possible, but here I have set a 90-day deadline for this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6959	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and your colleagues and colleagues. So, when it comes to the proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value, I think that, like all other measures, at all levels, so this one came too late for consideration, and in the form in which it was proposed it could hardly be a more permanent solution, perhaps some temporary assistance if it was adopted at all. The measure therefore states that in order to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis and other disturbances in the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers of BiH may decide temporarily to move the deadline for submitting a VAT payment application and that the measure may be extended to an additional 90 days. In this Law, I particularly find it controversial that despite all the conditions, here, which we see, the Parliamentary Assembly has and can hold regular or extraordinary meetings, the responsibility for the measures provided for by this Law is transferred to the Council of Ministers of BiH. Practically, the Council is named by this law as the most vulnerable segment of government and institution when it comes to assessing the economic situation it is an economic crisis, which would normally be perfectly normal for the government in BiH. I can understand my colleague Zvizdić, who is still thinking and acting as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but if we had the understanding that we have the Council of Ministers, or when we already have the Council of Ministers, that he is doing it, then he would not have to propose such a law. In addition to what is even decidently and not mentioned in the Law itself, but only 26 in the light of the proposal, I find it controversial and inconclusive that such a measure postpones the application for VAT payment did not agree with the possibilities of the Direct Taxation Administration which is receiving this application and which deals with the electrical and automated system as so far has been done in accordance with the delivery deadline, which is decidably set on the tenth day of the month at the latest. However, given the situation we have, I think it is better to try and do so than to wait for when, or how we will not welcome it from the Council of Ministers. Now, and this is proof of how the parliamentary majority works, how the Council of Ministers was formed without any programme, and that is something that we will constantly remind you of. I hope this is just the first step and that, here, as we are prepared to support this, we will have the support of those who think that this should be done, that systemically this will be fixed permanently, not temporarily. Until then, as we have promised it several times publicly, we will support everything we consider to be in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this case, especially the businessmen, regardless of what we are the opposition. Is it enough, it's not even close, but on this we want to clearly show the difference between the institutions of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6961	Thank you. The word has Mr Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6962	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'll take the opportunity to say that this initiative, in fact, is about moving the deadlines for reporting VAT at least three years old and that we've been considering it at the College in the last Council of Ministers' meeting, but unfortunately it's never seen the light of day, or it's not implemented, and now I'm not going into the reasons why. Now again with Mr. Zvizdić's initiative came in this somewhat altered form as a possibility on a temporary basis of three plus three, three months. I think that you would always support an initiative that would be as lasting as my predecessor, Mr. Nikšić, and this is just one small, small step that has been persistent for years to change the Law on VAT and the opportunities, meaning, these other deadlines, such as in this initiative of Mr. Zvizdić. So, we talked about this and we suggested a lot earlier, and I think maybe even though we were talking about maybe being late, we are, but I think the real effects of this initiative will come in the coming months, because it's clear that we will come at one dramatic moment of economic and social certainly in the months to come, probably that peak will be in the second half of 2020, and we have to respond to the demands of those who are most concerned, those that mean businessmen, employers, small, medium-sized enterprises, all those who are VAT bonds and I think that is, if there is something that should be at the top of our priorities, it's certainly concern about the economy. And for this reason, I also support this small, small step proposed by Mr. Zvizdić and the budgets, i.e. those who are thinking and watching whether they are filling the state, entity, cantonal, municipal registers, will eventually get their money, but I think the effects will still be greater, because those who are engaged in business activities have fallen short because of this crisis, and this measure will certainly be useful to them, as has already been said, this is not only a request from the MP or only one individual, this is a request and a Union of employers, foreign investors and chambers of commerce and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Republic of Serbia and the Federation. Here's my thanks to the chairman, and I certainly think that, although not complete, this initiative is welcome and we will support it. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6963	National MP Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6964	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I did not believe that such a small change, to call it a crumb of changes, which will probably not be used in this assembly at the Council of Ministers, would certainly not, cause so much resistance among individual MPs, which apparently requires a reason for each, and this little thing to obstruct, block and halt the initiatives of representatives of the legislative authority, i.e. Honored Members of Parliament. Why am I saying that? Because this change, which would essentially have the worst effect if it were to be permanent and move the VAT rate from the 10th to the end of the month, would surely meet one part of the legitimate requirements of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, that in those 20 days they have more money at their disposal, and it is certain that the state will charge its commitments whether 10 or 25 or 30 will charge. And it's a poor country that can't last twenty days to re-sell its taxes in the way that here's what's been proposed more than once. What I find interesting is the question – why has it not been done so far? But here I see that today we have received an answer through this discussion of the question. The initiative regarding the movement of VAT rates from the 10th to the end of the month lasts, so not only three, I think four and five years, and I know that it has been negotiated many times, agreed, but has never been implemented, and I'm not talking about the collection of VAT on the collected invoice, which may be the best possible measure for the economy, but which is still inconclusive. Today we see why this did not happen, if we have a situation that two members of the former Council of Ministers' College here clearly claim that there was no consensus in the College of the Council of Ministers, that they were both seeking to move the deadlines for payment of VAT, as Mr. Zvizdić clearly said, and I also see Mr. Šarović, then we found that the decision was probably crucial that there was no consensus, a third member of the Kolegijum in the previous meeting of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Bevanda, because I have no other explanation. Why has something that has been generally accepted, which has been confirmed several times never come from the Council of Ministers, the previous one, according to this House when it comes to moving the VAT rate from the 10th to the end of the month and the answer to that question has been received and the answer to the question will not come to this Council of Ministers. And no matter how correct the initiative and good Mr Emrić is, we can wait here for another three years, and we are almost half-term, and I suggest that we do this together and test this Parliament once again in the next few months whether it is ready to really support the economy, all economic operators, the real sector, or it will all remain in the big words that we have been listening to for years. But if anything else, at least we've located who's obstructed these proposals and who's going to obstruct them further, because we have obviously a division, a great division in this society of those who suggest and those who block them. But even those who block and that's their right, that's their political position, that they find in power and that's what they do, it's for, maybe absurd to understand in a society that has a real division into executive, legislative power, position, opposition, etc. Of course, that we will support this little shift which obviously will not be used, as far as we can see, because the political parties that have the opportunity to stop it in the Council of Ministers will not support this amendment and the addition of the law proposed by Mr. Zvizdić, and we will, of course, vote it. But I think that even if you allow just a few sentences, that we in this country have really many problems when it comes to the functioning of both the real sector and the economy, and that I feel that the executive structures of the authorities do not do, not enough, but very little 28 efforts to correct it. We have an absurd situation today, last night came to me, allow me just a minute to stay away from correcting the wrong allegations, last night I received a few businessmen from Republika Srpska who have an objective problem with the right to grant a gross salary in the Federation of BiH. The company's headquarters is in Republika Srpska, business units are in the Federation and the decision of the Federation Tax Administration, although this is not foreseen by law, Corona's law in the Federation, they have been denied the right to receive a grant of gross wages.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6965	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6966	It's a disaster, please, it's a disaster. On the other hand, businessmen from the Federation who have business units in Republika Srpska exercise the right to do so. Please, here I appeal to the prime ministers of both the government and the Prime Minister's Chairman's Council to coordinate and to stop this one discrimination against the rights of employees and their employers of something that is absolutely logical and justified to exercise through those rights passed by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6967	Mr. Borenović, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6968	the various decisions of some institutions have been declassified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6969	The word is Nenad Stevandić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6970	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, there aren't many members of the Council of Ministers, so here are a few things very important, so that mere measure of the Law I don't think we can ignore that discrepancies with Article 14. The law on the indirect taxation system that has prescribed that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is responsible for harmonising the policy on indirect taxation and enforcement throughout BiH. And what I would also put as a possible hard consequence of adopting this, is from the VAT application significant, is a significant result that goes towards income distribution, and the information system, as well as I've well informed myself, at the indirect tax administration can't work this way... so, we have a collapse, means in the moment that we're going to save something we're going in, in medicine it's called the "Vitisusus or the Enchanted Circle," you come in with a hand injury and a hand needs to operate and then we're going to put you to sleep no matter what your heart is bad, which is possible not to wake up for it, we'd better wait a little with that hand. Let's not be so graphic, let's say in a complicated system or in a state like Bosnia and Herzegovina no one is happy with the current situation and I understand Mr. Zvizdić's motives in terms of fixing something, but I repeat, you can't fix one thing, and you can endanger another, even when it's urgent it's illusory. That's why I have the essential remarks and this Article 14 that I've stated means why, with only one law or regulation, we're breaking another. Is it really five years, as Borenović said, and maybe more than five years later, and if we're going to find a way to break one law to adopt something, is 29 possible that there's not enough political consent and brains to find some resultant or whether it's this particular day or this kind of urgency and what we're going to lose in about 14 days? What's more important, and what I want to use to say about this law, is that we can't do one measure without, say, a complete system of measures, and all that you mention in the VAT, without intervention in the banking system, I did a little experiment a month ago, wrote a letter to the Central Bank to see how it would react, so they reacted by increasing some 160 million amounts of credit. And we talked about what happened to that money outside of the mandatory reserve on which negative interest is paid, but Bosnia and Herzegovina has made it impossible for itself to be the regulator of that system. No, it's not a story about printing new money, it's a story of you being able to make banks, let's just say, for the re-promatter of a 1% interest. I know we can't do as Ireland did, she doubted interest as much as she taxed the banks, so she allowed her economy to breathe. That is, let's say, one of the brightest examples in the last 20 years, but the complete system that we have leaned upon and blocked that kind of banking support, because remember, now the companies that are standing, I don't know how much it will help them and to adopt this law, what Mr. Zvizdić is... they don't have money for a new swing for re-promatter, they can't do it without the banking sector, and you've allowed the banking sector to act like a state and it's been in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a long time. Well, even the West, as you might say, the states haven't done anything right, but they have bigger... than we do, so they can play with us. You know that all the major economic crises of neo-oliberalism triumphed from the 1980s to the present day have always had the same cause, the combined growth of the government's debt and the economy in the second half of the 19th century the height of global debt is $350,000 and has exceeded 320 percent of the global gross domestic product. These figures are far from what we have here, and they're still five times bigger from the major crisis in 2008 that submerged Europe and gave us the greatest possible consequence, and we don't dare to touch our banking system, which is the cause of inequitableness, and which is the cause of the blockade so that we can create a new momentum in the economy. I'm saying this because I know the state of business in both the Federation and Republika Srpska, and I know that companies can't buy this material and I know they have to take a bank loan there. And what did we allow? You know this reprogramme story, a company that had 100,000 credit marks, is going to pay 6,000 marks more on that reprogramme. Why? Three months of reprograms don't pay the principal, but they pay the interest, so once they start paying the principal again, they pay the interest again. In Republika Srpska, I know, in the Federation, I don't know, more than half of the companies refused the reprogramme, because it additionally burdens them, it's an extra-coronal profit for the banking system. Synchronising folder failed: %s: %s
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6971	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6972	without acting on the banking system, and this story about the protection of the board's Karens and fiscal stability through this story, on the one hand, or the imposed story of the printing of money, on the other hand, which is untrue, means the use of extra money that banks have outside the mandatory reserves on which negative interest is paid. Only in combination with these measures in the banking sector would this part of the legal arrangement bring some kind of benefits, everything else will be a measure that we will be fighting over and the measures we will break the political spear around, and the economy and the citizens will have none of it. I'm not just telling you this as a Nenad Stevandić who
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6973	30 Time, Mr. Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6974	I'm talking on behalf of a serious team who's been doing this analysis from my party.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6975	...you've run out of time for more than a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6976	Of course, Mr. Radmanović, you could have been obliged to let me finish the thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6977	Please, I'm not and I'm not, and I'm gonna interrupt.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6978	Because this is the last sentence and you didn't need to come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6979	All right, last line, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6980	There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6981	Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6982	So I must say that this approach or position of my colleague Borenović, that the issue of a change of one of these laws is systematic, we have already said, is a matter of consensus from the Council of Ministers' Colleges, any, or any other college, is very superficial and unserious. The issue of intervention in laws concerning the country's fiscal stability, and the laws concerning the country's fiscal stability also concern the country's economic stability, is the issue of both jurisdiction and procedure, which was briefly referred to by Mr Stevandić, and this is a question for the competent authorities and for the profession. And the view that it's very clear to him who's blocking it in the Council of Ministers or anywhere else is, I'm going to use something rougher than it normally is, dilettaneically.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6983	Wrong quote, Mr. Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6984	Everyone speaks with his own dictionary, but apparently the truth is painful, so two hours ago you asked the question – why didn't the previous Council of Ministers do so? Something to talk about, here you go, look, for years and I witnessed a personal agreement more than four years ago, to go with the move of the VAT payment deadline from the 10th to the end of the month, the agreement of the political leaders who were to implement the Council of Ministers as executive authority in this country and today only 31 heard why the previous Council of Ministers did not do so, although you kept insisting on colleagues who proposed something today, why you have not done so so so so far. I don't know why it's a problem for you to accept as a fact, you can call her whatever you want, she's true. Certain people did not want, for political or other reasons, that you would say, that such a proposal in a permanent form comes to the House of Representatives and that the economy is allowed to pay the VAT from the previous month instead of the 10th after 20 days. These are perfectly clear facts, as much as you are offended or not, they may be painful, but we have at least made them clear today, and so I say that this law and today, if we adopt it, will not be implemented because there is no political, party will in the current Council of Ministers to take advantage of that possibility when, if God Bog, there is a crisis situation, because this is obviously passing and probably not going to use the current Council of Ministers, and I will continue to say so as much as it offends you or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6985	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6986	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, nothing offends me, I have a business opportunity to comment on some of the words of my colleagues, so above all, Mr. Zvizdić as an introductor and a proposal for material, which he said in his opening part, when he represented material, that this is given, if I am well remembered, tools or mechanisms that the Council of Ministers reacts in certain situations. I would like Mr. Zvizdić and them, and those where he is staying politically, to trust the Council of Ministers, so the Council of Ministers needs confidence that he can handle it, and how he could give it and could suggest it. And it could have been proposed in the past term and this time by counterpart Borenović, and others who spoke earlier in determining the urgency of this procedure, I repeat, therefore, at the Council of Ministers when it comes to amending the law there is no veto. So, as prime minister's chairman, the motioner could then propose a bill and finely revote some who were not for it and did not honor the agreement, so finely refer it to the parliamentary procedure, so what happens in the parliamentary procedure, if that is what was wanted. So, again, something that is not true, in the Council of Ministers, when it comes to amending and supplementing the law, that is, there is no procedure that does not end in the Council of Ministers, so there is no veto, but it is just a good excuse worth gold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6987	Thank you. Mr. Jakov Galić, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6988	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. I have to say that VAT law is the best thing that's happened to Bosnia and Herzegovina since the end of that unfortunate war. I agree absolutely that this amendment of the VAT Act is also significant, but not to the extent that it deserves to be discussed this much, given the fact that we are still not sure what the consequences would be. You know very well that VAT funds are being financed from institutions and the delay in VAT payments will certainly help to delay the financing of institutions. I've been working in the private or 32 real sectors for about 23 years, and I know perfectly well that 20 days of prolonging VAT means something, but absolutely certain that any real-sector company, if it comes into a situation that depends on those 20 days, trust me, there's no help in that company, followed by something that's called liquidation, or collapse. I'm really worried about what's going to happen after this pandemic, and it's absolutely certain that there's already been a delay in the search, so the demand is dropping and the demand in all segments is falling drastically. You know well that if demand falls, therefore, there is also a drop in production, there is no one to sell to, and unfortunately, it is not just us here within BiH, or a closer environment, it will happen in Europe as well. So we have to find far more effective measures than what we're proposing, above all the internal, internal debts of this country, which no one mentions, are extremely large, the claims that the company has from business are increasing from month to month. So liquidity is what's going to hit the real sector. And on the liquidity plan, we must do something very serious, therefore, to include the Council of Ministers, that is, all the powers of economic analysts that we have in the Council of Ministers to bring in one concise, one clear, one economic consolidation programme that is now needed by our economy. The economy is in a very difficult position and will be in an even more difficult position. So, I agree, and I always welcome every initiative that's on the verge of helping the economy, and it's for every praise, indeed. As far as I'm concerned, I agree, so the initiative is good, I'm just not sure if we've calculated that the effects we get from this initiative will be greater than what we'll possibly have as a consequence of prolonging VAT payments. I'm saying this from experience because I really come from the real sector and I've talked to a lot of other colleagues, too, and nobody thinks this is some kind of rescue measure. Yes, it may be some kind of help, but not to the extent that we need it today in the state we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6989	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Mektić, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6990	Thank you, Chairman. As you can see from my left, and on your right, where the representatives of the Council of Ministers are sitting there is no one, no one is there, and a member of 185. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives says -- the Council of Ministers of BiH in the House represents its chairman or one or more of its members, unless otherwise prescribed by this Rules of Procedure or by law. Article (2) – Ministers may be deputy ministers and if the presence relates to committees of ministerial assistants, unless otherwise prescribed by this Rules of Procedure or by this law. So, this story that we're talking about here about the law, amendments and additions to the VAT Act, about the economy, about tens of thousands of jobs that have been lost, see how much the Council of Ministers is interested in. Therefore, on behalf of the SDS Club and the Party of Democratic Progress, I demand a 15-minute break, to invite the chairman and ministers to attend this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6991	33 Until five minutes ago he was chairing, all the time, the Council of Ministers, followed the debate until five minutes ago. I have to give you a break, but it's not mandatory what you read in the Rules of Procedure, read again and you'll see that it's not mandatory, but if you're looking for a break for 15 minutes, break. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, continue your work, please take your seats. Mr. Mektić asked for a break, although it is not binding for members of the Council of Ministers to be here in this Rules of Procedure. He'll be chairman of the Council of Ministers after 3:00. We have two other participants in the debate to round up the debate on this agenda point. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6993	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm sorry, there's no proposing inside, and I guess they'll hear and see what's said. In particular, he and especially his colleagues from the party to whom he belongs know well that if they sincerely and truly want to help, even this one, and in this matter, when it comes to the situation in the economy after this pandemic, they can only do so by agreement. So that's how it was supposed to be, and that would probably result in a completely different result and solution. Since it's obvious that, like that, he just wants someone else to like him, and I'm going to say something about that and my colleagues from the U.S.A. and their behavior in the past and this mandate, because I have to and this is an opportunity because I can't talk about it anymore, although I've talked about it a few times and I'm not going to express the HDZ's position, but my personal attitude about it. Mr. Mektić is right, so more initiative this time, but that was the last time and in the last term it was the same and similar, nothing special has changed, so Mr. Nikšić is quite right when he says, here's how the parliamentary majority works and it works the way it does, so I'm not paraphrasing it now, so you heard what he said. I finally have to distract my colleagues from the U.S.A., so. It's about time, and I once said it, maybe a little bit in a different role, in a different question, to say whether they are this parliamentary majority or not. So, if they are not, the parliamentary majority should not be given to the Council of Ministers any tools, at least from them, from us and from other colleagues who are parliamentary majority, but should support them in their work to work, to make proposals, to help them negotiate, to come up with something. Especially from HDZ, and here I'm saying I'm not speaking on behalf of HDZ, but on my own personal behalf, we have one experience with colleagues from the SDA that's been going on for decades. So we've been waiting for the first nineties to see if they want Yugoslavia or they want an independent state, so we've been waiting to say, is what their war is coming or not, so we've tied up the flags, and then we've come into some kind of trouble, uh, now that I'm not taking up a lot of time, so we've come to sign the Washington Agreement, so we've signed the Dayton Agreement. So they said colleagues accept Bosnia and Herzegovina's constituent peoples according to the question we answered there in that referendum of fame, so every day they say that they are actually for the civil state or the unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. So every day they participate in the initiatives proposed by the opposition, so it seems more and more that these initiatives actually create them. So I would like here either today on this issue or on some tomorrow question, that they finally say that 34 will no longer be with this parliamentary majority, that they will no longer be with HDZ at all, but that they will be with someone they can work with, so. All they do is make a parliamentary majority, and then, in the last term, especially in this mandate, so they are constantly dealing with the support of different initiatives, arguing, assuring colleagues from the parliamentary majority that it is good, that it is good for BiH, that we are obstructors, that we are brakers, that we are not good, that they are good, that we do not understand them, that they understand us. So, dear fellows, make a decision once if we are a parliamentary majority, if we can't agree on something, we don't have to bring it to this House, but if we can agree on something, it's better to do five things, five laws, five sort of solutions in one term, and that it works, than to put it in front of the public, I don't know who, and because of who, we're pushing who's for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who isn't. My colleagues seem to me, my colleagues, I'm talking about my colleagues again, that you do everything you can to create anarchy in this country, and I'm going to talk about that at the next agenda points, how you do it with other colleagues. All those who planted pumpkins with you, such as the Party for BiH, the BPS and I don't know the other parties, so I'm not being rude, uh, they just served one time. I, I'm sick of this, I don't need this, I don't want to offend you, I want you to be the most responsible party, which is, with the largest number of MPs, whether we want to function as parliamentary majority in this law and every other law, in any other proposal or not. If you won't, gentlemen, let's disband this parliamentary majority, let's not lie anymore, if we can't agree on something, we'll leave it. I don't mind, however, congratulating my colleagues from the opposition, because they have the right and I don't dispute you either, therefore, to initiate initiatives, it's a business right and democratic right, but I'm talking about a parliamentary majority that's been creating a neurality for at least six years now, and I think more and I'm calling you to reason, so once you sit down, that, I said at the beginning, Zvizdić didn't sign it with your colleagues sitting at your table, that initiative. Why aren't you through the Council of Ministers? What aren't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6994	Time, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6995	So, to act as a parliamentary majority, so Mr. Nikšić doesn't tell us what you're doing. And of course, then, of course, then I don't know who's drinking or who's paying. I will not bear that kind of responsibility, I will present my opinion here, sometimes the opinion and the club, this time I have said mine, and I will continue with the points, which are also initiatives, which are absolutely according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to speak, therefore, but this has really gone too far. I call on you to be a parliamentary majority, to create the political life of this House and in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, you know that without agreeing with the parliamentary majority, it is difficult what can go through what is important for this country, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6996	You've run out of time, Mr. Lovrinović. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aida Baručija.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6997	Thank you, Chairman. So this was a violation of article 77. We were not obliged to listen to problems that had ruling political options. This is, therefore, a story about something that is not in line with the agenda, 35 of your problems in the coalition and in yours, you can solve it in some other way, somewhere else, and not here where we all have to listen. So it is a parliamentary majority, you make a meeting, you make a round table, you make a deal, and we really don't have to, we don't need to, and we won't listen to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6998	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u6999	Thank you, Chairman. The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to you, the Honored Chairman, when you said that members of the Council of Ministers do not have to attend the sessions. Article 186 says – The House and its commissions inform the Council of Ministers of BiH of the holding of their meetings so that representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH participate in these sessions. Well, it doesn't say that we wouldn't participate in informing them, so they're obliged to participate and just illustrate, for example take the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, so see if there are ministers present, take the Federation of BiH Parliament to participate, take every local parliament and you'll see that the executive section, the chiefs of the department, etc. Attending, only here they don't have to attend. And that is another proof that members of the Council of Ministers are deliberately delegating this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7000	Well, they're not the same businessmen, and what you've warned about, here's the College's going to discuss it and give its interpretation. Thank you. Non-compliance with the established agenda, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7001	Just like the chairman, I would like to point out the non-compliance with the established agenda. Kola Lovrinović spent his entire discussion on relations between HDZ and the SDA, their inter-party cooperation, non-cooperation, the problems they have in functioning and the problems that exist in this respected House and the problems that are in the Council of Ministers, but that should not have been presented under this agenda point, nor in any part did he refer to the draft law supplementing the VAT law, which is the agenda point. Therefore, in the future, if you wish to and should discuss the relations between the SDA, the HDZ or any other political entities in the majority, the non-functioning of the majority, the unhappiness, the unhappiness of the College, the untimely action, the untimely decision-making, then give a run for the agenda point, and we will open up this obvious dissatisfaction and the lack of will to achieve any political consensus on the most important issues in BiH. All the materials that we received from the Council of Ministers, those late, the College did not respond at all to this epidemic which, fortunately, was put under control and are already slowly giving in to measures and we hope to get out of this epidemic with minimal consequences. But you didn't do anything to end this epidemic in this way, all the laws were late, everyone almost. We are now dealing with the consequences and we are doing something that looks like measures, but the neighbours and the region have long been through all these procedures that we have now on the agenda and you are now harassing us with the relations of SDA, HDZ, SNSD and 36 ruling coalitions. That's what you discuss at the sessions – do you have any sessions? I suppose you do, so meet and talk about it and agree if you're most perform like that and let the Council of Ministers start working. So you see that we haven't done anything in this year, days go by, months go by, no gentlemen's results, citizens are bitter and asking us to open discussions on important topics, and you're asking us about relations within HDZ, SDA, etc. etc. Please, Chairman, warn MPs who do not adhere to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7002	Thank you. I warn you, it seems more to me, as I could warn you that you were now out of the agenda, but fine. Correction of the wrong quote, Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7003	Thank you, Chairman. So here's because my colleague Lovrinović, in a way, addressed the Foreigners of Democratic Action directly here, to say a few words. Yes, we are in the coalition, we have voted together this Council of Ministers meeting, but we cannot escape from it, here we have waited about 100 days, we cannot wait for it, we can run away from confirming here that the Council of Ministers is working very slowly on the bill to be delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Unfortunately, the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on state property, the SNSD came out publicly with the conclusion that it will not work in either the Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH when it comes to decision-making. We cannot wait and cannot wait, we are obliged to launch certain initiatives, certain laws and, of course, work with those who are willing to work on passing such laws that will improve the state of the ordinary citizen as well as the state of the economy. On the other hand, this request by Parliamentarian Denis Zvizdić regarding the addition of the VAT law is in that direction, we would like it to come from the Council of Ministers, from the restoring ministry, but since it did not come, we are obliged to start these things. Therefore, it is up to us and to you that our initiatives, our reasoned criticisms of the current Council of Ministers' appeal, we start it out, I'd say, of some kind of half-life, to start working more seriously, because it's unacceptable that in a pandemic situation like this we don't have at least this much here today, to say here, a depot or objects, an amendment to the law that will respond to this pandemic. We have nothing and I welcome these initiatives that come from MPs and the U.S.A. will support every initiative that is good, whether it comes from a position or from an opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7004	Thank you. Denis Zvizdić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7005	I thank the chairman. I answered because I notice one trend very interesting and I think the same one should be stopped immediately, and that is that no matter what the subject is spoken of, the focus of the attack is to become and 37 become Bošnjak. So, which, we're talking about the economy focus of the attack are Bošnjak and the U.S.A., we're talking about culture, we're talking about health care, we're talking about schooling, we're talking about going to Mars, suddenly the focus is Bošnjak and the SDA, that's the thing that has to stop. Therefore, my correction of the wrong allegation refers to my distinguished colleague, Mr. Lovrinović, whom I would like to say that, regardless of the ideological or political background, the Bošnjak were always and without exception for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entire and independent self-reputation, that it was a people with express characteristics of state-awareness and of a people who, regardless of the decades-old disputation of our national self-loathing for very difficult periods in the last 150 years, when we were exposed to numerous genocides, numerous crimes, the challenge of our national and cultural consciousness and self-loathing, never, ever, within the Bosniak people, appeared political or any other movement or project that did not involve a whole, multi-cultural, multinational, equal state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it was at the end of the 19th century, at the beginning of the 20th century, in the middle of the 20th century and at the end of the 20th century, so it is now. The floscula you said, often repeated by many, about unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually a cowardly egg trying to plant on Bošnjak. You have no argument for that fleet and for that claim. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a simple, decentralised state whose consent in the Dayton Peace Agreement has given consent to both Bošnjak and responsiblely argue, of course I do not want to deny the right to all others that the Bošnjak are the most, not to say the most, interested in strong, stable, multicultural, democratic and European Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are objectives and specifics in all strategies and programmes, in all political parties regardless of their ideological commitment, in which the dominant majority or part of the membership makes Bošnjak as an equal, political people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For centuries we haven't been, for decades, we've been an equal political people, I ask you all to take that into account and cannot be without Bošnjak as a political factor and people bring anything and do more work in this country than it was in some decades ago. As for the SDA, we are a very stable part of the democratic and parliamentary majority for those projects that mean strengthening the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this feature of the state I have talked about, multinational, democratic, civil, European, stable, democratic and economically prosperous. And when you say we let the Council of Ministers do their job, who's defending him? Here's the SDA and I speak now on behalf of my colleague, Club Chief, we will vote today for every law proposed by the Council of Ministers, which concerns the recovery of the economic consequences of the virus's corona. How many such laws are among the 60 points of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7006	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7007	So, we're going to vote for everything, I apologize to the chairman, I'm finishing up, we're going to vote for anything the Council of Ministers suggests. Here, we wait for him to propose a Council of Ministers, and until then we try to help through my Law and make a small step at the moment when Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy is needed, to strengthen economic flows and preserve jobs. And don't turn every time on all themes on the SDA and the Bosniaks. It's really enough with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7008	38 Nothing can be solved without any constituent people in BiH, not just without Bošnjak, but ____________?) [[no microphone turned on]] And what I'm saying is beyond the agenda, as was the vice-president's majority of the debate outside the agenda. Please return to the agenda frames. The word is Nenad Stevandić, the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7010	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must rephrase after the discussion of the vice-president, Mr. Zvizdić, but rather than rephrase it, I would like to thank Mr. Mektić for finally commending the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. What counterpart Zvizdić said cannot apply to one nation, it can refer to the SDA that received a majority package to represent the Bosniak people, as SNSD or HDZ or so on in this term. I think that generalization, no one here talked about the Bosniak people, talked about the relationship between the parties and me, let's say, the relationship between the SDA and the others who are... no one mentioned the Bosniak people, no historical ones, no other qualifications, so your reaction probably has any other plan or purpose. But if I refer to what was the story of interpartial relations with the SDA, it means to bear that kind of responsibility means to bear and, as I say, the burden of consequences. You and the SNSD, which I, United Serbian, Socialist Party and DNS signed in the coalition, on the other hand, with the HDZ and the SBB, have created the Council of Ministers, but you have made yourselves a collective parliamentary majority. When you need the CEC to disable SNSD, you will use the support of colleagues from SDS and PDP and you will allow them to put party members in the CEC, and then you will expect to continue with a correct, uh, what is called this, correct co-operation with those with whom you chose the Council of Ministers. It's not the Bosniak people's problem. It's the SDA's work methodology. Then you'll have a compromise that, I don't know, one service where we have a problem with one degree tied to another service where we don't have a problem with any diplomas and you'll be looking for a package. Then again, when you vote on what your colleague, Zvizdić, is called, today proposed, why he has a legitimate right, I do not dispute it, I just said that this has problems with the law and with the future distribution of VAT funds, you will again go to this CEC coalition and you will serve what is called PDP and SDS votes. It is a problem of functioning of the SDA and you must see your own responsibility in why this cabinet of the Council of Ministers cannot function, because you are here, as you would say, holding the most strings, equally waiting for it to form, conditioning with the formation of the Federation government, waiting for you to align relations and become stronger in Tuzlanski and what is called the Sarajevo Canton, so we are the hostages of that and there is no objection that would apply to Bosniaks or any other people. We are the hostages of these relationships and you, please, I beg you, cross with that kind of double arches and the policy of making the reserve majority in the matter that suits you at that 39 moment. That's how the Council of Ministers could work and we wouldn't have this kind of intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7011	Thank you, Mr. Stevandić. Correction of the wrong quote, Zukan Helez. Mr. Helez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7012	Thank you very much, Chairman. I don't know if there's anyone, media representatives. Chairman, I'd like to apologize to you because my discussion won't be entirely with the agenda, but I do because I'm about to warn the predecessors that they're off the agenda, and by the old tried prescription, the municipal elections are getting closer and any point that's the agenda. Mr. Zvizdić, you've evened out the SDA and the Bošnjak. Do you know what you have done? The Bošnjak are far more sacred than the SDA and you can never even it out. The SDA gets when it gets 15% of the total number of Bošnjak maximum and don't ever do that again. This would mean that all those affairs, the Zukić affair, the Čaušević affair, the Sarajlić affair, the Solak affair, that somehow you attribute it to the Bošnjak, are not the individuals who are from certain parties and are all the common denominator of the team, who are in these affairs one pause, you know it well and it is a shame to even any party with any people today. You know who does it, especially you surprised me. Also Mr. Lovrinović, so is there a here, who's here position is known? You've arranged SNSD with your partners, SDA with your partners, HDZ with your partners, as you like to say three teams. And now it's just the Council of Ministers positions, and everyone else is the opposition. So you have to answer to the people as a position, you have to answer what you've done, and not someone said, this is where the Council of Ministers needs to answer to all of us. It should be as executive power, but it can no longer be tolerated that, I think that you will turn every session until the end of the election into inter-party, international conflicts. Something like now, Zvizdić does not give Bošnjak, and this Lovrinović does not give Hrvat etc. It will not be forgotten the Solak affair, here today as we sit here again, the Prosecutor's Office is investigating, you've all read, almost all the portals have announced, the involvement of Novalić and Džindić, the prime minister of the Federation and the minister, in the unworthy shops with Pretis.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7013	Mr. Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7014	I ask you, the chairman, don't let anyone, stop if you leave the agenda and this is all for a purpose, I apologized at the beginning, but don't, so we're not the half-wits here, always the same story when the elections of some attack by the Bošnjak, someone attacks the Hrvat. Most of all, Mr. Zvizdić, the endangered Bošnjak of the SDA and Hrvat of HDZ have driven hundreds of thousands of youth away, so you are in power for 30 years. It's part of the responsibility and the SDP, but when you're like that, uh, 40.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7015	Mr. Helez, you're out of time and you're not in the agenda, Mr. Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7016	Go into the protection of Bošnjak, then say everything you didn't do right. I repeat, you will not forget the affair of Čaušević, Solak and all others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7017	Ladies and gentlemen, I estimate that the debate in the last, after the break is particularly out of the agenda. I invite all MPs to return to the agenda, but after the break. Pause until 3:15 p.m. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, just a notice from someone about the debate we've been having. In the break, I had criticism, and it was from those who often reported inappropriately here that I was too much of a shower of democracy in Parliament. I didn't mean it like that, but I have to say, and I warned during the work, that most of the participants in the debate had exceeded the time. I'd like to inform you that I'm going to have to rule out those time-outs. I ask you as MPs to stick to the agenda, which is also regulated by the Rules of Procedure, so we don't have to intervene. I thought we'd end at least this part of the agenda before the break, unfortunately we didn't make it. When we're done with this agenda, we have to say that we're going to be working for almost a week to finish this agenda. Working all week means, we're working tonight until 6:00, working tomorrow morning from 9:30, and again until 6:00, with a break for a while, so we can finish our work responsibly. By the end of this agenda, we have a regular discussion of Mr. Lovrinović's reported wrong quote. Here you are exactly in accordance with the time you have for Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7019	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to respect what you said. So, I'd go in line, a few colleagues intervened on my discussion, so Mrs. Baručija said that, and it wasn't just her, that it was our interparty thing, that I didn't know either, the parliamentary majority. I also believe that this has to do with the agenda point, because it is proposed by whom it is proposed and the way it is done is just like this, this kind of work, the debate and in the part relating to the agenda, and also in part of the scale when we decide and discuss the subject itself. So, uh, I don't know why it's not about the agenda. First of all, let me remind you that 41 few colleagues from the real sector here, here, not to name them, not to abuse them, they said that these are just such measures that might temporarily be a little help, and that's simply not the solution to saving the economy, and then here we have from colleagues who are dealing with it the opposite way. My colleague Emrić said the same thing, and so he gave me this lecture, and I'm going to remind him that he supported the point of the agenda as it is, and then he said that it was no good at all, that he couldn't stand the amendments, so now this story is trying to solve it with a conclusion, which he can't. Mr. Osmanović says it will work the way it will, so with those with whom I can do something, well, then do with them and the parliamentary majority I don't mind, but we'll be able to arrange for that. Mr. Zvizdić was saying that, on the trail of my performance, about Bosnia and the Bosniaks, I did not mention that, therefore, Bošnjak, I mentioned specifically the SDA. So, we're unique to Bosnia as well, and we've signed a lot of things, I've said a lot in that word, and I expected to work together, but here's why I say we're always waiting for something and never welcome Godoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7020	Time's up. Thank you. Regular discussion, Mr. Predrag Kojović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7021	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. Honestly, today's current course of discussion is one of those things that man knows exist, but every time he faces them again he is surprised, as he would say, and doesn't know what to do and to talk about Parliament's role as the highest legislative body and its authority to everyone else, including the Council of Ministers. It is best summed up, is it, in a well-known English saying that parliament can have anything but children. And this parliament of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is exactly what I would say, this place where everything needs to be discussed. Also on the nature of the tax, that parliament was actually established historically so that not the king, but parliament, representatives of the people would determine what to pay and how much to pay, is the archaic oldest definition, as I would say, of the reasons for Parliament and tax. But if I hadn't followed my predecessors and talked off topic, I'd be back and I'd be very brief. The economic crisis that has already begun and that will follow after the Coronal Virus epidemic cannot be compared to any other crisis, which is all in 2008 and '29. were so-called financial character, it's specific, it's about the simultaneous drop in demand and supply. I'm saying this for the next reason, we can no longer affect the depth of the economic crisis that will hit us, the time when we could influence it has passed and in that period we haven't done anything, or we haven't done anything that was necessary and what other countries have done. But how long this recession will last depends solely on us and on the next moves we'll take to the next parade. Two variables were the most important, the amount of money and the speed of action. It's undeniable that we're going to lose about 10% of our gross social product, so somewhere around a little more than three billion marks, we don't have money printing tools and changing the course of our converting brand, we can only borrow ourselves, and that's why it's very important that we don't make mistakes. And that is why it is especially amazing to me today that no one from the Council of Ministers, or that all of the Council of Ministers, is in any way present here 42 and not as listeners to our proposals, but as a proposaler. This all that we propose should have actually come from the Council of Ministers and it was a long, long time ago. The measure proposed, moving the VAT payment deadline, is undoubtedly modest economic effects. It is absolutely certain that it will practically help in, as you would say, in the current survival of some companies for which a colleague has rightly found that they are obviously in a big problem if, if those twenty days meant something to them, but it would be very important to save at this point what can be saved, so if someone moving a deadline can enable them to continue their business and save their jobs, I am absolutely in order to do so at the fastest possible time. When I say that it will have no economic effect, I also think about the proposals that follow here, they have no significant economic effect, but they have an extremely great importance in a symbolic sense to show the memory of those who spend tax money and who create value and pay taxes and the willingness of us who spend these people's money to take care of them and to show them that we want to take care of them. That is why our club will support, as it has supported a shortened procedure, an emergency procedure, our club will support, of course, and this bill, although we think we should seek a lasting solution that will be on this trail as soon as possible, but go further, because we do not think this proposal goes far enough. It's perfectly logical, like every one of us in our lives, to practice it, to pay or pay taxes when the job that is being taxed is done, and that's something we're going to insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7022	Thank you. Mr. Jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7023	So let me explain this quote to my colleague Lovrinović. I voted and supported the request for the proposed law to be considered by an urgent procedure, it has nothing to be disputed, I also had a critical review and suggested a conclusion, because I believe that the proposed law only temporarily resolves this measure, and the tendency to do so permanently, or without restrictions, because this law refers to a period of 90 days of application of the Law in terms of submitting VAT applications until the last working day of the month. And if the Council of Ministers respects, in fact, if we adopt the conclusion that I have proposed and the Council of Ministers respects the 90-day deadline that I have also proposed, then we could adopt a law that would continue the continuity of the application of this measure, i.e. that this measure has no longer a temporary character but that it is without restrictions and that it is possible to submit VAT applications by the end of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7024	Thank you. There is no Mr. Mektić, who had an objection to the presence of members of the Council of Ministers, there is the chairman, as he has been all morning, only he was not there at that moment and more ministers. No Niko's even asking to speak now. I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure. 43 Point, we move to point six, Ad. Six. The request of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut to consider the draft law on emergency austerity measures in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following the COVID-19 pandemic by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-734-1/20 of 28.04.2020 The draft law requiring an urgent review was given to you, the legislative sector delivered its opinion. I'm opening an emergency hearing, please, for an emergency procedure. Mr. Arnaut, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7026	Thank you, Chairman. This law is the result of the coronal-induced virus pandemic introducing the most radical austerity measures in BiH institutions from Dayton to today. It is proposed that all savings be directed into a special fund to fight the crown of the virus and that all employees be abolished the regress for vacations, jubilee awards, professional training, and for all elected and appointed officials and advisors, incentives, a warm meal, overtime work, separate lives, journals, transportation, severance. Bodyguards for all but members of the presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as well as the President of the BiH Court and the BiH chief prosecutor, are being abolished, and much more restrictions will be discussed if the text of the law is discussed. This proposal was submitted on 30 March in the procedure, at the very beginning of the pandemic and at the moment when businessmen have not yet started to feel negative economic consequences. I remind you that the catering facilities were closed for only 12 days at the time, and the malls were only 10 days, and small shops only for one week, and this leaves no doubt that this Law was sent to the procedure at the right time. The College's reaction, however, did not follow the interests of the businessmen, nor did the citizens of this country, the College not only immediately set up a session to discuss this immediately, but the College also refused the request of the Club Our Party – the Independent Block to convene an emergency session and to adopt the Law last month. And although this is clearly a high-level emergency law, the time of officials in BiH, despite Parliament's non-session, despite the Council of Ministers' phone sessions, despite all restrictions and police repression measures, which during that time were exposed to citizens of this country, used representation, official phones, kept by bodyguards and driven in limousines with rotations. And who paid for it now, even though it's a high-level emergency law? Well, she paid for the economy and such financial-destroyed citizens of BiH. Yesterday, it was announced that only in Canton of Sarajevo was charged close to a million marks of criminal punishment from citizens because they did not wear masks on the air, dirty gloves, because married couples walked the streets with less than a meter and a half of difference and so on. And during that time, even in this torn-up BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when all the restaurants in the country were closed, were they likely on the team. And with this, I underline and for the sake of the media, because of the general public that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly restaurant is open at the moment, works for the MPs, and there is no garden or terrace, and it is a shame, because we know very well that only those who have a garden and a terrace are allowed to work, and this one also works here and MPs eat in it by breaking all measures. 44 The law is therefore still urgent despite the two months that were cast into the wind. These privileges should be lifted today and these funds should be rerouted immediately to the fight against the pandemic and there is no reason to lose one additional day, as there is no reason to use these privileges at least during the rest of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7027	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. I'm opening a debate on the procedure, please don't stress that by any chance, at the last item of the agenda most of them held a debate on the law when it comes to emergency proceedings. We'll have a chance when we adopt an emergency procedure to conduct a debate on the law. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Please put this back on, we haven't agreed to vote yet, maybe someone else will pick up. Niko one answered for the hearing. I'm concluding an emergency hearing and we're pleading an emergency procedure. Now prepare the vote. For 22, versus 11, abstention 1. From the Federation – 18 for, from Republika Srpska – 4, versus 5, 6. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. There's no agreement in the College that we're working right now, and we'll come forward with an emergency procedure later. No, so we don't have a decision, we're going in for a brief procedure, or we're waiting for the next emergency hearing, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7028	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7029	Okay, the House of Representatives has not adopted an emergency procedure, remains in the second round to plead the necessary emergency procedure because there was no entity majority. Let's go to point seven, Ad. Seven. Zahjevnik Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-752/20 of 02.04.2020 You also received the Law, the Opinion of the Legislative Sector. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Here you go. 45 People's Messenger Aida Baručija, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7031	Thank you, Chairman. This industrious club of ours acted spotlessly in accordance with the situation in which our country was found and, of course, its citizens. Over the past period, we have made several proposals to amend and supplement the laws that the Rules of Procedure allow us to do. One of the proposals is also the Act supplementing the Excise Act, meeting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on an emergency procedure. What I can say is that he was, therefore, sent to the procedure on 02.04. then, 02.04. was it really urgent to pass a law like this, was it a shortage of disinfectant. What has now happened on today is that demand, i.e. consumption of disinfectants on today, has increased even more, because the drop in measures has come, by giving in to measures and recommendations of the Health Insurance Institute, that in all facilities, waiting rooms, offices, means of public transport, therefore, the consumption of disinfectant for hand, surface, waiting room and all that comes into contact with clients, patients, etc. This is one of the reasons why we should, therefore, adopt this urgent procedure of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7032	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, also on an emergency procedure, and after the debate on the law. Here you go. No Niko's answering, I'm closing the debate. We're pleading for an emergency procedure. Prepare to vote. You'll do it again, please. Vote. 35 votes - 22 for, 10 against. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska. _Other Organiser [[Common discussion]] Okay, there's a request again to do it again, did I hear right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7035	Thank you, Chairman, I'll take a moment. One of the consequences of the global pandemic of the corona virus is the shortage of disinfectants on our market, the European Union has banned the sale of biocidal products and other raw materials used by our domestic producers in the production of disinfectants, making it difficult for them to operate, and has put citizens in a position not to obtain disinfectants. In view of the fact that it is only possible to find more alcohol in the European Union, with a small part of the possible purchases on the domestic market, by charging excise duties in 2020 on alcohols under the heading referred to in this proposal, which are used to produce disinfectants would ultimately effectively and effectively assist domestic producers and allow citizens to have the necessary quantities of disinfectants at lower prices. I have already stated in the opening speech that the reduction of measures on the consumption of disinfectants has increased, because in the recommendations of the Institute of Health Insurance, in all facilities, waiting rooms, offices, kindergartens, means of public transport, therefore, the use of disinfectants is increased. I can only give you an example of a dental surgery where in the waiting room, therefore, there must be a disinfectant where the patient will clean his hands and after the patient is disinfected all surfaces that have come into contact with the patient. In the office, therefore, a doctor must clean his gloves, disinfect his hands... and then after taking off his gloves, then the space where the patient was staying. Therefore, the consumption of disinfectant has been increased and this is one of the reasons why we should adopt this Law to facilitate our producers' production and to enable our citizens to obtain this very important asset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7036	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7037	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I want to encourage my colleagues and colleagues that this, this legal solution is very important for BiH, that is, for the BiH economy, I am primarily talking about the chemical industry that has a fundamental, fundamental raw material that is ethyl alcohol. This story has long been in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers and otherwise in BiH, unfortunately because of the influence of various lobbies never received such a legal solution, it did not see the light of day. So I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues today to adopt this for the following reason, because of the relief of the economy in the chemical industry, to adopt this for the following reason, denaturiated alcohol as it is called, it is an alcohol that cannot be used for human consumption and it is not actually known in history that someone has brought it back to be as a basic raw material for the production of alcoholic beverages. And in order to import, let's say, 48 thousand liters of denaturized alcohol needs to be committed through excise duty, which, through the rest of the taxes to the state, gives about 900 thousand marks to the state. Now imagine what it's like to provide any economic operator with 900 thousand marks for just one, for one import of 48 thousand liters of denatured alcohol, and that's basic raw materials for the chemical industry. 47 Therefore, I ask you to bear in mind that in Serbia, too, this provision which is fully freed from alcohol, means, paying any import taxes, also in the Republic of Croatia and what is very important, and we are constantly drawing attention to that, that the European Union is like a urn for us, I would like to draw attention to Commission Implementing Regulation No 3199/93 on mutual recognition of the procedures for the full denaturing of alcohol for the exemption from excise duty. So Article 27(1)(a) of Directive 92/83 requires Member States to release wholly detached excise alcohol in accordance with the requirements of certain Member States... Therefore, full compliance with European directives and, of course, in line with market requirements, I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues that we finally give support to such a legal solution today. And he would ask that this, in fact, be not only an amendment to the Excise Act, which will be valid by the end of 2020, this should be a permanent category, because it is obvious that we already have this issue permanently resolved in the countries in the neighbourhood and in the EU, so I ask you to consider in accordance with the Rules of Procedure whether this can be treated as a technical repair or a mistake, in order to eventually have a permanent legal solution as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7038	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as with the previous point and the previous one being considered by an urgent, urgent procedure, I wish it wasn't because it's the system law again and what's to come next, but here's what I'm supposed to talk about. But I'd like to ask the promoters here, I just happen to find out, find out, so I don't know if it's true or not, that we have two least and perhaps three capacities that produce this in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So somewhere I've heard that it's in Brcko, Tuzla, and that if we do this here, and we let those who import this, they do it in, so it's easier and simpler way, that we're going to compromise the production of these two rentals or three entities that do this in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, I am, therefore, an advocate so I can speak and what I hear, I would like those who have suggested this to be answered, if they know, if they don't know, then I am against, again, being dealt with in a hasty procedure until they check themselves out, and of course I won't support it, I'm not an emergency procedure, nor will I support the passing of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7040	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7041	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well practically my discussion is Mr. Mehmedović, practically I regretted asking the MPs, indeed, to support the Law, this, because I had contact with one of these producers, as 48 and to ask the promoter if it is possible and otherwise if this Law passes for a permanent period, not only until the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7042	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on item seven. Point eight, Ad. 8. Zahjevnik Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut to discuss the draft law on the mandatory contributions of officials to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-761-1/20 of 28.04.2020. As with previous points, you have received a request, the opinion of the legislative sector. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Here you go. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7044	The law, of course, is in the material, but what I want to point out is that this law fulfils both conditions when it comes to emergency procedures, so it is a high degree of urgency due to the resolution of the consequences of the pandemic to the overall economic situation in the country, and therefore, for already known reasons, we are behind in adopting measures to overcome these consequences. Also, the law is simple and clear enough to be adopted in an emergency procedure, so it meets both conditions. What I would still like to point out is that the adoption of this Law is actually an opportunity to show responsibility and solidarity with the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in these conditions. Namely, here is the public and the media to explain a little bit, in fact, it predicts that officials in BiH institutions, therefore, give up 20% of the salary and thus contribute to the resolution of the consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus and that these funds are being channelled, therefore, into a special fund which will, therefore, be set up by the Council of Ministers and from which the funds will be used exclusively to address the economic consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus. So this is an opportunity for us, therefore, to show responsibility, solidarity with citizens in these conditions, because I think we are all aware that citizens, therefore all of these officials listed in the Law, are experiencing as one privileged group of people and an alienated group of people, in the sense that we have no understanding of citizens' problems, and today's conditions, so in which thousands of people are left without a job really require our reaction and our solidarity. So, I hope that by adopting this law, we will show exactly the opposite, and since this is about denying the part, therefore, and the mandatory contribution of officials in terms of reducing, or giving up a 20% share of the salary in this way, there would be no way that the funds would be touched either, so still filling the funds in the same way, and above all, the pension fund. So I hope that, therefore, we will show solidarity and social sensitivity with citizens. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7045	Thank you. We're talking about an emergency procedure, Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7046	I thank the chairman. The essence of this Law I support and without this Law I implement it in one way, but in order to make it clear to all of us what we are voting on, I would like the pedal to explain Article 8, which, let me be sure that I do not understand well. Here in reason it says that, practically, if we adopted this Law today that it cannot be implemented, but that it should be implemented, the Constitution needs to be changed as well. Did I get it right? If that is so, then it is fair to this Parliament and the public that we are going to change the Constitution first, because here we will vote today, so I am telling you right now I will support this measure, but it is unclear to me, perhaps I did not understand well, that this Law says to me, yes, but if we and if we adopt this will not come into force because the Constitution needs to be changed before that. Let's explain this part a little bit, uh, so we can just know how and what.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7047	It's an emergency procedure. We'll discuss it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7048	But, Chairman, it is also important for us in the emergency procedure, here we will adopt an emergency procedure, adopt the law, but whether we adopt a law that cannot come into force.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7049	Damir Arnaut has the word, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7050	Thank you. So the replica to Mr. Magazinović, that is, the clarification he sought. No, we don't pass a law that can't go into effect, because it's unimaginable, right? The law in its Article 8 which is the last member and which always, the last member in each law, speaks of the entry into force, makes it very clear, therefore, the date of entry into force and the conditions under which the law can enter into force. What the Club Our Party – The Independent bloc did compared with the submission of this Bill proposal in the procedure is also an amendment to the Constitution of BiH. You know very well that in the Constitution of BiH, unfortunately, there is a provision that says that receiving officials in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office and this is a perfect opportunity to finally remove that, that constitutional provision that really doesn't make sense anymore. And there has been an earlier attempt, therefore, that the constitutional amendment was adopted, I think that it was adopted in one of the previous assemblies at the House of Representatives, never adopted in the House of Peoples, but in any case, what you wrote about, therefore, not only has there been no collapsing, but we and the Proposal for Law and Amendment to the Constitution have submitted, so at the same time in the procedure. Why did the College not put the amendment to the Constitution in this procedure that should be asked by the College, to me it is, indeed incomprehensible, I see that today we have amendments to the Constitution of BiH which have been proposed by colleagues from the DF and which concerns the entirely other matter, but this, this amendment to the Constitution that we have proposed not only has not been put in session at the House, it is not even put before the competent committee and it shows only the really commitment of the College to this matter in an urgent way, it shows also 50 of this vote their commitment, i.e. the lack of the same shows this and their vote by most of the Colleges and parties from which they come about these savings that I have proposed, and that is the only explanation that I have why they did not put it in the process at the same time with this Law, so buy time, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7051	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7052	So, I thank my colleague Arnaut once again stating that I support this essence and I have no problem even, uh, and today to vote on this and by my vote you will see my position in the essence of the law that you have proposed, but this argument that we have now received is actually me confirming the inconceivability that I had. To adopt this Law today he cannot enter into force until the Constitution is changed and it would practically mean that, too, if this had gone into regular procedure that this on the Constitutional Commission would not have passed and probably has and therefore proposed and put an emergency procedure. But it was very important to me, I have no problem voting and I will vote, but it was very important that we clear this up, so here's the law that we adopt today won't apply until the Constitution changes, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7053	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7054	Okay, now already Mr. Magazinović really shows one elemental lack of knowledge of matter throughout. If this had gone into regular procedure, it would have gone to the Constitutional Commission if it had any good will, so here everything is in accordance with the Constitution and the law. That is why Article 8 is written in the way it is written, but if you think we can cut salaries in BiH institutions without changing the Constitution at the same time, I will first raise my hand for it, so let's see who will challenge it in the Constitutional Court. But this is also completely, therefore, one approach that is in line with the BiH Constitution and has no reason to delay the procedure, except through the procedural games of the College which does not put the proposed constitutional amendment on the agenda at the same time with this law, that is the only reason why this will not, can not take effect simultaneously with the adoption of the law, because the College today has not put this constitutional amendment. But I'm saying again, I mean, we're used to them buying time, what I can definitely promise that we won't get tired, so we'll also see how far I can go with this. What I'm particularly afraid of, however, is if we're going to talk about practice now, what I'm particularly afraid of is that this can't pass into the House of Peoples because someone gave SNSD four delegates instead of three in the House of Peoples, and this reminds that my story three is not four. But we'll see, everyone will vote and each of the voters will go out with the results of their vote, so let the citizens give the final court on who worked here on good faith, who offered solutions, and who in all ways braked those solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7055	51 Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul, please. Excuse me, Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7056	There you go, there you go, there you go. Let's go get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7058	I don't know exactly what member he is, and he's referring to the Ethics Code. So, colleague Arnaut, I'm saying this all I'm saying, I'm saying well-intentioned and as someone who's going to vote for your law. I, you must learn to stop disqualifying people if they ask anything about what is wrong with you and characterize any kind of epithetism, knowledge, ignorance of elemental, anything like that. So if someone who wants to support your law and who will show it through their vote asks a question there's no reason for you to label it, I don't think it's a good habit.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7059	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7060	Thank you, Chairman. Well, of course, this same member of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Magazinović was invited to. So, in the first line, I very precisely explained these procedures, and then you in the second line completely needlessly entered into my motives why I, i.e. the motives of the entire club, why the whole club put something in an emergency procedure to trick someone, whether, it was essentially possible to conclude from your discussion and then it was really necessary to make it very clear to you
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7061	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7062	And I'll explain it precisely. Well, I said, the same one Magazinović was invited to, when you let him go, then let me go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7063	Mr. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7064	So we have adopted this law, and this Parliament has adopted that this law is being debated by emergency procedure, so without the possibility of amendment action, repairs, etc. I was therefore against an emergency procedure in view of Article 5 of this Act – distribution of funds. It says that the BiH Council of Ministers will set up a fund within 15 days of the date of entry 52 into force of this Act in which those funds will be paid, etc. and it will be used exclusively to combat COVID-19 pandemics and its social and economic consequences, and will be deployed according to its purchasing value, etc. in some proportions of indicative. A colleague, Kojović, has already said that these laws have approximately the financial value, and that is indeed the case. How much of this symbolic value of this Law will we spend on a cold drive such an ad hoc fund formed and how this ad hoc fund will spend these funds, whether it has competences and competences, constitutional competences. If we're getting medical equipment or anything else, we've seen what it's like to get it from someone who's neither competent nor competent. Are we going to form another institution at the Council of Ministers' level, the Fund? The fund has to be made by people, in offices, in rooms, something, not by sharing that money, but by getting something, and then spending it on the purchase value. What do we get to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of COVID-19? Are we going to re-procur as we already do and already related to COVID-19? In any case, savings at the level of the BiH institutions' budget, including in the part of receiving employees, and in particular the elected officials, should be made and managed, but the only model that is legal and constitutional spending of these funds is that as much as we save on the spending side, so many revenue cuts on the revenue side of the budget, that BiH institutions also see very well what a fall of income from indirect taxes will be, and then these money will come to the right addresses, where the institutions with the consequences of any health, were socio-economical these pandemics, and that is the only real way.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7065	We're talking about an emergency procedure, Mr. Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7066	No, I'm talking about the law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I apologize and I end up, and this is exactly why I can't vote on an emergency, support an emergency procedure because of Article 5, which is absolutely, uh, misspelled and ultimately eats the funds of this hypothetical fund.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7068	Thank you. No more reports. We're pleading for an emergency procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Of the 38 people present – for the vote 24 (Federation of BiH – 19, Republika Srpska – 5), 12 against and 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I'm guessing we've been assigned to an emergency procedure. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Here you go. 53 Pardon me, I am opening the debate..., Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7069	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, a few words to say on behalf of the SNSD Club on this proposal. He's one, here I'll dare say, let's not be resentful or resentful, I don't care, colleagues from the club who suggested this, a classic example of the populist law which, as we heard in this opening discussion, has no constitutional basis, and no chance of ever breaking into... As for us who come from Republika Srpska gathered around the SNSD Club and the Serbian Club, the argument is more than clear, so I will not enter this part of whether it is possible at this time to reduce the salary, it is not possible, we have all taken part individually and in various ways already in what we think is possible from, or by contributing to, payments to the Solidarity Fund for the recovery of damages caused by the pandemic of the Serbian Crown, which was founded at the level of the unity of the Republika Srpska, therefore I support in this sense this previous Mr. Kožul's discussion. So we must think that we are strengthening those segments of functioning of the government from where it is realistic and appropriate on the Constitution, and in terms of jurisdiction, where it is possible to do the resolution and the social and economic consequences, bearing in mind, above all, these economics and concerning both businesses and agriculture and all that is in this connection. So, for us, this completely unacceptable proposal is that at the level of the common bodies, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities, there is no fund at all, I say again, bearing in mind that Republika Srpska has already significantly moved away from both formation and to say and in a certain distribution of funds collected at the Fund for Recovering the damages caused by this pandemic. The next thing I know, it might not even be worth commenting on, but here's when I took the word, it's interesting how someone picks up a kid like that and makes some percentages. So it was nice to look at it, to see what it would really look like if someone had given power to, uh, by example to these colleagues, so that you could see these interesting percentages so that they could share it, collected some imaginary means, but here's to that. Well, it's clear that the opposition has something to do, but it's clearer to me and I call for us to really gather around and call first of all on the Council of Ministers, and all these parties who have serious intentions to build here some, some measures that are on solid foundations and that we can expect the results to gather around such initiatives as soon as possible, and here we have already taken each other and time and energy related to these proposals of the law, so much from me and thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7070	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7071	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's what my previous colleagues said, so it's absolutely anti-constitutional law, and we're not going to support it either in this procedure or in any way, but I have to say something that I've noticed lately when it comes to these, these and similar solutions. In fact, for a longer period of time, a group of colleagues or individuals has proposed such solutions as to the reception of elected and appointed officials since the last term of office, and therefore, they are interpreted by the fact that they are some kind of privileged income, privileged positions, which absolutely does not stand. So, the public gets the impression that here, or I don't know an agency, and then you just take what's on someone, in some box the way anyone does. So, I remind you that this is all 54 regulated by this law that is trying to change here and that all receipts of MPs and fees are, therefore, accepted by law, in accordance with the law. What my colleague Kožul was saying, therefore, to which fund, which we have seen done and how it is acquired, I just want to say that this populist measure and these measures that have been proposed lately, in the last few years, therefore, I believe that a strong attack on the constitutional position of the state institutions, or officials elected and appointed. So I am that this law is thoroughly shaken and reviewed and that they try to offer some new solutions, but I am so that what is saved, under the terms of the alleged, on the salaries of these high-ranking officials primarily schedules to police officers in state agencies, officials and deputies under the rank of the assistant minister or director of a particular agency, because I will only tell you, therefore, if we continue to take away people's right to work in Sarajevo only for Sarajlije in the future, because professional associates and employees and tenants can't actually live on this money in Sarajevo at all, nor can they come to work, nor have paid transportation if it's more than 80 km, etc. etc. So it might make sense to review that payout and look at how nominal that savings is to see what that means in nominal amounts. I claim that it does not mean anything, and therefore these measures that are constantly proposed from white bread, so for the sake of the boards of directors, there is something similar today in some other laws than such, I do not see that they have effectively raised the level of this, the work of this Parliament and led to better work, every day the work is getting worse. So I don't know where these money is, or who it's saved, or who it's given to, or what it's given. What counterpart Saša Magazinović said, we have ways of diversifying ourselves in the electoral units where we come from, to help, to do and I believe that we all do, someone has already talked about it, in one way or another, so that the formation of these quasi funds and the adoption of such a law that has no constitutional basis is simply an impossible mission. What I'm saying is that somehow lately he's been attaching himself to the full position of elected and appointed officials from the position of non-employees, hostapplers, people who have strayed here, etc. etc. I'll remind you that back in '96, '97, '98. by 2000 and certain representatives of the international community, as well as the institutions of this country and at various levels, have stimulated salaries and I will remind you that they were higher before 2008 than both MPs and others were now, because they were actually asked to come and work in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to work on the basis, in achieving the state, etc. Is this the time, therefore, that one's goals and one's dreams have not been achieved, so now that money should be taken away and those who came to Sarajevo at that time should now be expelled from Sarajevo, this, by taking away those wages, rights or injustices, I don't get into it, and it seems to me that it is. Again, I am attached to that discussion today at other points of the agenda, and it seems more and more to me that one part of my fellow MPs who are involved and those I called today are all making anarchy in this country. So, for that, I will end it myself to amend the Law on Payments and Refunds to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that, therefore, it is done by the Council of Ministers, to see a new projection of salaries and compensation of all employees, that what would be saved by 20%, 30%, 15%, I have no idea how many pedals, so first of all point to employees who and how they need our help. Because I'm telling you that if we continue to take away our rights, first of all, of course we're in Agent 42, I don't know the director of the agencies, etc. But professional associates and officials who work for administration, soldiers, officers is so much so that people simply can't go to guard posts anymore, that they won't come to their duties, so the salaries are nothing, we can't increase them, so now I suggest, so, first of all, that we find ways for people who work in state institutions to be as happy as they can, that they can work here otherwise,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7072	Time, Mr. Lovrinović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7073	and it seems to me that it is the urgency that in these institutions only those from Sarajevo are employed, or perhaps up to Vogosce, or I don't know here to Zenica, if we continue like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7074	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7075	Of course we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7076	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7077	My colleague Lovrinović mentioned me in his discussion, which could be interpreted as representing the same attitude against this law, so he opposes me, I support such measures. So, I didn't say that we have a way to organize ourselves in our election units as he quoted it, I said that I would support the law because I'm not changing anything, because I'm already implementing it in my own capacity and I've been looking for an explanation whether if we adopt it today, it will be able to be implemented, or it will come into effect, and it will be answered whether, as we all get here and we all get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7078	Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7079	Well, I'd like to correct some of the wrong allegations that have been heard here, above all Mr. Lovrinović's allegations are here in the first, in Article 2. The laws precisely listed by officials, so whose wages would be reduced in this way and this, therefore, only has a temporary character by the end of 2020 precisely to resuscitate the effects of the coronary virus, and some of the categories that he listed are actually civil servants where there was no talk about here. Another thing I'd say is that as soon as you touch the receptions here you hear the concepts of pulsism, counter-constitutional act, etc. Of course, the receipts are regulated by law, but precisely because of the fact that they are high and precisely because of the perception of citizens that they are not high, but that they are too high, a certain number of MPs, so they are going into action to reduce them. No one here says anything is being done against the law, but our receipts are really too high. And since the very beginning of my work in Parliament, I have advocated, among other things, the suspension of the flats where the research has been done and where I have repeated it here several times, ours have been the largest in the region after Slovenia, and Slovenia has the obligation to, in Slovenia, have the obligation to file an account where the funds have been spent and for what purposes. So also the notion of populism, I think I don't know what's populist here if we want to show solidarity with citizens and try to participate, so, and make our contribution to overcoming this pandemic-induced crisis. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7080	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7081	Thank you. So, as my colleague Magazinović and I do not object, I am even offering a permanent solution, so colleagues offer some sort of solution by the end of the year, I am offering a permanent solution for the Council of Ministers to deal with this Law and to see it introduce a fairer way of sharing the money it has for these purposes in the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I have another proposal, if colleagues accept it, therefore, which can be even closer to the citizens, and let me remind you, so to some of you who have proposed these laws, the citizens have not even given their trust, only thanks to the criminal law that you are where you are, so that's what you've been saying today, and some of you have given it to them despite the opposition and some of the earlier measures, so here again, the citizens have given it to them. I suggest the following, if the budget has no money and has not collected it, it doesn't have to be paid at all, so make it a budget due month, two, three, if it doesn't meet first, so the obligation of the budget that it has ahead of it and which it is obliged to carry out like loans and I don't know some others, and the wages when it comes we'll get paid and that's especially to come from the highest ones, so we'll wait the longest until the budget has paid. Or I have the best proposal, if you will, so I suggest that all functions from the position of assistant chiefs in agencies or here in the parliamentary office, all behave voluntarily, so let here in this Parliament and in this Council of Ministers, the agencies are the ones who will love Bosnia and Herzegovina the most, work without money, we don't need any choices, so we don't need anything, so set it up so we do volunteer work, so whoever will, who won't give him a wide range of Bosnia. We don't need an election, we don't spend money on it, so we don't have the need, and we don't have just the flat-rate estimates that someone's salaries are high, some low, no comparisons, what do they get in the nominal amount of those 10%, 20% savings, which fund, which they're going to have, what criteria they're going to share, this way they're going to get respirators like what, so the only money that's going to come back to my central Bosnia if I bring and take it to some folk kitchen, and if they stay here in the budget -- you know how much they're going to come down? Nothing. Where are those savings from the previous proposals?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7082	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7083	Tell me where they were spent, what, who was it good for? Oh, make them see them, so, especially those who protect themselves from people thinking so, I just don't know where they've been doing it... So, I'm offering a permanent solution to the Council of Ministers reviewing the entire law, trying to find the parameters within all of this, so if there's even somewhere to give that money, there's no problem, in mass, but like this, making laws and still claiming it's not populism, come on, it's just that.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7084	Thank you. Mr. Denis Zvizdić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7085	57 Thank you, Chairman. I just want to make one clarification, given that in one of the discussions of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it was put in a negative context that we did not respond in time to the adopted Bills and Amendments to the BiH Constitution. I want to say that the College, I'm not a college lawyer, I am a member of the College, that the College has fully acted in accordance with the procedures envisaged, these are two different procedures. The law was proposed to be considered by an emergency procedure and therefore immediately went to the agenda of this session, and amendments to the Constitution cannot be considered by an emergency procedure, only by regular legislative procedure, and the College sent these materials in 05.05., i.e. as a competent authority, to the Constitutional Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. After that, amendments to the Constitution were no longer found as a part of the agenda of the College, as soon as they were found, of course, to be forwarded and the agenda of the Parliament's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7086	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7087	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Lovrinović has already reiterated here one hundred times that some in this Parliament are sitting without the citizens giving them confidence and that some here are thanks to the sacracial Electoral Law, these are the words of Mr Lovrinović. Well, I can only agree that the surreal election law by which Mrs. Krišto gets a thousand votes less than I do, and sits up in the College, what do you call it than the nakaradan Electoral Law. I mean, a person with 4,400 votes is a member of the College and decides whether to vote today on emergency austerity measures or not, whether something goes away or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7088	What's wrong with the quote, Mr. Arnaut?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7089	Well, the false allegation, he was saying, I'm correcting his false allegations, that, this is your classic definition, Mr. Radmanović, the wrong quote, and I'm trying to correct it here, I think he's so guilty, but here I am trying to correct it. But you don't have a better example of the domestic election law, your boss, Mr. Lovrinović, Borjana Krišto, who sits as a member of the College with only 4,400 votes. So where there's this in the world, where there's this in the world except Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's a classic example of the nadadal Electoral Law, and I agree with you to change that. I'll be your great ally here to change that, that we no longer have this kind of narcissistic situation as you mention it. There are, I mean, what, I'm totally, I'm the first to advocate, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina there should be not only three, but four members of the College of the Bosniak, Croatian, Serbian people and others, to implement all those verdicts. But I guess there are people, too, with a little more votes than 4400. So, Mr. Lovrinović, when you talk about the radical Electoral Law first, clean up at your club, not to mention in front of my house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7090	Thank you. 58 Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7091	Well, here I would refer to that statement by Mr. Lovrinović, that some of us are sitting here thanks to some of the nakarad laws, but I'd say that, here, we who were here for the first time have not passed those laws. So, if the domestic laws in BiH are then the blame is on the people in the earlier mandates, and especially those who sit here for several terms and let these redundancies remain in force, and we are certainly for the amendments to the Election Law in many segments, but here are some of us for the first time, so I cannot bear the blame for these nadal laws and so think about what you have done here in this House, you who are sitting here after several mandates, and yet in the end we have criminal laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7092	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7093	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, this last colleague of hers can, for example, refer to Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Halid Genjac, etc. I was here last term and this is the second term. And a colleague who opposed what I said, he had, had been elected last term, and after the great savings he had made to the budget and all that he had done for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina had not been elected, and his constituency and election unit Mrs. Krišto is heaven and country, therefore, in the number of voters, in the number of all, so this is a story for small children. I'm just saying that the law is freakish and I stand behind it in many segments, even in this. And so what you did and suggested for the efficiency and efficiency of this Parliament, so she just reversed it, as far as I can tell. So I don't know anything that's been promoted, and I'm asking -- where is that money saved from, the millions you're talking to, who's been given, what's been given? My central Bosnia, you're a bit of a morgen date. So I don't want any of what's here, except to go to the employees and to my central Bosnia, to stay here in Sarajevo, because here I don't believe how you share and what you do, and I'll never believe it. So, this is a story for little kids, there's a law, I'm willing to support it, let it discuss it effectively, let the new law be fully given, let it be reduced, but let it be known who they go to and how they go. And what you're talking about, well that's what you can talk about, so here you are talking, and you just haven't passed, sir, you haven't passed, seven MPs here have from the compensation list, so that's not, like, 42, which is parliament. So if you got two, three thousand votes, I got 13 or I don't know my colleagues got 30, 40 thousand votes and debated. You keep offering us initiatives here, you keep doing something, you keep accusing us of being criminals. Well, I was saying this last term, so I got the citizens' trust. You said that last term, did, offered, and did not pass, sir, so the citizens you represent did not trust you. It's not... it's just what I'm gonna do to you, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7094	I warn you of respecting the agenda, please. We're going back to the agenda. Correction of the wrong quote Mr. Damir Arnaut, second time, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7095	So, Mr. Lovrinović, I've been stolen 59
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7096	Second time, second time, here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7097	I've been stolen for 15 seconds, please understand. So, Mr. Lovrinović, he's been given an correction to the wrong quote, you see, you've already gone with the boss because you've made me like her sitting in a college with four thousand votes, and that's one, one of the features of that super-selection bill. However, if you are already talking about the number of votes, it means that if the number of votes is what in Bosnia and Herzegovina gives legitimacy to the elected official, then what is the problem that Mr. Komšić is sitting in the BiH presidency, if he gets more votes than Mr. Dragan Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7098	Mr. Arnaut, agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7099	Mr. Radmanović, I'm correcting his guilty allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7100	It's not the number of votes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7101	I can't stick to the agenda when he gets out of the agenda, I'm correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7102	And I warned him, and I warn you, don't make me take my word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7103	So wait, you gave him two minutes, you won't give me a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7104	I'm giving you three minutes and counting on what I've interrupted.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7105	Two minutes is the correction of the wrong quote, so it's not three. Therefore, if the number of votes, Mr Lovrinović, measured the problem that Mr Komšić is sitting in the presidency, he received much more votes than Dragan Čović. This is the second time you've made love, you're talking about the number of votes, and you're not ready to get into the essence then, are you? So, don't lose your legitimacy to talk about the number of votes now, you've lost your legitimacy to talk about the radical election law, if we have a person in the College with four thousand votes, and if the number of votes is total, then Mr Komšić, therefore, according to you completely legitimately sits in... because I think he sits legitimately in the chair of a member of the presidency, but you seem to have agreed with me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7106	60 Proposal for a law on the mandatory contribution of officials to BiH institutions, please do not turn the debate into a number of votes, because then we will go, then I will begin, so until some are here who are the loudest. Please. Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7107	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm not used to shooting things like this, especially when it comes to electoral legitimacy. First of all, I want to tell my colleague Arnaut, who may know, maybe he doesn't, but if he doesn't know I won't be angry, because maybe these things should be discussed with him by someone else, I'm not invited and competent. When it comes to my election base and my party, I am a member of the HDZ BiH, I was in the elections within the Croatian National Assembly Club together with other parties and my election result in 107,310 votes. What you're saying is that I have 4.440 votes, these are the preferred voices that people recognize, I don't even know how much, whether they're smaller or bigger, it's so irrelevant to me and I don't sit in this club, so as someone who's chosen by preferential votes, I'm in this House of Representatives directly elected in front of my electoral unit, which is Unsko-Sanska and Hercegbosan County. I'm proud of those voters, I have a responsible access to them, and when I speak here, I speak for the reason I have my own base. I know that you can't understand it and that it's hard for you today, no matter how hard you try to caricate and talk about the Election Law, no matter what, no matter what, everyone has their own political position in the election law, but you're really sitting in this House and I'm sorry that you don't know what your election base is, because you came from the compensation list. And as far as we all know, these are the remaining voices of all those other parties that are unscheduled, not to other parties, but in order to get it. Once again, I am sorry that you have such bitterness, and I am otherwise proud, once again, as the elected representative of the HDZ of BiH in front of UN-Sanska and Hercegbosan County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7108	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7109	Thank you, Chairman. Article 1 The Rules of Procedure, which states that everyone will respect the BiH Constitution, which of course includes constitutional court rulings, or constitutional courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Constitutional Court of the Federation of BiH's ruling clearly states that there is no Hercegbosan County, but there is a Canton X, thus correcting the wrong allegation. And Mrs. Krišto, as much as you're trying to change the facts, I've won a thousand votes more in the election than you have.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7110	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Safet Softić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7111	61 On that, Mr. Chairman, what I mean is that it could be subdued by the Rules of Procedure, but here's seeing that all of this institution is using the wrong quote to address the public and its voters and to express its position, and here I am going to use this institute and say what I think about all of this. I personally believe that in this parliamentary hall there is a very high level of parliamentary appreciation for fellow Members sitting here, given some other parliaments and the unloved scenes we often see, I think there is indeed a good atmosphere, and above all probably thanks to the responsibility of MPs and the work of the Colleges that avoids all incident situations. But what I've heard today on two occasions or two things I've heard in this session on many occasions today, I want to react to them with regard to the fact that I really don't think they contribute to this good atmosphere in this House. Namely, Mr. Damir Arnatu is the last MP in this, in this room I would defend from anyone, because he seems to me to have enough personal quality to defend himself, but in this case I think he's really right and I don't think there really should be a difference between MPs who have received a direct mandate and a compensatory mandate in this room here, because it simply doesn't have to work, nor should the Electoral Law be called a nakarad. All MPs in this room have the same responsibilities, the same duties, and there are probably reasons why such compensatory mandates exist in the Electoral Law. This, therefore, does not mean at all if I received 25,000 votes by direct elections, that some colleague who entered this Parliament through the compensation mandate will not be more valuable to the MP here, more do so, etc. So I ask you to stop this story, because we really don't need it, and it just contributes to the bad atmosphere between us here, and we see that the agenda is really large. And the second thing I want to react to is the fact that I've heard from a few colleagues today, that MPs, MPs, are being challenged by the law's right to propose, or in some way their right is being denied. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, clearly guarantees this House the right for each of us to be active and to work, to propose laws. The fact that the Council of Ministers has slept through these two, three months of crisis and that the Council of Ministers has not responded to this crisis by offering this Parliament and the House of Peoples to offer, therefore, some solutions that would mean solidarity with people during this crisis, and the greatest solidarity between us who are actually the best paid in this country, does not necessarily mean that those who propose such solutions should be ashamed or called populists. Everyone has the right, therefore, to determine against this, that there is a better solution in the parliamentary procedure on the agenda, I would vote for it. I prefer to vote in favour of the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers as an organ that has all the resources to consider, uh, every law in general, but if there is no reason why I do not see any good initiative, even if it came from opposition MPs, we do not support and therefore, here I call on these two things to be avoided in the future and to try to go a little faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7112	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7113	As for the correction of the wrong allegation relating to the name of Hercegbosan County and the Constitutional Court Decision on the name of that county, I will remind all of you, and also to a colleague, I hope he does not know, if he does not know he will have time. The name of Hercegbosan County is declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court has never put the name Hercegbosan County outside the legal force and 62 until that name is changed, or until the decision is implemented by the name of my county is Hercegbosanska and I am proud to say it here and I will continue to say it in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7114	Thank you. Regular discussion, Mr. Nermin Nikšić. I'm sorry, Zlatan Begić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7115	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm advocating a violation of article 77. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of respecting the agenda. Believe me, about all the teams that we've heard here today and where we see that there's a crackdown of elected MPs on this or on that line, which wouldn't be controversial if it were all part of the agenda, we from the Club of Representatives of the DF and so we could join such a way of working, stick to the letter, explain constitutional norms, judgments of the Constitutional Court, get into discussions, debates, talk to our electoral body, check after we've been published somewhere on the portals, but we ladies and gentlemen here today come to work, have very important laws on the agenda. You know, in February 2014, there was a popular rebellion, don't think it won't happen to you and it can't happen again. Don't get me wrong, I don't call for anything, but people around these parliaments can break in with sticks, because today really doesn't make sense. We try to be as quiet as possible and be constructive and here I am, and I call upon the Honorable Chairman to take the wheel into his own hands, if he should take away the word, to interrupt discussions that are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The question is where will this take us, the people on the street are hungry, the people will have nothing to eat tomorrow, the companies are closing down, the knant production plants, what we're talking about here today. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I had to intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7116	Thank you, Mr. Begić, and for your support, and let me remind you that I have only been reminded twice of the article 77 you're talking about, but here we continue the regular debate. Mr. Nermin Nikšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, here I am going to try to stick to the agenda point, yeah. So, I am in line with those who, as Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, worked to reduce the privilege of whether or not the subject of this law we are considering today and what Mr. Lovrinović said rightly, we lost the election, so we did work on reducing the privilege, but lost the election. I'm saying we don't have to change the Constitution if we want to reduce the privileges of elected officials, that we don't have to lift them. We then, well remember, the costs of that mental pain and for a separate life from 700 KM were reduced to 1 KM, so whoever wants to take that 1 KM. The abolished transport costs and what I know, so the series of privileges that can be made, not to go into the Constitution, in that provision that speaks of the reduction of the salaries of elected officials. It wasn't long ago that the CIN survey, so the Research Reporting Centre, which identified countless abuses of deputies when it came to housing costs in Sarajevo, so I think from controlled representatives, they found that they really lived where they were reported and what they were getting the money for. 63 So, I want to say that I believe in good faith and I support the principles of this Law, and I also think that it is irrelevant how much of the resources that will be achieved by these savings, whether they are symbolic or not, this is an important message that would be sent as representatives, whether and because of this I consider an inappropriate little nervous reaction by a respected representative of Arnaut towards, according to my colleague Saša Magazinović, who said very precisely that he would support the Law, but also pointed out the illogicality that stands in the Law. So, I want to tell you that I don't believe that there will be an application of this law, even if by some miracle these two fuses pass through, that the House of Peoples passes, and then that this constitutional amendment is adopted. Because I simply don't believe in the experience and work of entity governments so far, or the Council of Ministers' disincentives, that these funds would be spent fairly and fairly, some rabblers, carpenters or tourist agencies would come back to fit them. Therefore, he would not want us to be accused of hypocrisy in any way because we are voting for some law knowing that it will not come to its application. So... out loud here to say it. I've always been against those conclusions, you know something you don't adopt, and then you adopt the conclusion that it's the law, so how it should be done rather than the law. Therefore, despite my support and other colleagues and colleagues who will vote for the Law today, unfortunately he will not see the light of day and will not be applied. In the end, it will again remain that, it has been said by several colleagues and colleagues here, that each of us, as so far, in accordance with his commitment and conscience, decides what will, how much help and which of these funds. So, the fact that, and if the law is adopted afterwards, we should adopt a constitutional amendment, which further complicates its application, gives me the right to doubt, but I also want to make a declaration and vote, by voting to support these principles and to show hope whether or not we will get to the point that, as Mr. Lovrinović said, some integral law will all go a long way, perhaps in the Council of Ministers' proposal, so we will pass a law that will knowingly come out, because today no matter how much support there is, today it is difficult in Bosnia and Herzegovina to say that you are in politics, to say that you are a politician, because this is now tied up with countless affairs, with you are not a good man, that you are a criminal, that you are a usurping something, etc. So, support for the Law and principles against the fence that I really have a reserve that will come to its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7118	Thank you. Miss Sanja Vulić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7119	Chairman, I must say that this proposal for a law without reflection would accept that our colleagues have suggested that we have a yearly obligation to give up one full salary and that here is the Centre of Civil Initiatives, let's say, a real report which of us has given that salary to, whether, and that it is absolutely possible to give it to certain funds, foundations, associations, wherever, and that these are not political parties. I think it would be acceptable for all of us, personally, to me, but this bill is absolutely unacceptable to me and I personally find this my discretionary right where I will and how much money I give from my salary. Personally, I took part in all the activities of Republika Srpska and all that it did in the city of Doboj, as well as the Republika Srpska Solidarity Fund. What you fellow respected have suggested to me is absolutely not clear how this distribution of money will be done and I will not think about where a part of my money will go and who. If it was done on, it could be the same thing that happened to these IMF money, that they outsmarted where, what, when, when, how, how much, to do percentages, you say -- if you can't go to Republika Srpska so much, because you have so many or so MPs. I believe that this is purely discrimination and that we should all stick to our electoral bases, as our colleagues have said, in that if we are going to volunteer the way we operate, to act and to give as much as we feel we should and can, and if we are going to go into the frameworks of the law and change 64 laws, then I think we should change it in a way that we are obliged and obliged at an annual level to give up one salary and to show it to Parliament or to the CCI when we are already monitoring every fening where it moves, I absolutely don't mind it. I wouldn't mind that part of them following where they're going, but this way, the law is absolutely unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7120	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7121	The discussion now of the bill's proposal, therefore, is not a replica. Let's see, just to remind ourselves, so what's the proposal in this law, it's very simple, that every elected and appointed official, so every MP and minister is separated 20% from the salary every month, put into one fund controlled by the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers very well knows that it is a ruling coalition, and we are an opposition. So we don't have a problem with letting the ruling coalition control this fund and then focusing the money on solving the economic consequences caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 20% of each salary, none of us should say no, but it seems that we will have such a situation here and I really don't understand why any of it would be unacceptable to anyone, therefore, exclusively applies to elected and appointed officials at BiH institutions, does not touch employees' salaries, definitely doesn't touch police salaries and what might be most important to mention, this bill does not in any way endanger health and social funds, i.e. pension funds or health funds in entities because the salary continues to be accounted for and contributions are paid on that salary, and then before the MP goes into account, 20% is allocated to this special fund and then used to fight the COVID pandemic. Someone also mentioned percentages, the BiH Constitution makes it very clear that the distribution of officials in BiH institutions is 1/3 from Republika Srpska's entity, 2/3 from the Federation. It is so in this House, in this House there are 14 MPs from Republika Srpska, 28 from the Federation, that is 1/3 versus 2/3. In the Council of Ministers, 1/3 of the ministers is from Republika Srpska's entity, 2/3 of the Federation. It's a constitutional category, it can't be touched, it can't be changed. The ambassadors when they are named 1/3 are obliged to come from Republika Srpska, and 2/3 from the Federation and because of that, and this has nothing to do with, someone mentioned percentages, which is why I'm saying this, this has nothing to do with whether, with percentages of VAT, etc., these are simply percentages that are constitutional, not only guaranteed, but mandatory. So, if 1/3 comes from one entity and 2/3 from another entity and then they take money from these elected and appointed officials and puts it into this special fund, it's the only possible distribution in terms of percentages. And as for Mr. Nikšić, uh, mentioned this, I didn't really respond to Mr. Magazinović's dictatorship and, behold, I will now remind him of his discussion on January 29th 2015 in the stenogram. Mr. Magazinović made it very clear that, is it that, at the time, the bill that I also wrote about the removal of white bread is not good, here, I read from the stenogram – I do not agree with your conclusion that the adoption of this Law abolishs the privilege of so-called white bread. I want to explain, and then he's talking about article 48. etc., and then he says – here we will adopt him, I will vote for him, we agreed at the beginning, but it will mean that the compensation for white bread remains in the law, only administratively. So Mr. Magazinović convinced me in January 2015 that my bill would leave white bread. My bill passed, Mr. Magazinović voted for it, I thank him once more for it, but my bill abolished the white 65 bread. And that is why I have reacted to this, Mr. Magazinović, I guarantee that if this goes through, that this will, uh, lead to a reduction in wages and that the law is fully well written and that we have taken all the procedural actions including the proposed amendments to the BiH Constitution to ensure it. So, it's the same situation as in January 2015 when you claimed you'd vote, but it won't end the white bread. White bread's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7122	Thank you. Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7123	Thank you, Chairman. Actually, colleague Aranut gave me the creamworth to ask the question, here, to us, the coalition. What kind of coalition are we that the opposition is making for fate and law? So, uh, it's really a matter of thinking for our colleges and our party leadership, it's definitely what you said. What I need to say, and what I left out, is that the presidency has already discussed the information provided by the Council of Ministers twice, and everything on the subject of combating the coronary virus. That's what I need to say just for the reasons of those attacks and those accusations that were in previous discussions that the Council of Ministers had done nothing about it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7124	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7125	A fellow Arnaut has an irresistible feeling that even those who support him are awakening some sense of guilt for supporting him. When people who are allies in implementing a policy reacts this way, then there is nothing left to conclude that he is actually trying to find someone to argue with no matter what the subject is. So, I don't want to be, I don't have that kind of politics. Everyone chooses their direction and, ultimately, everyone's direction is valued in the elections. What your colleague Arnut needs, I can't give you, nor can you get it from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7126	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports when it comes to point 8. 66 We move to point nine, Ad. Nine. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Temporary Measures in the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other disasters on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01,02-02-1-865/20 of 29. 04. 2020 Mr. Chairman, is there anyone who can explain that? If not, in accordance with Article 74. Rules of Procedure, we don't have a debate unless someone in the House thinks they should, but then we plead it out. Mr. Emrić, we haven't even opened the debate. There's no one here. There's no debate. Point 9 is removed from the agenda. Point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for Amendment II and Amendment III to the Constitution of BiH, Proposer: MEP Dženan Đonlagić, No: 01-02-1-317/20 of 24. 02. In 2020, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7132	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH. A shorter version, which in fact defines more precisely some of the challenges facing the Bosnian Herzegovina society for the past few years. This is in fact a alignment with international standards, an additional protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified in 2017, together with EU directives, on the prevention of terrorism 2017/541. These changes also allow further criminalisation of activities involving the misuse of information technologies, the Internet and social networks for terrorist purposes, in light of new technologies. Especially given that the internet and social networks are being radicalised and recruited by potential terrorists. These changes also allow the removal of digital content that suggests and encourages terrorist activities. This adoption of amendments to the Penal Code in some ways acts preventively, especially today when Bosnia and Herzegovina faces increased security challenges that bring with it the migrant crisis. It is expected that this pandemic will further affect the state of society, so both Bosnia and Herzegovina is going through it. I would like to point out that behind this bill, amending and supplementing the BiH Penal Code, a broad political platform of political parties in the previous composition and assembly of the Parliamentary House of BiH, but unfortunately, due to the interruption of the last session in the old assembly, this Law was not treated and not made known about this Law. That is why, together with my colleagues, as it stands in the signature, I have taken the decision to refer this Law on Amendment and Completion of the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the parliamentary procedure. In the drafting of the proposal itself, except for the broad front of the parties, as I said, the consultation was carried out with experts from these, from this area from various institutions, the Ministry of Security, the Anti-Terrorism Department, the Court of Appeal of Brcko District, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Department of Anti-Terrorism, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of the Federation of BiH, SIPA, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Political Sciences and some NGOs. That is why we believe that a broad range of consultations has been made with those who will also work on the implementation of this Law. 68 What I want to point out is that you actually have in the materials the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, which in its own way expressed a certain reserve, i.e. it wants a maximumist requirement to be incorporated into the amendments to the Criminal Law of BiH. But, as I said, this is one minimum that had the full political consent of political parties that had then been participated in the development of this legal solution. Therefore, since it is a shortened procedure, and we have the opportunity to possibly achieve a political agreement to install in the revision of the BiH Criminal Law, but this is, as I said, a minimum that we agreed on and, behold, I expect from you my colleague and colleagues support for this legal solution in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7133	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So again, this is one law on the trail of what I've been saying all day and the right to tell you, I don't know if it makes any more sense to talk. So again, it's a proposal, but this is an old proposal that was in circulation as a colleague and said, from the last term, so, come on, it can be tolerated a little bit, not to go through the Council of Ministers. It's another law that's quite specialized and I don't mind. Here, even if I didn't find anything special to support it, as far as I was able to track what was proposed, however, I would like, since this is the first reading that somehow, or I suggest one conclusion, that this text be delivered to the Council of Ministers and that we get some opinion from the Council of Ministers, or that the Proposer himself does so until the second reading, in order to avoid any misunderstandings that we have talked about all day. I hope he does, so here, so I don't mind going through this first reading, but by the second reading we still have a position at least in the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7135	Thank you. Ms. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7136	Dear Chairman, thank you very much. Here is truly respecting the efforts and intentions and the desire of the promoter to institutionally strengthen the fight against terrorism and, in particular, some of its forms, I really appreciate there, this effort and will and the intention to corrode some European Union directives in the best way possible, but I believe that it is our duty that systems or a system to fight crime are done at all, not to create additional confusion, especially where there is no room or need. I will be specific, the problem in this proposal that is before us is that it contains or explains some crimes that have already been defined by entity law. So I think, if this proposal were to be adopted, there would be room for too wide an interpretation and arbitration in action. Also, there is a possibility of confusion, duplication, 69 legal uncertainty, and it is a particularly dangerous possibility to indirectly, as far as we are concerned, carry out and transfer competences. So not to be just that, that these are just flat-rates, now I'm going to give you the key and the key in a row, very briefly, the disadvantages. In particular, Article 1 of this proposal proposes adding new two points concerning certain criminal acts that relate to information security and crime. In particular, the works proposed here are incriminating to members 407 and 408. The criminal law of Republika Srpska, which in its entire head, means the 32nd fully incriminating all crimes involving the information, or security of computer data as it stands there. Then, in Article 2, Article 2. The proposal treats and proposes certain acts in the field of direct terrorism, etc. I also remind you that the member, in the Criminal Law of Republika Srpska, is detailed from members 299 to 305, or a whole head dedicated to terrorism, and we do not see at all the need to be duplicated in this way and to make the law into law. We need to implement and implement existing laws and strengthen institutions to do their job best, and not to say again, I mean, by appreciating the will and desire to better define criminal measures or I don't know, to integrate European directives, but this is really duplication. The following, article 3, also mentions certain crimes in the area of terrorism, which I have already said is that, uh, there are all these acts described in the Criminal Law of Republika Srpska. Honestly, I haven't dealt with the Federation law, but I still need to point out that, uh, in Article 3, so now this last, last sub-member, as I would call it, 202G which proposes to introduce... or explain the criminal act of counterfeiting the document, it is my duty to point out that this BiH Criminal Law has not defined at all this criminal act of counterfeiting the document, so I think that with good will again and surely respecting the good will and intention of the promoter, I think we should be very careful in adopting this Act and make sure that some things do not happen to us that will be problematic in practice. With this in mind we will follow, the SNSD Club will follow, will not support, this proposal today but will follow the procedure and we will see how this will take place in the overall course of the legislative process within the entire Parliamentary Assembly, but here, I am asking you to really understand and redefined these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7137	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7138	Now, the chairman, a little strange, I expected that there would be some general consensus around this law, given that a large number of MPs proposed this in the previous assembly of Parliament, from different parliamentary clubs and, behold, I see here on the screen, among other things, the distinguished colleague Lazar Prodanović from the SNSD Club. From what we've heard...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7139	And what about correcting Mr. Borenović's wrong quote? 70
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7140	As we've heard, the SNSD Club has a grudge against this proposed legal solution. I must really ask the question – what happened in the meantime to give up something that was a general consensus and what was behind the SNSD's parliamentary club in the previous Parliament's meeting, since Mr. Prodanović strongly supported this legal solution, amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law? It's something I wanted to share with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7141	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7142	Mr. Chairman. I am correcting Mr. Borenović's allegations that the SNSD Club supported the bill in the last term. The fact is that one of our MPs, both in the past and in the current assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly, participated in a working group in the desire to contribute to the integration of the 2017/541 directive into domestic legislation. It only tells Mr. Borenović that the SNSD is one democratic party although you are trying to get what's coming from Republika Srpska, and it is connected to the SNSD that you defuse the maximum. We even have an internally very developed and strong democratic and discussion and the possibility of proposing different things, but that doesn't mean that we are going to come here and do something that we really think has something to do with the transfer of competence and that it has to do with unnecessary, as I said, duplication of legislation that can lead to confusion. So, uh, you're misinformed as usual.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7143	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7144	Thank you, Chairman. I have a purely well-intentioned suggestion, but I'm just not sure right now either in the legal sense and in terms of the legal definition of whether I'm right, so I should check it out. I don't know if this law had previously come to the opinion of the Council of Ministers, have we received any opinions from whom? In part, if it is, it can happen or as I would already say, I don't know either, it can be true what the honourable Member of Snježana is saying, but it seems to me, but I am saying, it should be checked that we would not come into one, that we are not in one delusion or one kind of misunderstanding, that we should miss the chance to improve the Law, that the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Entity incriminate those actions that are directed against the constitutional arrangements and integrity of the entities, and that this is about amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, i.e. the KZ of BiH. So I'm saying, I don't know if we're clear or not in this situation. If the KZ of Republika Srpska, or entity incriminates and prescribes only crimes aimed at constitutional arrangement and order of entities, then there is room here for 71 to fix, so, and if they incriminate, if they do not incriminate and limit themselves to the entity area, then there is no need to do anything. Thank you. I don't know if I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7145	Thank you for your well-intentioned suggestions, as you say. Correction of the wrong allegations, Branislav Borenović, I hope with well-intentioned suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7146	Well, I'm not talking about who's informed or not informed and who's got any democracy in my political party. We can talk about this probably days where in this Parliament and elsewhere. I am talking here about official acts and official documents, and as far as we can see from the document, which clearly states that, in accordance with the members of certain Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, MPs Magazinović, Emrić, Mehmedović, have taken over the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of BiH since 28.8.2018, which they then proposed, a group of MPs, including, of course, one part of the MPs coming from Republika Srpska and from almost all MPs' clubs at that time, and Mr. Novaković, both Mr. Bojić and Mr. Lazar Prodanović, is identical text. And that is why my question – what has changed in the meantime is that the signature of the esteemed colleague of Prodanović is no longer valid when it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of that year, which is here, we see here before us, which was sent by colleagues who were then in that group of MPs, who probably worked long and kept track of everything as soon as they signed and headed for the assembly procedure. That's something for me that I want to share with you, that we all see here on the screen, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7147	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7148	Don't let a fellow Prodanović get in a bad position, 'cause that's not what he signed. So this is the Law, as you can see, which was proposed by nine representatives of political parties and the only reason why this Law was not adopted, because it was before the end of the term of office. Why did they take over these three MPs, because they stayed on about this House, that's very simple. The law worked with the IRI International Republican Institute in Washington and participated in the creation of the Law of the People of the Institutions and analysed everything we're saying. This is the same argument as the one about VAT. We came here to discuss it now and no one has ever discussed it. All this has passed, and therefore not all parliamentary parties from Republika Srpska have signed the law after this whole story we're talking about here has been clarified to the point in the way it was Mr. Mektić, who was then a minister and should have at least followed this, I don't know if he followed it, but as he asked the question, all this was clarified. So we can do it one more time, but believe me, those people didn't all work for a year and a few days and eventually put their signature on, because someone cheated on them. 72 As for me personally, let in the first reading, so the Law is set in two readings, let in the first reading, if anything is wrong, fix it. Or, here's to clarify all this until the second reading, but there's no reason in this stage to stop the Law that's been working on for a long time, now I'm telling you, who's been working, nine representatives of political parties have signed off and just because the assembly has changed in part, now we have to start all over again. Here, I'm asking you to let go of the first reading, I'll support you if it turns out that way in the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7149	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7150	Here, thank you. So, correcting, let's say, and quote both Mr. Borenović and Saša Magazinović, I didn't say one word about the promoters, nor did I say good intentions. So, I've talked about the essence of the proposal, cited the members who exist in the Criminal Law of Republika Srpska, my intention has been repeated three times at least, that what my intention is, what my discussion is, what I mean is, that there is no duplication, that there are no unnecessary situations in implementation, and that, uh, what you hear or what someone has a need to do, yes, here, it's superficially dealing with certain things, that yours, yours, yours too. So, once again I return, don't ask any MPs, every MP and group and individual I truly support that right, and even an MP from my club if he wants to participate for some reason in making any proposal, so that's our right. So, don't bring anyone into an awkward situation, let's deal with the essence. I think I've been clear enough in my discussion. There's no need, and even here, I think I understood even Mr. Mektić well what he wanted to point to. I think that he understands me well and I think that this proposal has a lot to do with this proposal, so that the Ministry of Justice and the Entity Ministry of Justice can be made clear, so that I do not repeat it again, so that we do not get into trouble. With all due respect and faith that a group of MPs worked knowingly, that they had helpers, etc., but I have a right and I think I'm well prepared for this point. I made clear arguments and let's get back to that kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7151	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7152	My dear colleague, I did not replicate you, but Borenović. So, Borenović is the only one who mentioned Prodanović. So I've replicated to him, and I don't know why you're answering me. That my explanation might have, uh, been directed towards you and that you hadn't followed that process in the last term, that is, but my replica was directed towards Borenović. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7153	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7154	73 Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you and all your colleagues. I don't care if there's a transfer of jurisdiction here because it's not coming. There are four criminal justice systems in our country, both material and procedural, so that at the level of the state there is a criminal law applicable before the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, such as the Criminal Law of Republika Srpska, which applies to judicial authorities in Republika Srpska, means in front of district and basic prosecutors, district and basic courts and the tužilaštvo's Office and the Court of Justice in Republika Srpska. So there's no conflict, no jurisdiction, no transfer of jurisdiction. This law should be supported because it is a alignment with European Union directives on the fight against terrorism. And if a crime of terrorism is committed at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is important that our criminal legislation at the level of the state is in line with the European Union directives. However, I would call here on the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, which was given on 25 March 2020, which states that amendments to the Criminal Law relating to the definition of criminal offences in the fight against terrorism are not fully in line with Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Well, I think that in this first reading, we can support this Law, but that the promoters should, since it is a shortened procedure, in these shortened deadlines to review again everything that is indicated in this Opinion and to make possible compliance with the Directive, if, of course, it is necessary. However, I would return to the procedure of proposing legislation in Parliament. Here, in this law, we see how important it would be if the applicant were or that the proposer of this Law is the Ministry of Justice at the state level. This is a sophisticated law because the right rule is true – Nulla foam son of a lega, or – zero criminal son of a lega, that no one can be punished or processed without law. And now, under the laws of this country, assumptions are being made for the processing of all future perpetrators of a crime of terrorism that threatens the constitutional order of this country, and it is very important that these laws are being prepared by the profession. It is very important that people in the Ministry of Justice work on these laws, but I have no doubt that the people involved in the creation of this Law, because it is seen from the very precision of legal norms that they are professional people, but somehow it would be easier for us MPs to do so by the Ministry of Justice which is here and should be the official proposer of this Law. I will support this law in the first reading, but I would like you to look at the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration a little bit more and see what these differences are in their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7155	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7156	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I caught an opportunity to find the criminal KZ Republika Srpska and that Chapter 23. Crimes of terrorism, then Article 229, terrorism and all counts of terrorism. He says – who, in order to seriously intimidate citizens or force the authorities of Republika Srpska to do or not perform something, aims to seriously disrupt or destroy the basic constitutional, political, economic, social structures of Republika Srpska, commits one of the following acts that can cause serious damage to Republika Srpska. And it seems to me that I was right, that the KZ 74 of Republika Srpska prescribes a group of crimes that only mutilate and damage Republika Srpska and that this may be our chance to prescribe through the KZ BiH that it is generally related to who is jeopardising territorial integrity, neither I, Bosnia and Herzegovina or so on. So I, my proposal, would be personal or to take this off the agenda, so, uh, clear this situation up, or maybe let it go to another reading, so by then we can see if I'm actually right or wrong, what I'm proposing and, well, then we just wouldn't make one mistake and come into a situation where we don't incriminate in KZ BiH something that falls under obvious terrorism. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7157	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation cannot be used more than twice, and Mrs. Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać has used this agenda twice. Mrs Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7158	Well, I'd like to look back on what my colleague Mektić was saying. We have a lot of crimes and in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation, and the Brcko District, and the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina which are also perceived, but all these acts apply at a certain level of state government. This Criminal Law applies at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is applied by the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH. Republika Srpska's criminal law applies there and these acts are incriminating there and whoever commits the crime of terrorism on Republika Srpska's territory will be responsible under Republika Srpska's law and will be responsible for judicial authorities in Republika Srpska's territory. Whoever commits a crime of terrorism against the state of BiH falls under the sanctions of this law, the state law, and this is the problem of our four parallel criminal justice systems, because the European Union Directive obliges the Member States, the European Union, to integrate into their national legislation the provisions of this Directive by prescribing criminal acts of terrorism. We have an accident that we have four parallel criminal justice systems that exist parallelly and believe it's non-sensual in democratic states. It is the basis for discrimination against the citizens of this country, for their different punishments, for different treatment against the citizens of the same state, depending on the criminal justice system that is above their authority. And so, don't be afraid that there's a overlap between jurisdiction, taking over jurisdiction, the state is authorized and it has to regulate crimes against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7159	Thank you. Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7160	A fellow Mektić... Well, first of all, terrorism isn't something that's always about state or constitutional order. Terrorism is a danger to every citizen, to any family who may be his victim, and that may be why it is perhaps a little higher than Mr. Mektić's last proposal to take this down. The objections from Republika Srpska, I think Mrs Bursać said them, means the way in which a member of the 3rd is incorporated into the Criminal Law of BiH by Article 201, because the contents of that article have already been fully embedded and incriminated by the Criminal Law of Republika Srpska and there is room for too wide interpretation and then you need arbitration, that 75 arbitration. I say, whether it refers to a story about the constitutional order of the Republika Srpska or Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Federation. Let's go back to how there are citizens, that not everything is a broad political story about the state. Also, confusion contributes to uncertainty, a dangerous possibility of indirectly deciding on the measure of Republika Srpska on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory as interpreted as a transfer of jurisdiction. The proposal for a law in Article 202 also provides for a new criminal offence – the committing of a criminal offence by falsifying documents and crimes against property for the purpose of terrorist activities, and the BiH Criminal Law has not yet defined the criminal act of falsifying the document, nor the criminal act against property, or which are listed in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, the Federation or entity. There are, gentlemen, lots of holes. We're Parliament, we're not, as I say, friends in a bar or in a local community, let's take a little measure to work it out. I think this is a serious thing, and terrorism has no more serious, serious talk. The justice ministry and the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH and all people interested and expert groups should agree on this. Don't make this a reflection of the current political will or the current political quarrel between the MPs of parties and clubs and get a document whose usability is very questionable, and plus what I say cuts with the criminal laws here in Republika Srpska, the Federation does not... That's what I'm asking the promoters to consider for the best possible purpose. So, not to argue with anything, but please don't make a big deal out of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7161	Correction of the wrong quote, Miss Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7162	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I simply must point out that, the fact is that something prescribed as an entity legislation is currently not preventing the BiH Prosecutor's Office or the BiH Court of Justice from acting in accordance with Article 7(2) point (b) of the BiH Court Act. That's so many times done. Off the record, more than 20 times when it comes to the criminal law of Republika Srpska, and it cannot be said that there are double arches in the case of these crimes or as Čolo said, but what is a fact and what should be noted is that in this House we have double arches. When we had a debate on the fifth item of the agenda, you said it was totally irrelevant who proposed the law, why we MPs have the right, and we have the right, not to dispute, not to argue that right, away from that, but here, colleague Čolo said – why this didn't come from the Ministry, as I asked why that previous proposal didn't come from the Council of Ministers, why we don't have a position, etc. This is too serious a subject to discuss here. I think that by the second reading, there should be suggestions from all the more experienced colleagues in this matter, and I see that we have those who have now come forward after me, so I expect constructive proposals and that we will come up with a common solution that will be in the interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. both entities and Brcko District.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7163	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7164	76 gospođa Vulić, more questions. So, I was chairman of the Constitutional Commission in the last term when this bill was proposed and what was the explanation that a member of the Constitutional Commission of the SNSD supported this bill? The Constitutional Commission decides on the harmonisation of the draft law with the Constitution and the BiH legal system, which, of course, includes as one of the key points whether it is a transfer of competence or not. And, uh, if you can just explain to me why a member of the SNSD Constitutional Commission supported this bill? And has the Constitution in BiH changed in the meantime that I missed it, which would justify now diametrically opposing your position in the SNSD on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7165	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Miss Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7166	Thank you. Comrade Arnaut, I really don't want to deal with what happened. For what reason the colleague of Prodanović then assessed why he decided so, did you perhaps convince him, since a man listens to you, as his colleague Magazinović said, at some point you are so convincing and so well-intentioned and so generous that I know. Dr. Lazarević is otherwise known when a benevolent man, perhaps, uh, perhaps you were so reasoned that he felt that the proposal was as satisfying as it is. Here, I have the right to express my suspicion and we have the right to request the completion of this proposal. So, uh, what happened was, we live in the present.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7167	Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7168	Thank you. Well, you see, definitely what Mrs. Vulić said about Mr. Prodanović can't be a false allegation. I absolutely sign everything you said about him. However, it is a false assumption that I was trying to convince someone about this law. This is not my bill, I was not among the promoters at the time, it is one of the laws that I did not propose, Mrs Vulić, but I supported and did not participate in the debate. Mr. Magazinović did it more than well then, and as far as this SNSD member is concerned, I am now saying again, it is not only a matter of drafting the law, but also of support for the Constitutional Commission, therefore, when it comes to compliance with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. And you see, there's one positive side here, if everyone stays principled, if this passes the House of Representatives, comes to the House of Peoples, and then, I hope we can count on the voice of fellow Prodanović, because that one will be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7169	Thank you. 77 Mr. jasmin Emrić, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7170	I thank the chairman. Given that we have recently completed the discussion under this bill, respecting the proposals of our colleagues, and with the intention and desire to adopt this law in the first reading, given that a lot of effort has been made, it has been a long time, more than two years, and the Council of Ministers has had the opportunity to draw up a new draft law on amendments and amendments to the BiH Criminal Law, but since this has not been done, it is good to comply with Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law with international standards, and in this context I also propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit its opinion on the Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH, and in this way may be resolved by many dilemmas, although, here, again, my colleague Mehmedović has already said in the first discussion that, that the implementation of the consultations with the institutions and the representatives of the Republic of BiH and the institutions are in the institutions. Here, in particular, Nebojša Tomković was a consultant in front of the Republika Srpska MUP, the Anti-Terrorism Administration, and I think this is all agreed and this minimal effect of consent has been achieved over what we have been discussing all these years and that, here, has been translated into this bill that deserves to be adopted in the first reading, and, of course, second reading, the possibility of amendment action, can correct everything that is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-19-0.u7171	Thank you, Mr. Emrić. No more reports, finalising debate on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH, item 11. I'm closing today's work and continuing tomorrow morning at 9:30, once again, at 9:30. Thank you. Session interrupted at 5:40 p.m. 78
