ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4990	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, distinguished media representatives, I am opening the 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of BiH, anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present MPs, MPs and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from the session was justified by MP Mirsad Kukić, and MP Đapo announced a little delay, so she will join the session's work. At the session, 37 MPs are present right now, and I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As you are indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Mirko Šarović, Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Minister Šemsudin Mehmedović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Damir Arnaut Foreign Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, BiH Council Chairman Saša Magazinović Minister of Communications and Transport, Nermin Nikšić, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman and Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These announcements were made in accordance with Rule 168 (2) of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. Once again, I would like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Rule 167 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to distinguished representative Dragan Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4991	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have one parliamentary question which I will refer to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which reads: Mr Tegeltija, and you and the high officials of your party, from Milorad Dodik and beyond, accused us from the SDS and the PDP of supporting the ANP, because we should have put it on the agenda of the Council of Ministers' Council, knocked down ANP at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and ended this story forever if there is a Declaration of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska on Military Neutrality. Since the ANP is still, we see, alive, so just as the name has been changed, it is no longer an ANP now is a Reform Programme, but I had the opportunity while I was in the Council of Ministers to see the original ANP, this concerning the new Reform Programme, I last time shared it with the two MPs here, to say so much more concrete, clearer, more precise and demanding and in a dozen places it is mentioned that these reforms need to be implemented for the sake of the Euro-Atlantic integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I ask, since ANP is still alive in the Council of Ministers – will you put him in a meeting of the Council of Ministers and take him down as such at that session? And I'm just curious yet, can I have another question that I haven't announced, and I have it in writing here?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4992	It can't now, you have to announce, we have a order of questions. The answer to your question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4993	Mr. Chairman, members of the working presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, distinguished guests, media representatives. The ANP issue, I never commented on what the Council of Ministers should do, what to put on the agenda and what not to do, so I didn't comment on what to do with the ANP. As for the document, which is called ANP, a list of some 450 active items found in the Council of Ministers Secretariat when the Council of Ministers was elected, the document was also found. The Council of Ministers has decided that all of them, both of them, should be informed of this by the restoring ministries and document promoters and to declare themselves what they want to do with these documents. Most of the ministries, ministries, or resolution ministers, have made their decision to define what they will do with these documents, have withdrawn some of the documents from the procedure, have kept the Council of Ministers discussing them and deciding. When part of the documents, including the ANP, were not spoken, the Council of Ministers at its meeting, session 2, concluded that all cases contained in the Council of Ministers' Secretariat, which were not made known by the promoters, which were older than 01 November, 01 January 2019, will not be discussed in the meeting of the Council of Ministers. Accordingly, the ANP is no longer in the programme, does not exist as a document in the Council of Ministers and cannot be discussed and decided on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4994	Thank you. Comment on your response, Mr. Mektić. Here you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4995	You see, it is very important and it is very important that this confusion over the ANP, that is, the Reform Programme, ends in a way that all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina know only one and the complete truth. I know that in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska a falsification of the document appeared, a falsification of the document offered to MPs, which contained 21 pages, and a translation of the original document on which the signature of all three members of the Bureau was over 50 pages. So, a dissatisfaction I answered, by the commission that worked and prepared the ANP document the commission [[the speaker is warned on time]] Councils of Ministers and how it is possible that 3 ANPs were, I don't know, nine or ten times on the agenda of the previous term, and [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's not there now. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So it's just avoidance, deception and manipulation to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4996	Thank you. I give my word to honourable representative Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4997	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, fellow MPs, guests. My question is similar to that asked by Mr. Mektić, however, in a different way, but it was addressed and should be addressed to the Minister of Defence Podžić, whom I do not see here, but I see the deputy and therefore would ask this answer to come in writing, because I believe the answer to him would be given by the honourable Minister Podžić, and the question refers to the following. So, on the NATO Pact page the other day, it was announced that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the MAP programme, i.e. that the Action Plan for NATO membership has been activated and this is based on the adopted Programme for Defence Reform of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question is, does this mean that the Reform Programme has been accepted as an ANP under another name, though, which are those reforms that will be implemented by the Ministry of Defence on this issue and how much will it cost, and is it true that the BiH Defence Reform Programme accepts the obligation of the BiH Presidency to record military assets, meaning prospective military assets at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I thank you, I would like, like I said, to get a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4998	Thank you. Dear Representative Šarović is seeking and will receive a written answer to this question. We move on, I give my esteem to representative Šemsudina Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u4999	Thank you, gentlemen chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I welcome you all. My question concerns the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In the past term several years ago, in a very dramatic way, the Law on Excises of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted and since, from the law's justice to today, huge funds have been raised on this basis. Furthermore, Elektrotrans also collects certain funds and, of course, a formula for the distribution of these funds is needed. On the other hand, the Directorate for indirect taxation collects 15 to 17% more funds each year than the previous year. As a result, my question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, namely at the first meeting of the Council of Ministers with entity prime ministers according to media reports, an agreement was reached on the deblockation of significant funds. So I ask – what means are these, how are they distributed between the entity and Brcko District, and which projects are they targeted or are they just for the resolution of budget gaps? 4 The public also expected at least information when and were the unblocked funds of the BiH Elektrotrans, which would encourage the investment building of the Elektroprenos infrastructure, because in certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina the load rate reached as much as 90% and when would the construction of a large transformer station of TS 110/TS 5, because all the preparations, the preparations of the local community were done?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5000	Thank you. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5001	Mr. Chairman, members of the presidency, fellow MPs. I thank Mr. Mehmedović for asking the question and with some of the findings of your previous question he probably would not agree, but it is not important at this time, but one thing is quite certain twenty, the first meeting I held after the appointment of the Council of Ministers was with the presidents of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska. At that meeting, first of all, we defined the way we work in the future time period, all the open issues that exist between us and what our priorities are in the future. I wouldn't want to talk about... our co-operation, but I think she'll be very visible through the public. As far as issues are concerned, which are open issues, one of these outstanding issues was the functioning of the BiH Electrotransmission and the issue of the allocation of funds from the Single Account of the Direct Taxation Authority. I would remind you that at the meeting, the prime ministers agreed to come, to approve investment projects within the framework of the Electrotransmitter of BiH worth 120 million converting marks, it is about funds that can be used exclusively for investments, or for anything else. At that time, the government has defined the purpose of building new and reconstructing existing trafostations, building new and reconstructing individual power lines and reconstructions, i.e. the addition of the SCAD system. They made it very clear about the trafostations, which power lines, etc. and made a decision, and now it is up to Elektroprenos to conduct these selection procedures for the contractors. When it comes to the specific issue of the Jelah Trafostation itself, the Jelah Trafo station is part of the project of construction and reconstruction of new trafostations of 120 million, and construction will begin as soon as the selection process of performers is completed, i.e. the procedure defined by the Public Procurement Act. What is the issue of the allocation of funds from the IRS account is defined to be settled at a session of the Management Board of the ICC and I hope that in several..., some of the next sessions will be completed. As far as excise duty is concerned, nothing is dramatic, on the contrary, I think it is very good and that all who travel through Bosnia and Herzegovina can witness the unblocked process of building highways, highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, any shares that you want to look at. And secondly, there is no blockage when it comes to it, there is a clear principle of distribution of funds collected on the basis of tolls, which it has, which is clearly intended to build highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska or the Federation. I hope you'll get that process continue in the future. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5002	Thank you. I give my word to the honourable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5003	A comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5004	A comment, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5005	Thanks to the Council of Ministers for its exhaustive response, however, it is obvious that we did not get a good understanding when it comes to the funds raised under the Excise Law, because it is one thing to unblock the investment construction of highways, the other is to unblock the funds collected. The problem is that Bosnia and Herzegovina, and by doing so, entities take expensive loans and build highways, and not spend the money collected from excises, but use them as collateral for these loans, and that is actually the problem and the essence of the question I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5006	Thank you. I give my word to the honourable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5007	I thank the chairman. Thus, several media outlets in Bosnia and Herzegovina reported on January 16th this year, that Qatar's emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani decorated Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister, Dr. Biser Turković, with a special Al Wajba medal. Given the official internet presentation of the state of Qatar, it is a medal that this country assigns to almost every outgoing ambassador, and it is determined to be made of 18-carat yellow and white gold, decorated with 184 stone diamonds and sapphires, which represents the colors of the Kathar flag. With regard to the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions, it clearly states that gifts above the value of 200 marks, quotes, elected officials, executives and advisers should not be detained but must be reported and handed over to the institution of the authorities who have chosen them or appointed them and whose name they perform the entrusted public office. The foreign minister's question, and it is quite right for the deputy to answer, since the minister is not there – has the minister acted, since it is clear that something that has 184 stone diamonds and sapphires, this one, is worth more than 200 marks, has the foreign minister acted in accordance with the Law on Conflict of Interest, reported and presented the above present, in this case to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as the body he has chosen, that is, appointed? If the deputy doesn't know, enough to tell him what he knows about this issue, so he'd just ask him to let me know and that would depend on my comment. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5008	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5009	President, distinguished members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the council. In the announcement of your representative's question, you did not specify, nor further explain what it is that you are interested in, so at this point and since it is an orderly who received the personal minister I cannot give you the correct and direct answer, I can only tell you that you will be informed by written means from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the shortest time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5010	Comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5011	I thank the deputy and it is understandable that the man does not have all the information, although this is an institutional question, cannot personally receive any gift, not a gift of this kind, this is something the Foreign Ministry should have known about, the procedure should have been launched, already, given that it was 16 January should already be here in one of these windows, as people have always worked before. I, among other things, have been reporting some gifts and handing them over to this House. In any case, as regards the announcement of the Rules of Procedure, it is very clear that only the area to which the question will apply is announced, otherwise there is no purpose of oral questions if you were asked a specific question. But anyway, thanks for the very correct answer, I'm not surprised you don't have any more information, and then thank you for delivering it to me in front of the Ministry in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5012	Thank you. I give the word to the honourable representative Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5013	Dear Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues and guests. I have a question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, about the status of the border crossing in the municipality of Novi Grad. So, as I know, there is currently a border crossing in New Town, across the border crossing in New Town, a disabled transport of goods to neighbouring Republic of Croatia, or to the European Union, so I ask you to clarify what is needed, or what is possible to do in order to translate the status of that border crossing into a state that transport and goods are possible. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5014	Thank you. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5015	Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Members, for this question. What's it got to do? The answer is very simple, to reach an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to define the border crossing of Novi Grad – Dvor as an international border crossing for the transport of goods and to in some ways increase the category of border crossing in Novi Grad. Since this issue came to the cabinet yesterday, we failed to contact the institutions to get the necessary answers, but from my experience when I was doing some work on border crossings, contacts with the local community that I had during the previous time period, I would like to say that on the part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, much has been done to redeploy the border crossing in Novi Grad to the border crossing for the transport of goods. The local community has been very active on this issue and there is no institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the presidency, so, as it is called, the Integrated Border Management Commission with which the local community has not held a meeting, to meetings in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, has not come to this. Whoever failed in that communication I really can't say at this point, but the fact is that we failed to increase the category of border crossing in agreement with Croatia. Also information to you, gentlemen of Parliament, and to the public to say that the border crossing in Novi Grad, Novi Grad – Dvor was the first border crossing opened in that area, if we exclude the border crossings in Izačići and it was the only border crossing in the area for several years. Meanwhile, some other border crossings were opened, received several categories, and the border crossing in Novi Grad reduced the category from the border crossing for goods to the border crossing only for the traffic of passengers. The assessment of businessmen from the region that it is necessary to open a border crossing in Novi Grad and to transport goods from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions does not constitute any serious task, as there are both border police and customs officers, small efforts are needed to train the border crossing for the traffic of goods. What I can tell you is that through the Integrated Border Management Commission and all other channels that exist in communication with the Republic of Croatia to try to get this border crossing status of the border crossing for the traffic of goods, I personally believe that it deserves it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5016	Thank you. Does the honourable representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5017	Dear Chairman, thank you very much for your obvious guidance and desire and will to address this problem, and we really hope that, first of all, because of the businesses in the municipality of Novi Grad, but also the neighbouring municipalities to which the transport of goods to the European Union would indeed mean a significant improvement of business activities, that you will continue to intensify the communication with the Republic of Croatia and that, in some future period, you will report on, hopefully, the progress and opening of this border crossing for the transport of goods. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5018	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5019	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I ask the question of the Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: Why are driving licences from Bosnia and Herzegovina not fully recognised in the Federal Republic of Germany, i.e. at what stage is the process of extending the Declaration of Recognising and replacing driving licences for all categories and sub-categories between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany? I'll dati a brief explanation why I'm asking this question. A joint declaration between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany in the Federal Republic of Germany recognised the driving licences of categories A, A1 and B from Bosnia and Herzegovina, until categories BE, C and D were fully recognised, i.e. it is necessary to re-recognise both the theoretical examination and the practical part of the tests and first aid and all that is laid down by the regulations of the Federal Republic of Germany to lay down those categories. I know that in the earlier period an initiative was launched and a procedure to extend the Joint Declaration so that all categories and sub-categories of Bosnia and Herzegovina's driving licences would be recognised in the Federal Republic of Germany, i.e. to facilitate the copying or replacement of those driving licences in the Federal Republic of Germany, and I am interested in what stage of the procedure, until it was reached in the process, and when citizens who unfortunately left Bosnia and Herzegovina and who work in the Federal Republic of Germany can expect that driver licences of category BE, C and D will be recognised in the Federal Republic of Germany? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5020	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5021	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Kolegijum, the honourable delegates, as regards the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Germany on 10.02.2015 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany, the Declaration was signed, which is what the esteemed colleague said and was accepted and agreed on, and this was done, and that was allowed to replace the driving licences of category A, B and sub-categories A1. On our part, an initiative has been launched to supplement the Joint Declaration in a way that includes other categories, namely BE, C, CE, D and DE and also sub-categories D1, C1, C1E, D1 and D1E. On our initiative we received an answer by, this is the Federal Republic of Germany's Note of 20 February 2018 concerning the proposal to supplement the Joint Declaration, in which it stands, quote – following the appropriate verification of the submitted documentation, the existing Joint Declaration cannot be supplemented due to important high criteria for driving licence owners or buses in Germany with regard to the qualification of professional drivers, the addition of the Joint Declaration of the proposed categories of driving licences is unfortunately not possible. 9 This is not the case, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport last time in November 2019 asked the German side to reconsider this position again and to accept our proposal to open the negotiation process in order to bring the amendments and additions to the Joint Declaration and to recognise all categories of driving licences. We have not yet received an answer to this initiative, so the recognition of the remaining categories exclusively and only depends on the German side which at this time does not show willingness for the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5022	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5023	I thank the Honorable Minister. I understand the allegations that the minister has read and introduced us, but I want to share information that driving licences of all categories of the Republic of Serbia are valid in the Federal Republic of Germany. That's what they've done before, which is how, here, it's at the Ministry to collect that information and continue these talks. If the Republic of Serbia could do this for its citizens, then I see no reason and Bosnia and Herzegovina does not do so for our citizens who, by force, had to look for a job in the Federal Republic of Germany and would ask the minister to deliver an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5024	Thank you. I give my word to the honourable representative Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5025	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to look back at an area that, in my opinion, is very important. Namely, a unanimous decision by the BiH presidency of the previous term, adopted on 26 May 2016, found that both international members were practically excluded from the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As before this decision was necessary to vote at least one of the representatives of international experts, the Bureau at the same time made a decision establishing that decisions in the Commission were taken by consensus of the remaining three members, which is particularly important that the decision was valid from 30 May 2017. Therefore, given the fact that practically the Commission has already ruled out these two representatives of international members, Annex VIII of the Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which provides that the Commission consists of five members, three representatives of domestic, two international experts. So, from that moment on, the Commission is working without these members, and my question concerns – is the Council of Ministers aware? So it's just a new Council of Ministers, I remind you, based on Article 40. The Council of Ministers Act can be applied and introduced as it concerns the new composition of the BiH presidency, to introduce them to this problem. The Commission has a budget of less than a million and a half KM. We are all witnessing that every day we are practically attending the devastation and violation of national 10 monuments in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so my question is – will the Council of Ministers know about it and will what it will do to bring this Commission's business back into the legal frameworks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5026	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5027	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, members of the Labour Presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank Mr. Nikšić for this question, but I have to admit, for the first time I've heard of this. In the mass of more than 400 materials that were in front of the Council of Ministers, there were no acts that concerned that had been delivered by this Commission, so I have not been familiar with this position and this issue of the work of this Commission. I'm not sure Minister Gudeljević has that information either, if he has, we didn't share it together. What I can promise you is that we will call on the members of the Commission, together with the minister and I, to see what this is all about next week. After that, we will consult with the Bureau members and create assumptions for the work of this Commission. But if you allow an opportunity, to be honest, to not see the time, I want to say that it might be good to define and review the work of this Commission, because because of our personal experience, we have only met with decisions to declare monuments, national monuments of culture, and after that, and then set up such high criteria in certain communities for the recovery of these facilities and arrangements, and these local communities have no financial potential to complete all of this. I think there are a lot of open questions in this Commission's work, but here, we'll deal with what you asked first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5028	Thank you. Does the honourable representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5029	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the correct, honest, answer. I expect the Council of Ministers to take action and I don't have, do I, have neither the desire nor the possibility to dispute. And I can understand that it is necessary to look at all areas, but I also cannot understand that for two years we have a Commission working outside the legal framework and working three members past the Framework Agreement for Peace and making decisions as they think, having a certain budget. And, here, I hope that this, I remind you that you have and I can also deliver it to you since the distinguished colleague Magazinović in the previous term asked these questions, the views of the OHR Office which, too, considers it very important to regulate the imitation, i.e. the work and functioning of this Commission and return it to legal frameworks. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5030	Thank you. I give my word to distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5031	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, deputies, deputies, members of the Council of Ministers and others present. My question is to honor the Minister of Finance, Mr Bevanda, and for a change, I want to talk a little bit about excise duties. The question concerns the possibility of changing the fixed excise duty on fuel into variable excise. What's this about? We are witnessing that changes in the price of oil on the world market have a negative impact on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina where even the smallest rise in oil prices leads to a rise in prices within Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only oil but also other operating costs of real persons. We are also aware that when oil prices on the world market fall, it is not exactly a spot-on reaction within Bosnia and Herzegovina. The practice, therefore, is that we do not invent hot water, that in order to protect the domestic market, the stabilisation of oil prices goes down and the tools that call the variable excise that would mean approximately, when oil prices jump, the excise decreases, and vice versa, when oil prices fall, the excise is increasing which would lead to some kind of balance. I'm interested in the Honorable Ministers of your opinion, the technical possibility of whether there is a political will to discuss this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5032	Thank you. The finance minister and the vault. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5033	...with a desire for successful work. Thank the honourable representative for asking. I assume that the esteemed representative on this issue meant a proportional or ad valorem tax and, unlike most taxes, a income tax, a profit tax, a VAT, a tax charge according to the tax theory, which means that the excise duty rate is determined in monetary amounts, and the base in the units of the products to which they apply, kilograms, liters, pieces, degree of alcohol, etc. The only exception for excise duty products at which a proportional or ad valorem of excise duties are determined in percentages at the selling price are cigarettes. The reason for the application of this so-called complex excise duty rate is the protection of the domestic tobacco industry. The proportional excise duty is lower to cheaper cigarettes and higher to more expensive, while the specific excise duty is one for all brands. In the European Union, the trend is that non-cigarette countries have very high specific excise duties, and the proportional excise duty is very low, some only 1%, while proportional excise duties are held by countries that have their own production because they do not want to burden domestic production. As for excise duties on derivatives, and I think that focus, oil, minimum excise duties in the European Union are prescribed as specific, they are determined for 1,000 litres of fuel, as is the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If a respected representative under variable excise duty implies its short-term changes in such a way that they are adapted to current price oscillations on the 12 oil market, such a solution can be considered theoretically feasible, but would certainly be more beneficial to traders than to end consumers. I hope that the answer is clear enough in this short time of reception and the rest, if necessary, and extensively in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5034	Thank you. Does the honourable representative want to comment? No, I don't. Thank you. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards changes to the agenda of the session, I would like to mention the following: The agendas are deleted: Point 23. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-09-1029/18 of 23. 04. In 2018, it was removed from the agenda according to notice of the absence of the applicant. Point 35. Consideration of the Edita Đapo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative which obliges the Council of Ministers to pass a framework law on the application of international conventions and contracts," number: 01-50-1093/19 of 03. 06. In 2019, because the initiative was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure. Point 37. Consideration of the Edita Đapo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative which obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to pass a framework law on the implementation of international conventions in the field of protection of cultural and natural goods, which has been ratified by Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue: 01-50-1-1289/19 of 17. Seventy-seven. In 2019, because the initiative was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure. Point 39. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative suggesting to the competent entity institutions, i.e. the institutions of the Brcko District (government and legislative authorities) to prepare and adopt amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of slander, in such a way that different standards of acceptability, tolerance, and proof of the alleged slander against public figures are in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, No. 01-50-11490/19 of 19. Eight. 2019. It was removed from the agenda because the Joint Committee on Human Rights did not deliver an opinion. Point 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the other members of the Initiative for the preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe on the arrangements of the host country for the South East Europe's Secretariat of the Initiative for the preparedness and prevention of disasters, No: 01,02-21-1-897/19 of 26. 04. In 2019, it was downloaded at the request of the Foreign Affairs Commission. They have been completed: 13 Point 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Travel document, Proposer: Damir Arnaut, No: 01-02-1-1200/19 of 01. Seventy-seven. In 2019 (first reading) – with the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications because the Commission did not accept the principles of the bill. Point 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, No: 01-02-1-1517/19 of 30. Eight. In 2019 (first reading), with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission also did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5035	Good afternoon. Mr. Chairman, I welcome you, co-chairs, co-workers and colleagues, all present in the hall. So I have one proposal for a conclusion when it comes to adopting today’s agenda. Yesterday, as a member of the College in the extended composition, I was able to discuss a proposal for point 3, which is actually a proposal from a fellow MP, which refers to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the Law that we discussed at the previous session voted as we voted, so here we are after 15 days, but at this session this same Law is once again before us and we are asked to show ourselves in a renewed procedure. I think, uh, there are some reasons there, if you were reading material, that certain colleagues were not familiar, I don't know, but how, when they voted, which, of course, is no valid reason for such a thing, and I asked that in the already extended composition of this point be taken off the agenda, from the College, that it interprets the existence of such a point, such practice. I was told that once a provision that spoke about the fact that the same text of the law or any act could be returned to the House, the House of Representatives, was once abolished. Since that's the case, there's nothing left for me but to suggest to you today one conclusion that you've already received with what I would have added to this second item, I don't know if I should read it, but I'll read it for the record. Conclusion on the item 3rd agenda of the 4th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is called – The request of Representative Damir Arnaut to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure, the number and that, the conclusion reads : It is removed from agenda item 3 because it, with the same content, did not receive support from the Parliamentary House of BiH at the previous session, held on 23.01.2020. Here I would add, one, to the text you have in front of you – in the future, within six months I cannot teach acts in the same text and content of the House for consideration. Reason: The point is re-proposed with the same text, from the same representative by emergency procedure without valid reason for urgency, without any new solutions. Given that the Rules of Procedure did not regulate the issue of the re-proposal of the act, and this is the same solution that did not receive support at the previous session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, and for 14 reasons there are no new valid reasons why the same proposal should be considered, I propose, therefore, that conclusion. So, take point 3 off day-to-day work. I propose to the House that this conclusion, of course, be made known previously, because it is clear that it is closely related to the staying of point 3 on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5036	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5037	The Honorable Chairman. Last year, in 1706, I submitted an initiative in accordance with Article 170. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Zatupan House. Given that business conditions have been met, that working bodies, commissions have been formed, both this House and the Common House, I see no reason why this initiative of mine has yet to be found on the agenda, and since we already have a sea of some initiatives from only one or two MPs, here, perhaps to give me an explanation why my initiative is not already on the agenda today, or when will it already be included since 17.06 is submitted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5038	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5039	I thank the chairman. I think my colleague Lovrinović knows very well that the Rules of Procedure on this issue is absolutely clear and, however, he too often requires that mandatory points be removed from the agenda. Perhaps it is time for the College to explain very clearly to colleagues Lovrinović that this cannot be done. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 70(2) says – the point that has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this is the point, the request for an urgent procedure, the College considered, the Extended College considered, so the procedure passed, and indeed this is a waste of time to be exposed by fellow Lovrinović from the session to the session. So, he's asking for mandatory sessions off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5040	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinovović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5041	I thank my colleague Arnaut. 15 I am in the past term, so I will not say almost swear that I will not do anything according to the Rules of Procedure; I will only listen to what Mr. Damir Arnaut says, so that, behold, I have broken now, and will see whether I will return to that old conclusion, that I will only listen to what he says. So, I'm fine saying that yesterday at the College in the extended composition there was no question of returning the same text, in this case of the law, or any other act in the same text, the same content which at the previous session 15 days ago was and got, therefore, what it got. I can't believe this House is making a joke out of it. So, if 15 days ago the law, we voted on it, it was a proposal, it went as it went, now on the same text, with the same content, in the same procedure it comes back and Mr. Columbo purposely came up with this technique, by emergency procedure, because he knows well that then, he can't be removed from the agenda, because he's binding as a point. However, I have found a solution in Article 187 that says that what has not been governed by the Rules of Procedure can be arranged by Parliament's conclusion and it becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure, which is how it behaves until it is settled differently with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, read Article 187, the truth.. I did not mention it in this conclusion, but read it, and you will see that it is possible for Parliament to conclude, and therefore I propose the conclusion and if Parliament adopts this conclusion, then it is possible to do what I have proposed – removing the point from the agenda. Thank you very much. Because it's not acceptable, because of what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5042	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5043	I thank the chairman. Well, it's just been arranged by the Rules of Procedure that this is a mandatory point, so the Rules of Procedure cannot be changed in conclusion. This House can amend its Rules of Procedure, we had one of the recent sessions of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and that is how it is done. If you want to get back what used to be in the Rules of Procedure, and thrown out on purpose, this is what you're talking about, that there's some time when... then you can propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. As long as we're working with this Rules of Procedure, that's how it is. The point has passed the procedure, it is mandatory, and I will explain when it comes to the agenda, which is why it was really necessary to repeat this and I think I have done it enough in the media, but at the very least, if we take into account that certain colleagues have said that they voted against by mistake, that the ratio of this vote indicates that there could be a different outcome, it is absolutely justified to repeat the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5044	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5045	However, I will read this article in 187. – The home may, in conclusion, settle certain questions which are not or are not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure. So I asked at the College in an extended composition why the same text is coming back and how is it solved, how can it be? That question, therefore, is not settled, you said, it was once, now it's not. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And paragraph (3) – the conclusion is binding until 16 issues to the Rules of Procedure are settled differently. The conclusion shall apply from the date of adoption, unless otherwise provided. Therefore, the article is clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5046	Okay. Dragan Mektić, discussion. It's a debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5047	Thank you, Chairman. I have one general remark on the agenda and I have one concrete, concrete agenda proposal. That's what I'd like to say in general, then I'd like to say that I'd like to be present as a guest just for one session of the House College or of the Expert College, if that's what you call it, I don't know. If the College were, yes, I don't know how much it is, that's exactly what it is, but when I look at the agenda in general, so be careful what we're discussing here. There aren't any serious points here. I am still saying, in the last session I spoke, we are continuing and destroying the dignity of this House, the dignity of this House. So what we're receiving today to know, information, reports, etc., so let's get this done with the messages, let's take it to the knowledge, and that's it. What are we going to discuss for free about something we're getting to know? So you see that there are no serious points of daily life, so where is our rule of law, our judiciary, the corruption that destroys and destroys this society. So how can this House not put in a report by Pribe where an expert of the European Union has put a series of objections to the functioning of the judicial system in this country? So how can we not put into discussion the negative report mentioned in Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in the European Union? So how can we not put the AMP, we know that half the state is against the AMP, half the state is for the AMP, so let's see where we are, looking for those solutions? So how can we not put the issue of electoral theft and electoral fraud in this country, and we have elections coming? How can we not put in certain economic issues? So come on, release the information and the reports and the beating of the empty straw more in this House. So you know how much one of our working days cost? I counted, it costs 42 MPs a trip I don't know what, 7,000 marks of wages with various privileges, benefits and what's not done here, so it's millions of marks. So where's the new Council of Ministers, give us some urgent measures, let us try to solve some of these burning problems. There's nothing there, this is it, this is it. When you look at this, the daily reports, this is one big disaster. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And just so I'm done, I made a proposal at the last session to put the AMP on the agenda and discuss it. I gave the Service material that was copied, I see, I don't know if this College is yours, except for this information and knowledge, which we need to take into account. asked and discussed it [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here, again, I have presented the Office's proposal to put the AMP on the agenda today's session. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5048	Okay, thank you. The esteemed representative, Edita Đapo. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5049	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you, the chairman, as well as to all your colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I'm going to ask you to remove item 37 from the agenda today. This is the initiative of a few MPs belonging to the Green Club and this initiative we wanted to commit the Council of Ministers to adopt a framework law implementing international conventions in the area of the environment. The initiative has been passed by the Foreign Affairs Commission, however, on the Constitutional Legal Commission I have received some suggestions on how and how to actually correct the already existing, or amendments and additions to the already existing law we can edit this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5050	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stevandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In principle, I wanted to discuss agenda number 3 and commentary by my colleague Lovrinović and to say that of course Mr Arnaut has the legitimacy to propose the law, as Mr Mektić has and he could, by an urgent procedure, push what he is interested in. Everyone has that, let's say, open up that possibility. The other thing is the capacity to do something. Frankly, your initiative, I agree with it in principle and what you started last time, it was logical for me to do it all, and to be honest, put it in some focus and of course we need to get rid of the privilege, I agree with that, but I don't agree with marketing and in 15 days of pushing my finger back into the eye that we are now revising something, as I don't agree with other types of marketing and stories about the AMP under this point. So everyone has their marketing, I understand that, but it's a matter of capacity to say something is a question of getting along, and on colleges and, I don't know, I'd agree to talk to you about this law, tomorrow somewhere, to find some last, to say, variant, and to support it. It doesn't matter whether SDA or SNSD, we all agree in principle that there should be less privilege, it's not at all controversial, but I disagree with, in 15 days, the same text, and even when you stated in this, as it is called, your proposal, you didn't specify which MPs said they voted wrong, so they want to vote differently now. I mean, it has to be, to say, some seriousness in Parliament, it has to be, uh, not banalized like we're discussing things, we're throwing each other at a bar. Parliament must work on the agenda whatever it is, love it, not love it, the agenda is adopted. Whoever has enough skills like you can push us through the agenda, who doesn't understand the proper procedure, but speaking of this marketing, if you don't respect the conclusion that I will support from Mr. Lovrinović, who says that where it isn't regulated, at that point we reach the conclusion and regulate it. If that's six months from now, three months from now, three months from now, we'll figure it out in some new rules of procedure. Otherwise, if I don't challenge some, as I would say, excessive reaction, if we are going to be victims of this kind of marketing, I will suggest tomorrow, I don't know, or I, some law on canton secession, is not Republika Srpska, Canton, and of course, that Parliament will reject it, and in 15 days I will propose again, so I will be making myself this marketing of human rights, on the Charter of the United Nations to the rights of the peoples to self-determination, which means it is inconclusive of Parliament's work. If Parliament took something off 15 days ago, let's get people in line, let's see if we can change it and put it in a month, two, three five. Don't put us in a position to discuss things that say that we're immeasurable and that we're into marketing, not essentially. So I am in favour of reducing 18 privileges, but I am in favour of that, in order to vote it to make some meeting, capacity, coordination, so that it won't be, let me say, this marketing finger push. We're some bad guys now, and you're good, etc. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5052	Thank you. Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5053	So the correction of the false allegation regarding what Ambassador Nenad Stevandić said. Look, something that allows the Rules of Procedure to do you can say that it is unserious, that it is not right etc., then we can talk about the inconclusiveness of our Rules of Procedure. I am actually doing everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and just to remind you now, Mr. Stevandić, you are here now, to tell us in some way, in some way, don't get me wrong, you have to have some kind of lecture, and remember in the last session when SNSD 16 months did not take part in Parliament meetings when Mr. Džaferović Šefik was the chairman of this House of Representatives because they accused him of the history of war, etc., and at each session Staša Košarac, head of SNSD Club, proposed the shift of Šefik Džaferović, and they did not go out and go home, but received the salary. So how does something apply to you and it doesn't apply to us and how is it okay for you to do what you did, and this isn't right? Let's make a deal, so there's nothing to agree on, the Rules of Procedure said it was a business opportunity, everyone used it, the SNSD used it for 16 months in this Parliament and let us do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5054	Thank you. Representative Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5055	Is there a people's saying, "Bog, have I prayed to you wrongly or have you misunderstood me?" I don't mind any of your remarks, you can discuss it with Staš Košarac yourself, I don't have the need, uh, I wasn't in Parliament at the time, but you were a minister and you didn't mind when countless conclusions were adopted, reports, now it bothers you. When you were a minister like this, every other session had the same agenda. The conclusions were made, it doesn't matter if they're border crossings, some European projects, and it didn't bother you at all, that was great, because you were a minister. Now that you're not a minister, it bothers you. I ask the members of the Kolegijum to invite Mr. Mektić every time as a guest at the College. So, I'm just attending the Expansive, but I'm asking you to call Mr. Mektić, there's nothing to do in secret.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5056	Let's stick to the agenda debate, please. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5057	This is the correcting of the wrong quote. Mr. Mektić had opportunities similar to the business of Damir Arnaut, to put this in the emergency procedure and miss. Why? I don't know, it's your problems, but if you have a chance, you do. But if we should also change the Rules of Procedure so that we don't make this all a circus and do what we're doing now, instead of dealing with the agenda whatever it is and when I like it and when I don't like it, it's the scale of the situation, not that we're not fighting over anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5058	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5059	Thank you, Chairman. Article 7 is the one I call on, so I have already elaborated on why this is a very clearly mandatory item of the agenda, but Article 7(1) says very clearly – that the MP has the rights and duties established by the Constitution of BiH, by law, by decision, etc. And this Rules of Procedure. The MP has the right and the duty to attend the House session, a session of committees whose member, he participates in their work and is engaged in finding solutions and decision-making to ensure the exercise of constitutional competences of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is the College, according to Article 20, who is obliged to provide me with these rights and obligations. And what Mr. Stevandić is saying is essentially calling on this House to deny me the rights and obligations that the Rules of Procedure has given me with a simple conclusion. But as for the practical points of view, if you adopt that, because this House is already going towards derogating this Rules of Procedure, this was not the case in the previous session, this time it's really worrying. This time we hear things like it's fashion to propose laws in the legislative body. This, if you do that, if you remove this item of the agenda next to a clear provision, a series of Rules of Procedure will only lead to a situation where someone will change one sentence and then it won't be the same law, and that's not fair anymore, that's not fair. I did a fair thing, I repeated the law because some colleagues said they voted by mistake, the ratio of those colleagues and the results is, it suggests that there could be a different result and I did it fairly. And when it comes to practice, why did Mr. Lovrinović not get up and say when Vjekoslav Bevanda repeated the Excise Act four times in the same text day after day, night after night, then it was not a problem for you. Nothing has changed in the Excise Act, and now this is your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5060	Dear representative Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5061	The esteemed chairman of this allegation of mine may be part of it, and I can also confirm perhaps that Mr. Mektić may be listed when he says... what I essentially disagree with, that we have no serious materials on the agenda today. I think it's really incorrect, completely flat-rate, but in the part and if it is and if it is, I must not mention that in this 20-day review, we have mainly the materials that it has formed in the parliamentary procedure and it has referred to the last meeting of ministers. And even Mr. Mektić, and if that is the case, and if you think so, I think it was our turn today, and perhaps even in the last session, we are considering here a serious report that might have been sent to us by the Ministry of Security when it came to migration, when it came to serious challenges in the field of trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, trade, general crime, which was the responsibility of the ministry you've been leading for five years and what privileges you've used both from one and another institution at the level of joint bodies, which, at the level of BiH and the Council of Ministers, we also had the opportunity to hear in public these days. So I ask you to refrain, we will really refrain from these cheapest populist moves, but that's why we really need dialogue, and that's why we need to concentrate a little bit better on what's coming to us, and that's really considering, creating and considering in this House of Serious Documents, here, I'm saying, unfortunately, what we don't have, at least we don't have them from the domain of security. I also want the same thing. I'm reacting to a false allegation, you're referring to an A.P. that is currently missing in this country. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5062	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative Stevandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5063	I told Mr. Arnaut this remark in principle and well-intentioned, I was saying that you have legitimacy, we are just discussing what you have suggested, no one takes off the agenda, I was just saying whether you have the capacity, the capacity is at stake here. I agree with your diagnosis, I expected you to thank me, I agree that you should reduce the privileges entirely here and the wages and privileges, but I'm telling you that I might have three rows or two commas or some methodology different from you and you can't force me to vote for what you don't have the capacity for, and maybe tomorrow when I agree with your club and... maybe I do. This is about the principle of things that are well-intentioned, which are above marketing, I am trying to explain to you in the most well-meaning way without having to argue with each other again, and I don't know either, that someone, or the Sultan, can't impose the law here, nor can you. So it's a matter of legitimacy, that's fine, but the question is whether you have the capacity to go through in that form. I don't think you have, I mean vote on it, I think it should be different, I agree with the intention, but I don't agree with the way. Is that okay? And it's just as legitimate as what you're saying and it doesn't have to disrupt our mutual relations, it's our democratic right and we don't have to target each other for that, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5064	Dear Representative Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5065	Thank you, I want to look back on what the esteemed Snježana White has said. Well, that's exactly what I was saying, what you're saying, about these important topics and migration and crime and drugs and drug trafficking and human trafficking, but there's no one here except for the knowledge of receiving. That's what 21 of us were talking about, come on. So who defended the Council of Ministers that, for as long as a month and a half, they made up one piece of information about the state of migration within Bosnia and Herzegovina and about the problems, so that it could be found here. So why are we discussing the meetings of the old Council of Ministers? Well, because they don't, and we didn't get anything from the new Council of Ministers. So as far as I know in a month and a half, here's how long it's been, two months, that the Council of Ministers only met three times and discussed some loans. That's exactly what I was saying, give us questions, issues that are of vital interest to these citizens, people are poor, robbed, no job, they're getting out of this country, let's work it out. So I'm solving the 2017 information here, I'm getting the hang of it. So hang up what we did last time, cat on tail, drive. Let's take this seriously, this is an unserious agenda, this is an unserious agenda for us to meet and today we're costing I don't know 100, 200 thousand marks here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5066	Dear Representative Borenović, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5067	Thank you. I don't think there's really a need for certain interventions to be removed from the agenda in an unusual way. If the points have come to the agenda through all the procedures foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, I have a feeling that individuals from individual political parties are looking for an excuse not to reduce the severance of 35,000.00 KM. I think it's more honest, more honest at point 3 to give your position, not through some conclusion to try to get that point off the agenda and avoid some kind of likely moral responsibility. There's no need for that, let's vote and see if it stays 35,000.00 KM as planned or reduced. I am one of the parliamentarians who immediately said that I was wrong, it is human error at a session that had its own quick, dynamic agenda and I will talk about it in the record from the previous session and I said that I would vote with my colleagues to cut the severances. But listen here to a slightly hypocritical, two-faced story that we are here to reduce severance, but not now but for six months, because there is some kind of procedural error, and the Kolegijum has confirmed this agenda, the promoter has not removed the agenda point, as is the usual practice, and please let us really be, if nothing else, correct and allow that as provided for by the Rules of Procedure to discuss each item of the agenda, if there is a need and we vote in the way it is intended. Whether someone will make a mistake again or vote as consciously as they want, we'll see. But there is a congregation majority who obviously has a problem voting for one proposal that would cut severances from 35,000 converting marks to, as expected, 10. Don't look for an excuse where there is no excuse, this is a little bit, I must tell you, bitterness is also what causes all of us, and probably the people who are watching this session of Parliament. Don't vote for this conclusion, and I want to be specific, whoever supports this conclusion is against reducing the severance of 35,000.00 KM, that's perfectly clear, and that's why I'm asking you to leave it the way it was intended and to press your position for or against the lady when there's a concrete vote on whether or not the severances will be reduced.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5068	Thank you. Dear Representative Emrić, come in. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5069	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I support my colleague Arnaut's proposal that we have a agenda point today, as suggested, and I think that my colleague Borenović has very concretely explained what this is all about. Therefore, the parliamentary activities that are concrete, which are very precise, and which are moral to call marketing or fashion, I think is not acceptable, it is not serious but I would now put it into that part of jealousy for the work of one of my fellow MPs or MPs. It is an obligation for MPs to participate in every session of the House of Representatives, to be active, and among other things because of this activity, we have an extensive agenda. If it wasn't for these initiatives of the MPs, then see what that agenda would look like, except for what Col. Mektić already said, the information we receive and some changes and additions to the law. There are still no serious legal procedures and serious reforms, but here we expect the Council of Ministers will soon honor us with these reform procedures that we expect, first and foremost, for us MPs, this is not marketing, but also for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I support this request and let me say, this does not eliminate severances, but only reduces
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5070	Please, the debate is about changes and additions to the agenda. Do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5071	So let me point out...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5072	Well, you don't have to, you can't explain now that the agenda point comes along, then the proposer will explain the essence of the law. So, if you have a change or an addition to the agenda, not just you, but everyone who will come forward, very precisely.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5073	Obviously, it bothers you to explain...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5074	Don't interpret what bothers me, please ask if you have a supplement or a change.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5075	...I think I have two minutes and then in those two minutes I can say what I want and what I think I should do within...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5076	Thank you. Representative Nermin Nikšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5077	Mr. Chairman, I was just about to, maybe I could do it as an intervention, about keeping the agenda, which we haven't adopted yet. It's really, uh, it's getting degutant, populism, and here I am, a MP who didn't make a mistake the last time 23 voted, I probably won't do it today. It is legitimate and in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, so it is not forbidden to have a point, it is legitimate to propose a conclusion, everything that passes at the vote will be declared and discussed,... we are really exhausting ourselves here by proving who is bigger, I don't even know what else is real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5078	Thank you very much. We're closing the agenda debate. So, at this point, we have proposals for conclusions from the esteemed representative Lovrinović, by the esteemed MP Mektić. As for the discussion of the distinguished representative Mehmedović, I think it was settled with the secretary on the model and how the initiative will be prepared for the next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. And once again, I would like to call upon the Đapo's esteemed representative, since the proposings are Đapo, Magazinović and Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, therefore, whether we have the consent of all the proposings to withdraw from agenda item 37. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, okay. So point 37 of the agenda has been withdrawn. Now we're going to make a statement about the conclusions as they are, in order as they are suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5080	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5081	Here you are, Damir Arnaut, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5082	Chairman, you cannot put forward a proposal for a conclusion requiring the removal of the mandatory agenda item from the agenda. This point is mandatory to the current Rules of Procedure, it cannot be declared, if you want to do so change the Rules of Procedure, but it is mandatory to the current Rules of Procedure. If you put this to the vote, you violate the Rules of Procedure directly, and in practice you will lead to me changing one word, I will change the law to take effect 10 days from the day of adoption, and what did you get? But then it's an dishonest approach, because what you're doing here is a completely dishonest approach. You know very well that this is a mandatory item of the agenda, the secretary tells you that it is a mandatory item of the agenda, it has never happened like this, including four times a day, night after night repeats the Act of Excises. Therefore, if you do indeed introduce this House into a new sphere of violation, you cannot put a proposal by your colleague Lovrinović to the vote according to the current Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5083	Here, we'll ask for a consult with the secretary. [[/consultations of the College.]] Lovrinović breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5085	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been waiting to see what you're going to decide, but so we're at a debate on the agenda, it's true what a colleague of the College said in the extended composition couldn't necessarily take the point off to not offer it to the House, so why the debate on the agenda, then nothing can be taken down, nothing added if that's the case. Article 187 which I have cited is the same as that of which he is invited, and he is talking about the conclusion that a question which is not settled by the Rules of Procedure can be settled. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure did not regulate the question of returning the same text, it was not arranged. If it's not arranged we have to arrange it, I've asked for that answer, as he asks... to be the point of the agenda. Therefore, the way out of this is to draw conclusions on the matter. What counterpart Borenović said, so please have your hands or counterpart Nikšić, vote if the conclusion passes then again in six months let your colleague return the same text, according to this conclusion can bring him back even, but after six months. So I don't know what's going on here, I don't know what's the issue. So, who's going to interpret Article 187 to me who's going to interpret it, I asked the College to interpret to me why the same text is coming back. Now I've asked that, I haven't passed the mandate, so, sir, I apologize, now I've asked that – what didn't, what came back the same text, why? Someone remembered he shouldn't have voted. I had an attitude back then, I've got one today. Whoever didn't have a say in what I would do to him, this is the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not this local community so that someone has a position or has no position. I ask that we make a statement on the conclusion, as provided for in Article 187.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5086	Representative Magazinović, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5087	We are one step away from seriously covering the Rules of Procedure, and fellow Arnaut is fully in this situation right and we have a mandatory agenda point and it would not be good to introduce this practice. I appeal to my colleague Lovrinović, to you, to draw this conclusion, today we will do this as the Rules of Procedure says. And as far as I'm concerned right now, we can change the Rules of Procedure on the next to frame this situation as the potential proposer considers it, but it would not be a good idea to commit this violation, since then we will awaken creativity in all of us to treat it in different ways and make it difficult to conduct a session with leadership. Let's let my colleague Lovrinović know that we can help the College together and overcome this situation, and here at the next session, the Rules of Procedure can be changed, if you want to suggest it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5088	Okay, break 10 minutes. 25 [[PAUZA]] We'll start in a minute, two. Okay, we can start after this break. Where's Mr. Lovrinović? He'll take our word for it. Representative Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5090	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, it was a good break even though it wasn't business, because it was about the agenda and they managed to convince me, first of all, of my colleagues from the College, to pull this off, but this is a subject that really deserves attention and deserves to be solved, not that this is why Mr. Stevandić was saying, so sometimes, so I can be that too, is it, abuse of this situation and that means every session is being returned to the same law, one and the same text, and that we are talking, that we are spinning around in circles without any need. So, we're going to think about it, we're going to work on this issue being resolved, and right now I'm drawing the conclusion that we're not saying anything about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5091	Thank you very much, thank you, dear representative Lovrinović. We are going to another conclusion, which was proposed by the prominent MP Mektić, who says: I propose that today's session of the House of Representatives be placed on the agenda of the Reform Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2019 – 2020. I'd like to make a statement on this conclusion. Of the total attendance 37 – for 17, v 18, abstention 2. There is no general majority so that the conclusion did not get the necessary majority to be included in the agenda of today's session. We have already said that the honourable representative Mehmedović has again directed his initiative and will be at the next session, and the distinguished representatives Đapo, Magazinović and Marinković-Lepić-Lepic have withdrawn the agenda point, as proposing, number 37. They can therefore conclude that today’s 4th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of Representative Damir Arnaut to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-196/20 of 22.01.2020; 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in First Reading), issue: 01.02-02-1-1885/18 of 17.01.2020; 5. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (I.) (Law in First Reading), issue: 01,02-02-1-2852/18 of 17.01.2020; 26 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Police of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in First Reading), issue: 01,02-02-1-489/19 of 17 January 2020; 7. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH, Proposer: Representative Zlatan Begić (law in first reading), issue: 01-02-1-1882/19 of 17.01.2020; 8. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposers: Saša Magazinović, jasmin Emrić and Šemsudin Mehmedović) under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 132. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1955/18 of 17.01.2020; 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents, Proposer: Damir Arnaut, number: 01-02-1-1200/19 since 01.07.2019, with the opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications; 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1-1517/19 of 30.08.2019, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1694/19 of 25/09/2019 (first reading); 12. Annual report in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-28-1888/18 of 10.08.2018; 13. Annual report on agriculture, nutrition and rural development in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1469/19 of 14.08.2019; 14. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2016, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-2316/18 of 23.10.2018; 15. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2017, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2276/19 of 30.12.2019; 16. Work report and financial report by Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2018, issue: 01,02-16-1-391/19 of 20.02.2019; 17. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-683/19 of 27/03/2019; 18. Annual reports by the Central Bank of BiH for 2018, issue: 01-16-1-699/19 since 01.04.2019; 19. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2018, issue: 01,02-16-1-709/19 of 01.04.2019; 20. Report on the activities of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2018, issue: 01-50-18-922/19 of 03.05.2019; 21. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Report – a detailed analysis of the work of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, with a special emphasis on business with the Unis – the Dervent tube factory, with a proposal for measures to address the problem in the work of this agency, applicant: The Executive Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-50/17 of 17/01/20; 27 22. The Commission's report on the BiH High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Branislav's 2017 Borenović Report and the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-19-194218 and 01,02-50-18-1726/19 of 17.01.2020; 23. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 01.02-16-1-865/19 of 23.04.2019; 24. Information on the situation at the BiH Export Credit Agency, applicant: BiH Export and Credit Agency Management Board, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1649/19 since 17/09/2019; 25. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-205/20 of 22.01.2020; 26. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01.02-34-1-198/20 of 22.01.2020; 27. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-199/20 of 22.01.2020; 28. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of seven BiH Appeal Office members in Sarajevo, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-201/20 of 22.01.2020; 29. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-197/20 of 22.01.2020; 30. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to conduct the procedure of selecting three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, one from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-203/20 of 22.01.2020; 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of a representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the place of Trska Gora, the Municipality of Dvor, proposed: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01.02-34-1-204/20 of 22.01.2020; 32. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, no later than three months after the date of adoption of this initiative, to deliver to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, which extends to their close relatives, modelled by the rules, definitions and common solutions contained in the Law on the conflict of interest in the BiH authorities, the guidelines of the VSTV, the OECD, the European Union, the Council of Europe and similar international bodies," issue: 01-50-1 288/19 of 05.02.2019; 33. A review of Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly and 28 June ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), forwarding a parliamentary initiative to amend Article 43. Law on working in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 26/04, 7/05, 48/05, 60/10, 32/13 and 93/17), number: 01-50-1 846/19 of 18.04.2019; 34. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic to draft a new Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1184/19 since 26.06.2019; 35. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Justice to include within 30 days of the date of adoption of this initiative the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in such a way as to include in it a provision setting out the deadline in which an investigation into the disciplinary procedure is to be concluded, with a period of no longer than six months," issue: 01-50-1464/19 of 09.08.2019; 36. A review of Edita Đapo's parliamentary initiative, Saša Magazinović and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15), we submit a parliamentary initiative to include the criteria of 'green public procurement' as an instrument of environmental protection, which promotes environmental protection and sustainable development under the Public Procurement Act. It is also necessary for all public institutions, at all levels of government, to bring in green action plans indicating different activities and support measures for green or sustainable public procurement.”, number: 01-50-1-1609/19 of 09.09.2019; 37. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative requiring the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to prepare and submit in the procedure amendments and additions to the Law on traffic safety on the roads to BiH, which would significantly strengthen sanctions for motor vehicle drivers in the practical management of the vehicle, which determines the amount of alcohol in the blood of more than 1.5 g/kg (Article 174). (2) Law)’, number: 01-50-1-2130/19 of 11.12.2019; 38. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Animal Health and Quarantine co-operation, No: 01,02-05-2-2552/18 of 27.11.2018; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of tourism, No: 01,02-21-1-1496/19 of 20/08/2019; 40. The approval of the ratification of the Amendment to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (Amendments of Campale), number: 01,02-21-1-2224/19 since 23.12.2019. Thank you. We're crossing, therefore, to agenda number one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've reached the record. Do any of the esteemed MPs or advocates have any objections or suggestions? Dear Representative Borenović, please. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5093	Thank you, distinguished House of Representatives Chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow parliamentarians, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I have one, one comment on the record from the previous session of Parliament, which was extensive in the number of materials, the 48th item of the agenda, and we ourselves have witnessed that we were in the finale of that session when we were voting as in the 100m race with our groins very quickly and we stole one mistake. One of the conclusions I have proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure concerning the 13th and 14th agendas concerning reports on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has not been put to the vote. It is the conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House is tasked with calling within 10 days a constitutional session of the interim investigation committee of the House of Representatives whose aim is to investigate the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions with special reference to the ability of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to participate in the processes necessary on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina to membership in the European Union, established by the 2nd Emergency Session of the House, whose members are appointed in accordance with this conclusion. The orderly conclusion is delivered, it may happen, I completely understand, when we have many points of the agenda, and we saw today when we discussed the proposal of a distinguished colleague of Arnaut, it may happen that in a large number of conclusions some are not given to vote, I fully understand. That is why it is the adoption of the minutes from the previous session of Parliament and it is my obligation to act as Parliamentarian, to point out that and to see what is the solution, how to overcome this situation. Is it possible to vote later, or am I going to take the opportunity to suggest this same conclusion through some other point that is related to the situation in the judiciary? And why does it matter? Perhaps you, as chairman and as the first man currently in the College, can give an explanation – why is no temporary investigative committee of the House of Representatives established by the conclusions of the June 2019 session? As far as I know, MP clubs, at least I know when it comes to our MPs' club, have submitted their members' proposals for this temporary investigative committee. This is how we come into one situation to adopt the conclusions of the House of Representatives that we do not carry out. Here, believe me, there is a great responsibility right on your part, to the members of the College or to you as chairman who, together with the secretary, you need to explain why this Commission has not been established if it has already been adopted by Parliament and in this way we need to get out of this situation and if you can give an explanation whether it will be established in the next few days? I'm willing to conclude not to suggest again, but I will. To insist on what is the obligation of the House of Representatives when it comes to decisions we have made by majority of votes as provided for by the Rules of Procedure and when it comes to this temporary investigative committee that should [[the speaker is warned on time]] explores the situation in BiH's judicial institutions, and we are all aware of the situation in BiH's judiciary. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5094	Thank you. I don't think the conclusion last time was about any part of the agenda, which is why it wasn't put to the vote. I find it quite meaningful to suggest it again with one of the appropriate points, and it will be in the next period. I remind you that for March 11th, we have scheduled a thematic session on the situation in the judiciary where VSTV members, the chief prosecutor, the President of the Court, etc. will be invited. It will certainly be an opportunity to discuss issues like this. 30 MP Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5095	Thank you, Chairman. I was saying something at first about this pointless agenda, in my opinion, pointless agenda, so I would suggest if it was possible to...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5096	This is the third-session record.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5097	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5098	We're talking about any objections to the record from last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5099	Oh, then nothing, nothing. I thought I'd say something, but okay then.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5100	So no one's answering for a hearing anymore. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in written form were asked by MPs: Adil Osmanović one question; Mirko Šarović one question; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic 20 questions and one initiative; Predrag Kožul one question; Aida Baručija 14 questions; Nada Mladina one question and two initiatives; Damir Arnaut three questions; Saša Magazinović one question; Mira Pekić one question. Until today's session, the following answers were delivered to the distinguished MPs and MPs: to the question of Saša Magazinović, there were 14 answers; to the questions of Aida Baručija seven; to the question Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic 17 answers and to the questions of Damir Arnaut, according to what we have, according to the information we have according to the information we have from our Service. Do any of the esteemed MPs have any comment on the answers they have received? Yes, distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5102	Thank you. At the end of last year, it was solemnly declared that we were taking control of bh. Heavens. Then it happened, if you will remember, that party in that occasion that was paid 300,000 KM plus VAT. And it's kind of because, because of that haughtiness of BHANSA, the other plan went to the essence of 31 whether or not we really took over bh. Heaven, control bh. The sky as a whole. So I, apart from the need to judge the disgrace of spending so much money for the festival, asked, and what did we celebrate? From the answer to BHANSA, which is true and correct, it turns out that we didn't take control of bh. The sky as a whole. People even sent a picture of exactly what we control, what Croatia controls, what Serbia controls. In response, capital investments in infrastructure projects are planned in the future, primarily by purchasing two new and modernising existing radar in Jahorina and Sarajevo International Airport, that new flight controllers will need to be educated, so when this is over, then we will seek a new simulation in which we will try to prove that we are able to provide district flight control services and in a larger area of responsibility than this one now. So, it's celebrated taking over part, controlling part bh. The sky and that's why 300,000 marks were spent, and as the sky was taking over, so were performers at the festival, one from Bosnia and Herzegovina, one from Serbia and two from Croatia. At the time, I talked to a colleague of Mostarac and was really upset with the information that I initially thought was not right about telling him – that there was no painful shame, to spend 300,000 marks, celebrating the takeover of bh. The sky they didn't even take over? He says to me what a bridge, he says – brother, look at it this way, happiness has not taken over the whole sky, otherwise without a po’ million festivals could not be. And it's this bridge humor that I greatly appreciate, and in this case this whole story is tragic, especially when ultimately BHANSA put it all on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5103	Dear Representative Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5104	I thank the chairman. As a journalist, he pointed out to me some time last year one of his observations, which asked me to ask a whole series of parliamentary questions to all institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And mostly I get, these answers come in, and what this journalist pointed out to me is that he noticed a trend that after the adoption of my law on limiting fees for commission work, that a large number of institutions, a number of institutions, had enormously raised compensation for stimulation and that very often these incentives fees were used instead of fees for commission work that were enormous earlier. And for this reason, I have referred a question to all institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – which is the amount of 2015, so before the entry into force of my law on the reduction of severance and for stimulation and what is 2018? This, this information I received from that journalist shows that there is indeed this trend, and it is particularly evident when it comes to the Directorate for indirect taxation. So, the Directorate for indirect taxation which was an example of an institution until my law came into force, these enormous fees for commission work, there are even here some people who took huge salaries, and another 2,000, 3,000 marks because they were in the Administration, as commission fees, or compensation for the Committee's work. In 2015, the Board paid 288 marks for stimulation, and in 2018 it paid 405.131 marks. So 288 marks while they had unlimited retail fees for commission work. As soon as those commission fees were limited by my 475-mark bill per month, they raised it, I say again to 405,131 mark. So this is something, and I thank the journalist, he knows who, uh, for noticing it, that I started this, and now we're slowly getting that data. And this is something that definitely needs to be explored, and not just the media, but other organs. So, watch out, 2015, 288 marks, 2018. 405,000 marks. It's a huge difference and it's too much of a coincidence, and I say 32 other institutions, although there are very many institutions where there can't be any malfeasance, but there are also examples like this. And as far as the answer is concerned, I can only say, like Mr Magazinović, I am extremely pleased with the correct answer they gave us, and this is exactly the point of parliamentary oversight, to ask questions like this and get the right answers so that the situation can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5105	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Baruči. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5106	Thank you, Chairman. I would take the opportunity to thank all those who provided answers to my parliamentary questions. I would certainly take the opportunity to thank the Research Sector of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly who, by my order, did two research that really helped me in my work. The only thing I am not satisfied with is the answer I have received from the question of legitimacy and all decisions made over the past period by the Secretary of the Joint Service and the Secretary of the House of Representatives, as under the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 18, the mandate of the Secretary of Home and Secretary of the Joint Service cannot be longer than the mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Therefore, in the answer that I have received all the above, it relates to the period of office, i.e. the activities that can be done during the term of office. However, after the term of office, I did not get an answer. I will therefore raise a further question, or question, in order to get a more concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5107	Thank you. I don't have any more comments to comment on the answers received. Moving to agenda number three, Ad. 3. The request of Representative Damir Arnaut to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-196/20 of 22.01.2020 Pre-law with a request to consider an emergency procedure you've received. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Here you are. First come the distinguished representative of Helez, and also the representative of Damir Arnaut. Maybe it's better to reverse the order, that's what I think. We give the first word to Agent Arnaut as a proposal. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5109	I thank the chairman. So the debate is strictly about an emergency procedure. Last time I explained all these reasons, and the Rules of Procedure, it was definitely based on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure allow an emergency procedure if it is a law or an emergency, such a degree of urgency or if it is prescribed in such a simple way that it can be adopted in one reading, and definitely a law that has one operational member falls under this second criterion. And I remind you once again that in last session of the House of Dom, he adopted my proposal to discuss this proposal in an urgent manner and unanimously, and that I correctly recognized as an attempt to bring the law down immediately, not to go into the commission phase, and so it was. As for and, here I will now further explain why I have repeated the very same bill, the fact is that certain MPs after the last session realized that they voted by mistake, given the speed that the vote took place and I absolutely believe them, so this is not where I have no reason not to trust them. So it's about MPs I really trust when it comes to this sort of thing. Another, another type of MPs said they voted against it because I wasn't there. I justified my absence, and I fully understand it as a reason, but I also ask that they understand me, I justified my absence for health reasons, and I really thank my colleague Magazinović for his initiative to help not only me, but I am sure of a large number of citizens, and in any case, everything is fine now. I thank Mr Magazinović for that, but here, as regards these MPs who expressed it, my absence as a reason why they did not vote, that was the reason and for that reason, I also felt the need to repeat it, and today I will be present for that vote. So these are, when it comes to emergency procedures for reasons, and about the measure of the law itself, of course, I will discuss if the emergency procedure is approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5110	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5111	I mean, it's kind of the kind of urgency thing that I was thinking about, so I don't want to say it again, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5112	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in addition to this reason stated by fellow Arnaut, that this Law is seemingly simple, there are a number of reasons why I suggest not to consider it by an urgent procedure, but that it still has some other procedure as we could firstly determine whether this Law is constitutional. I'm also a member of the Constitutional Commission, but I wasn't in that part of the 34 session, here, I apologized, then that the sessions when this... wasn't on this one now. Well, it doesn't matter, so most of the time, it's a question of his application. When we talk about the mandate and when we're looking for this Z akon and some of the former laws that Mr Arnaut has proposed, uh, with the Constitution. So I would suggest, however, that there is no emergency procedure, and I would also take advantage of the opportunity, so as we discussed this, there is someone following us, so a President of the Local Community called me by the Travnik and said that they have an attitude, unlike us, here in Parliament. So I apologize to him if he looks at me further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5114	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Čolo, is correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5115	Well, Mr. Lovrinović said that, thanks to the chairman, I welcome all my colleagues, he said the law was on the Constitutional Commission. This Law was not once on the Constitutional Commission because last time it was submitted, it was submitted as an emergency and then it did not require a hearing on the Constitutional Commission, so that we could not plead constitutionally on the basis of this Law, nor on its compliance with the BiH legal system.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5116	Thank you. Dear Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5117	Thank you. I was only thinking about Mr. Lovrinović, but there's a need for Mrs. Čolo, too. So this law was already in the procedure of 2015. It then passed two commission stages, two readings, and was only eventually knocked down and it received a positive opinion from the Constitutional Commission, so that this constitutionality is absolutely not questionable. I would also like to remind you that, when this term of parliament is at issue last time, this House unanimously supported the request for an emergency procedure, including, if I am not mistaken, both the votes of counterpart Lovrinović and counterpart Čolo. Therefore, the constitutionality of this Law cannot be questioned in any case, only what colleagues can potentially be called upon in terms of salaries, or financial fees, is a member of the Constitution that prohibits the reduction of pension fees during the term of office, but this is a pension that is made upon retirement. Therefore, the constitutional basis of this Law is absolutely undeniable and, as I have already said, he has passed the Constitutional Commission in the previous assembly of this parlamet, and all the colleagues present at this session supported him, a request for an emergency procedure in the past, or previous session of this House. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5118	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. Now we're going to make a statement about the emergency request. Please state our request for an emergency procedure. Did someone ask it to happen again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Please repeat your statement on the emergency request. Of the total 36 – for 19, against 12, abstentions 5. So there's a general, there's no entity majority. [[/Collegiate consent.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5127	Thank you, Chairman. Therefore, the competent Commission for Transport and Communications has given a negative opinion on this proposal, so that today we will declare our opinion on the Commission's opinion, not on the Bill proposal, and therefore I call on my colleagues to vote against the Commission's opinion when this comes to the vote, i.e. to reject the Commission's opinion, and thus this law will return to the Commission again on the retrial before that Commission. What is this bill about? The essence is very simple. Those who do not pay child support cannot receive a passport from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if they already own it will be taken from them. This is modeled in the best practice Western countries. A test has been passed when it comes to freedom of movement, etc., and we also have similar solutions in other areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is, for example, if someone does not pay parking tickets, for speeding, for any other traffic violation, they cannot get a new driver's license until they settle that obligation and it is absolutely not disputed, and what is the fact is that they have tremendously increased the payment of those penalties after this rule has been introduced. People can't get a driver's license until they pay everything, and that's exactly the same principle here, with this humanitarian character here, and that's that when you don't pay child support, and the least you can do at the state level is to introduce this restriction that will immediately be removed after the person pays that obligation to the child. At the meeting of the Committee, the explanation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the representative of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was that they did not notice problems in the collection of alimony, which is absolutely incorrect and I will not attach any further importance to it because it is sufficient to hear what single parents, and deliberately potential parents, have to say about this issue. The second argument is that existing solutions are enough to result in alimony charges, which is also not true. I asked the assistant minister how many such solutions were in last year, not to torture at five years ago and that, and of course, he had absolutely no data. Therefore, if you do not have that basis for how many solutions there have been in the past year, then surely you cannot say that the existing solutions are adequate. So when this comes to a vote, I say again, there is no vote on the bill's proposal, I ask my colleagues to vote against the Commission's negative opinion in order to get this law back into commission procedure and keep it alive. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5128	Thank you very much. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1-1517/19 of 30.08.2019, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 05/09/2019. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent to consider the draft law. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. The Commission found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, but did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Legal Commission's opinion on the bill. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5130	Thank you, Chairman. Therefore, the exact same situation, the Commission's negative opinion, was that the ratio was 4:4 in that Commission. I again ask my colleagues to vote against the Commission's negative opinion, not on the law, but on the Commission's negative opinion. In short, when it comes to the essence of the Law, applications for competitions in institutions, for jobs and jobs in BiH institutions are facilitated, applicants currently waste unnecessary money and time by being forced to deliver originals or certified copies of most of their documentation. This bill simply says that a person applying to work in BiH institutions can deliver copies, and if a person passes a further procedure, all this is clearly specified in the bill's proposal. I'll remind my colleague Osmanović of the Code of Non-turning Back when someone talks, thank you. This, and if a person passes the procedure and enters a narrow selection has a State Service Agency giving her a seven-day deadline to deliver originals or certified copies. It would make it significantly easier for the candidates, significant savings would be made for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the candidate who applies to these competitions and I know, I think this is a difficult battle now, I think we now need to get along with the general majority and the ethnic majority and to me is... and we know that this entity majority means 10 in the second round. I was interested in statements, I think it was Mr. Radmanović, but I'm not sure, someone from the SNSD said the SNSD doesn't have 10 in the House of Representatives. We have seen in these severances that there is, that it is Mr. Adil Osmanović and I am aware that it will be very difficult for anything to pass, with regard to SNSD and Mr. Adil Osmanović controlling those 10 hands, but here is ours to try when it comes to the interests of the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5131	Thank you. Point 11 of the agenda, and we have, excuse me, we still have Sanja Vulić, discussion. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5132	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to say when it comes to Mr. Arnaut's proposal that we have positive examples, in Republika Srpska, here's to say specifically, in the city of Doboj, in the city of Banjaluci, the town of Trebinj, it is enough that those who apply to the competition come to the competition, they just say that they need a certificate to apply to the competition and absolutely do not pay a fee. So maybe it can be arranged at entity level so we don't pass a new law. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5133	Thank you. Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5134	So, completely co-worker Vulić is right, there are such examples in certain local communities, but these are partial solutions, this would make it easier for people to deliver. But you see it's also a world practice, you deliver a copy, 300 people can apply to one contest, if those who enter the narrow choice of ADS tell them that they have a seven-day deadline to deliver originals or certified copies, and then you put the cost of only one limited group of people who are in close selection and I really don't see, at the end of the day, we already have the State Service Act, we don't introduce a new law, there's no transfer of jurisdiction, so we're just facilitating the procedure that already exists and that's very detailedly defined, we're just adding this sentence. I don't really understand why someone wouldn't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5135	Thank you. It's point 11, Ad. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1694/19 of 25/09/2019 (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered Opinion 01.10.2009, the House College appointed the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs as competent to consider the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion and found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. The Foreign Trade and Customs Commission delivered its opinion, the Commission supported the principles of the draft law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. We don't have any reports. 40 Let's move forward, before we move to agenda item 12, I suggest that a joint discussion on points 12 and 13 be given in view of the reports in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I invite you to come forward with a proposal to bring together a debate on points 12 and 13. Of the total attendance 34 – for 30, against nothing, abstention 4. We have a general and entity majority. So we adopted a proposal to bring together debates on points 12 and 13. It's period 12, Ad. 12. Annual report in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, applicant: BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, No: 01,02-28-1888/18 of 10.08.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5139	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I wanted to last time what I answered, um, something to say, so the truth wasn't a good agenda, so now let me take a chance, so let me say, since this agenda is like this again, I say, I say, personally, pointlessly, we debate, we receive knowledge, etc. Some things. Please unite you, what's to know, what's on your mind, to finish this in 15 minutes, to spend our resources here, electricity, heating, there's nothing we don't do, etc. The fact that it is knowledge, let’s accept it’s now 2017 report, that’s, that’s pointless to discuss. So if it's like this in this... this way it's going to continue to have a good proposal and I'm going to suggest that we discuss here, I don't know, the influence of moisture on the cabinet is something like that, so since the ball is a masquerade. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5140	Okay, thank you. You see, we've listened to you, we've united the dots. emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5141	I thank the chairman. And my colleague Mektić is right to say that it is not appropriate in 2020 to discuss the Annual Report in the field of agriculture for 2017, and even for 2018, the past was 2019, so we will discuss it in 2020. However, I understand that this is a form for the sake of, that formally these reports should be found on the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, but regardless of the form, I have tried to read the reports, above all to get more information from the Bosnian authorities regarding the development of agriculture, according to rural development. All policies of political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina support the development of agriculture and rural development more declaratively, but through these statistics that come from entity levels we see that there is still one part of the financial resources allocated to the development of agriculture and rural development, to promote agricultural production and from these data we can also see that these funds are still insufficient, and that an increase in the budget of all levels of the authorities for the development of agriculture and rural development should continue to be advocated. We are facing the phenomenon that a large number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina and they are doing their jobs in the Western European countries. Many of our citizens have dealt with agriculture, lived in the country, precisely because they did not feel the proper attitude of the government towards their status they have largely closed their holdings, parked the machinery, packed a bag and went to Slovenia, Austria, Germany, probably with the intention of not coming back to retirement. If we had previously recognised the need for rural development, the need for investment in rural infrastructure, I suppose a large number of our citizens would have stayed in the country. However, what is the trend now? It is now a trend that, under quotes, larger farmers face an existing very difficult market situation to think about closing their farms, reducing their agricultural holdings and even thinking about leaving. How are we gonna warn that? Well, we certainly won't do it the way we've done it so far, and I'm going to focus now on the state level of government that didn't do what was supposed to do and what was its obligation, in any case, to address all those who have been in power all these years on the state level. It's a question of setting up IPARD operational structures. I've already been a little embarrassed to say this in this distinguished House, because I've been asking questions before and asking for information, I've suggested conclusions to approach these views, to finally establish this paying agency, to enable our farmers to access IPARD funds, which are intended to them, precisely farmers, to train their holdings and infrastructure to be competitive on the European market. We are going to the European Union, but our agricultural producers, our farmers, are not prepared for that market. For ten years, it has failed to agree that we have one paying agency, i.e. the entire establishment of IPARD operational structs. Well, I don't, I really don't understand what that's all about. For ten years, our agricultural producers have been unable to access, under quotes, 30m euros per year, they can't even today, they won't be able to do it tomorrow. So this problem, which I don't see as a problem, is actually this need to talk about, to finally show that here we are at the state level, have compassion for the needs of the agriculture sector, the needs of agricultural producers and farmers. This way we showed nothing, that 42 are interested, that we want to help them. I have not received so far information on what is the problem, as close as it has come to reaching this agreement between the entities and whether it is possible to reach that agreement. Although I have earlier suggested conclusions, it is up to this distinguished House of Ministers to call a meeting, to inform us, of course, we did not get that information. But here I will again propose a conclusion, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in line with the stressed need to include a high political level in the annual reports on agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017 and 2018, asks the BiH Council of Ministers to organise a meeting with the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 30 days with the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Brcko District, the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance of the Entity and the Brcko District in order to agree and final establishment of the IPARD operational structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I said that these reports are of a formal nature, and that they are not given any particular attention, but I would draw attention to those who prepare these reports to be more responsible when reporting this distinguished House. Here is the report for 2017 on page 43 – Management of the IPARD structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is exactly the same text with the 2018 Report on page 47, so that I do not comment on it in detail, the same chapter – the establishment of the IPARD structure in BiH. So it can't be all the same, so don't expect us to notice this, be responsible in the future and update these texts, and don't just copy. Here is a suggestion, although I say, this is a very serious thing and the establishment of an IPARD operating structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very important for joining EU funds, pre-accession funds for the development of agriculture and rural development. Given the time already at the end, I will not explain in detail the need for yet another conclusion that I will propose, but given the current situation and the inability to use IPARD operating structures with prices that this conclusion is very important and that it should be something that encourages the development of agricultural production and gives security to farmers to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that here we are supporting them and sending positive signals to strengthen them and that future their status and their preparation for a very demanding European market will be in line with the needs. The conclusion would be: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to investigate, analyse and propose a model for the establishment of a fund for the development of agriculture and rural development at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or another form of support and financial assistance to farmers and agricultural producers in order to provide grants for access and use of European funds intended for the development of agriculture and rural development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me just say briefly, farmers, farmers, if they want to use some of the funds, they must have a whole, a 100% amount of financial resources to implement such a project. So they must be ready to finance the whole project on their own, farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina are unable to help them, because after the whole project is completed, only then do they get the 50% grant from EU funds. So this is one of the models to help our farmers access EU funds. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5142	Well done, exactly 10 minutes. Information, we're gonna have a break from half two to half three, so the MPs and the MPs know it. Dear Representative Miljanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5143	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues. I would just join this discussion and say that we really need to take care of these funds that stand out for the development of agriculture and rural parts of the population and their incentives, their production, because if we have information that 17,500 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have left Bosnia and Herzegovina and sought their salvation in some other countries precisely because of unemployment, and most of them have left and this basic job in agriculture, then I really think we all have to worry about this data. We have a series of objections to this Report, and one of them would be in Chapter 4 – Support for Agriculture and Rural Development in BiH, where on the side of the 41st total separations for agriculture and rural development in BiH indicated that Republika Srpska, on the 24th side of the special table, singled out 35,745.00 KM, however, that exposure is not correct and that amount is 59,990.998.00 KM. Also, on page 27 of the first sentence, it is said that the agricultural budget sets out the means for measures based on the output and that there is no such type of support in EU countries. Our comment is that this finding is not correct, because EU countries for strategically important products also set out support on the basis of the output, i.e. kilograms or liters of the manufactured product, and the example of this is the productively linked payments in neighbouring Croatia. Also in Chapter 6, where the implementation of measures and priorities in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development for 2017 does not specify the Food Act, which was adopted in 2017 in "The Official Messenger of Republika Srpska" No. 19/17. And our comment is to ask the question – was leaving out of the said Report of the Law on the Food of Republika Srpska and adopted, which, in accordance with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of Republika Srpska, was done on purpose to show the area as the exclusive jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Nor, with, means the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina level. On page 44, the draft action document for the use of EU pre-accession funds from the IPA II package is said to be completed and addressed to the European Commission for adoption. Our comment is on the overall development of the Sector Plane Paper and Action Document, which defines priorities that will be financed on the pre-accession IPA II package, co-ordinated by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the BiH Directorate for European Integration, in addition to 2018, it should be stressed that it was implemented without the participation of representatives of Republika Srpska. Despite the insistence of Republika Srpska's representatives in the Working Group on the construction of the Sector Plane Paper and the Action Document that the whole process is taking place in line with the agreed Decision on the system of coordination of the European integration process in BiH, the proposal of members of the Republika Srpska Working Group was ignored, which is why they did not participate in the further process of drawing up these documents. The BiH Foreign Trade Ministry and the BiH Directorate for European Integration, with the participation of representatives from the Federation and Brcko District, ended the process without representatives of Republika Srpska. 44 In particular, they would refer to Chapter 7 — Protection of plant health, veterinary and food safety. There is a law left out here where there is no, which regulates the area of food safety, and I think it is a very important item, because the safety of our food is certainly at stake, and I am particularly speaking from the aspect of our population's health. And once again, she would appeal to all of us to support these funds for agriculture and rural development.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5144	Thank you. Barucia's representative, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5145	Thank you, Chairman. I would propose a conclusion by which the House of Representatives owes the Council of Ministers and competent institutions to draft rules on ensuring the minimum guaranteed price of the safe purchase for agricultural products, especially those which are primarily exported from Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus farmers could plan their investments, investments and be protected from the negative impact of individual buyers. As an example, it would cite raspberries, which because of the lack of protection and the absence of this type of insurance, have fallen quite a bit as a chance for the development of many people in the country, who lived right off this product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5146	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5147	Just these ten minutes to the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5148	I hope there's some conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5149	Comrade Emrić, I will only look back on the proposal of your conclusion, the first meeting of Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, so here I may be ready to support him if you are to attend that meeting by ministers from the order of the county governments, since the powers are shared in the Federation, so the constitutional competences of the county are also in agriculture exceptional and large, so in order perhaps greater than the Federation, but therefore if you accept it, perhaps I will support your conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5150	Dear Representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, please. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5151	The Honorable Chairman, on behalf of the SNSD Club, we just want to express our dissatisfaction with how these reports on the state of agriculture of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2017 and 2018, because in their content they do not first reflect in many segments the actual situation in that area, but what is more important to us does not reflect the approach that can bring us all together into a better position when it comes to agriculture, food safety and all these reports treat. We are fully, on track and what Mr. Lovrinović was saying, we need to stick especially in these segments of agriculture and food constitutional jurisdiction and only in collaboration with the entity ministries of agriculture to seek solutions and implement, which may be more important to implement, and then properly and properly report afterwards. So both reports contain many facts that are not entirely, let's say, correct, it's a period behind us, but we really hope that the new ministry will establish a different kind of co-operation, again I say, that we would see progress from these areas and not realize some facts that, let me say, they are not acceptable to us in total. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5152	Thank you very much. We don't have any more reports, so here we go. We're gonna try to get through another meal, two points, then we're gonna take a break. Before moving to item 14 of the agenda, I propose that we bring together the debate on points 14 and 15, given that it is reports on the transparent state of the financial operations of political parties. So I invite you to make a statement on the proposal to bring together the debate on points 14 and 15. Thank you. Of the total attendance 36 – for 33, versus 1, abstention 2. We have a general and entity majority. So we have united the debate on points 14 and 15. Ad. 14. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2016, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-2316/18 of 23.10.2018 As responsible for that Report, the Commission has designated the Commission for Finance and Budget, the Commission has delivered Opinion, the Report has accepted and asked for further parliamentary procedure. Ad. 15. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2017, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2276/19 of 30.12.2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5155	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome all present. I must say that although I agree with Mr Mactic that some reports have been declassified if we consider them for 2017 and 2018, I think these two reports may be for discussion and may serve to reach some conclusions, given that the situation in the case of funding political parties and the transparency of funding of political parties has not changed until today, which is evident from the Report made by a group of NGOs, and above all by the Coalition "Under the Light" which was presented here in Parliament and unfortunately the presentation of this Report was attended by only a few MPs from this House of Representatives. It is the unification of these two reports that enables us to compare certain data at the same time, that I will show here some data in terms, so first I will realize, of course, that most of the political parties in BiH are financed from the budget, that percentage increased in 2017, meaning from 71 in 2016 to 83 in 2017. Ten parties are constantly spinning which are, therefore, the biggest consumers of budget funds on this basis. In 2016, the audit was processed by 124 parties, in 2017 121 and it is evident, therefore, that the provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties are continuously violated. Thus, in 2016 nine parties had no infringement and it is positive that in 2017 the number increased to 15 parties, however, some minor violations remained which, whose number even increased in 2017 from 63 to 75. In the case of infringement of the provisions, the basis for liability and sanctions, the provisions which produce liability and sanctions have violated 40 parties in 2016 and 31 in 2017 and are also initiating proceedings in 2016 against 52 and in 2017 against 45 parties. What is actually worrying and what remains exactly the same when it comes to funding political parties and transparency in financing political parties is the fact that both reports have found that the recommendations of GRECO are not included in the Law on the financing of political parties and that one and the same finding makes three recommendations of GRECO, of the nine that are recommended, are not implemented at all, five that are partially realised and only one is realised in a satisfactory manner. I would just remind myself that huge funds are spent on funding political parties from the budget and that these are indeed figures in which BiH is ahead again, as about 10m euros are allocated annually to finance political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For example, in Slovenia it is 5.4 million, in Croatia 6.6 million in Serbia 8.5 million, so in all the countries counted, less money is allocated from the budget than in BiH, although all of them have either a higher standard or a higher population than it is in BiH. Also, what is significant and what I think should be mentioned is that existing sanctions in matters of infringement of the provisions of this Act do not produce certain effects, given that the meanings of violations are repeated and are meant from year to year and are initiated by proceedings against, therefore, the responsible persons in the parties that violate the provisions of this Act. With us, therefore, the fine is a maximum of 5 000 euros, and 26, for example, of the 27 EU member states, imposes fines of 20,000 euros and also prescribe the suspension of funding from the budget if irregularities are identified in the financing of the political party. What I would suggest on this 47th occasion, because all reports suggest that the exact same situation in this area is being maintained and that the existing legislation is not in line, therefore, with the recommendations of GRECO, with recommendations from NGOs dealing with this area, and that it was also established on a workshop organised by the Central Election Commission last week with the presence of experts from this area, which unfortunately was not attended again by any representative from this House of Representatives, and it was also found that, for example, from 2014 to 2018, it was spent on the letter and number 281,916,798.00 KM. What I would suggest on this occasion is the conclusion: That, therefore, we propose to form an interresor working group whose task will be to work on amending the Law on the financing of political parties in which the framework will be incorporated with the recommendations of GRECO, the recommendation of the Coalition "Below Lump", while respecting the principles of rational spending of budgetary resources. We also propose that the composition of the working group should include representatives of the civil sector dealing with this issue, primarily representatives of Transparency International and the Coalition "Under the Ball". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5156	Thank you. Okay, well, as agreed by the 13:30 to 2:30 break, if that's okay with you all. Okay, I'll see you. [[PAUZA]] Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue to work. Agenda item 16, Ad. 16. Work report and financial report by Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2018, issue: 01,02-16-1-391/19 of 20.02.2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5160	Dear MPs, I'd like to welcome you. Although it's the '18 report. I would like to say a few words. I am aware in the coming period that there is likely to be a change in the Law on Public Procurement, I believe that there will be and I think that the mandate has expired, and I do believe that the election of new members of the Commission, but especially when it comes to municipalities that have 144 municipalities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is huge means that everything must be done to the Public Procurement Act, and especially this Commission that has been formed, whether it has been in Sarajevo over 800,000, or whether it has been in Banja Luka or in Mostar, it is necessary to do everything and there must be moral people to help to spend these funds transparently, but also, that there are not so long waiting around complaints. We're eight years last year, a tender that's tied to a spatial plan, last year we just signed, after eight years. We should therefore realise that the funds that are in the budgets, particularly cities and municipalities, however, the government at the level of canton, county, entity, Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions still have certain shortened procedures, making it easier. They bring in the sessions, whether the government, whether... and we as cities and municipalities don't have that kind of opportunity. So, I want to believe in the next period, that when it comes to the Law on Public Procurement that there will be changes, not as some in the NGO sector say, that everything is being stolen and everyone who works to steal, then we will not come to a solution. For those people who want to have investors, as well as those who order a job to get a really transparent and public contractor who will do those jobs in time. I know, I've had practice for so long working that the contractors were bringing me even though we were complaining, making solutions, and we haven't got it yet. I understand that probably those stronger investors know how these verdicts will be, etc., but I am asking you again that in the coming period here, in the BiH Parliament, we must work to get a good law. Also, what has been asked here and what is required, because now the chairman has read, I have no objection and I believe 49 needs to be able to enable work, but morality and humanity in the Commission people who do not want it to, regardless of the resources they have, regardless of the number of people, means they have to be people who will help us and allow the issue of appeal to be resolved as soon as possible and the sooner the contractor comes and starts working, because this year, if it does not work, it is for him for a year for two to start working, we have a new budget and new financial resources. Here, I've had so much and I want to engage actively in the next period, and when it comes, and if it does, and I believe that there will be a change of the Public Procurement Act, and I'll also try, let's see and find the possibility of really choosing the best people who will really do it transparently and publicly and morally in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5161	Thank you. Representative Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5162	Thank you very much. As counterpart Petrović said, it is difficult to consider this report isolated without reference to the Public Procurement Act. Generally known things are that the Board of Appeal deals with all cases worth more than 800,000 marks, that up to 800,000 marks are considered offices in Banja Luka and Mostar. Afterwards, I will speak as a doctor, and firstly I would say that if there is something that has stalled development in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it is a canton, the Federation of BiH or Republika Srpska, it is that synergy or that, let's say, the embrace of the Public Procurement Act and the Office to consider complaints. To be completely open, we all know that all the big contracts and tenders will never pass, perhaps the one that's most favourable, but the one that has a pass in the office for reviewing complaints will pass. It's what made a whole company of people who made this a business. It's a business at the expense of development and it's just denying the purpose of saying, to achieve some anti-corruption effect. A multi-corruption effect has been achieved. A huge number of buildings, hospitals, road infrastructure facilities, railway infrastructure was delayed for a year, two or as counterpart Obren Petrović said, eight, because perhaps some people do not understand that it works on the system that you have to provide a pass-by at the Office to consider complaints. It is a cruel truth and we often pretend that it is not, but it is much worse than any other bribe in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't want to accuse anyone in particular, if I had data that isn't, I get a lot of e-mails and data, etc., but I don't see it, to say, in them, that meat that would interest someone in the prosecution, but it's a public secret that this system of passing through the Board of Appeals is being considered by people who are outside the institutional framework, who are with someone good or understood in legal finess. And as you know, and various other affairs that were related to, how to... were mainly upgraded and rules and spin because this office is a brake of development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I could indicate one dozen, fifteen purchases of cytostatics or fast response drugs for strokes that could not be obtained and where no urgency could be respected, which directly reflected people's health because these offices were placed as deities above needs or, let me say, real needs. I think we've put this even worse in the nomenclature than Švajcarska, and we're the worst Balkan bar ever. And when we look here at page three, the big title – results achieved in 2018 compared to programming activities, we better not brag about any results. And now that you've all been diagnosed, you know that what I've been saying is a cruel truth, that as serious people in 50 Parliament, we're going to come up with activities that are going to change the law on public procurement and the way this office works from the ground up. Falling into undeveloped countries, creating small sultan organizations that are above all institutions, and calling for a law that blocks development, where projects wait for two, three, five, eight years, where the degree of urgency for patients is nothing, as I would say, a condition to resolve something quickly, is resolved by agreement, as an agreed economy at that old time. Now, that would be what I want to put as a big problem, and I'm going to beg that this isn't something I said, so it's forgotten. This is our serious job that enables development, and the collaterals of development are very large, both in the prevention of youth leaving, and in the operation, and in the efficiency of the economy. So believe the Law on Public Procurement and the Office of Appeals are a braker of development, making the economy inefficient, employment is also much less due to all of this, the total volume and number, to say the paid VAT is also..., it is simply amazing that there is such an institution in any country, so precisely in the horn of Africa, which is without Parliament, Council of Ministers, etc. I mean, if we were to treat it so unseriously, then we deserved to be late and projects and drugs and that... and we didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5163	Dear Representative Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5164	Companions and colleagues, distinguished guests. Good afternoon, all of you. Likewise to the members of the Council of Ministers wherever they may be. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and Budgets which discussed this Report, I will present the conclusion adopted by the Commission as the conclusion of the Committee, therefore, not this House. We therefore propose that this report of the Board of Appeal continue to be adopted in the conclusion that we propose to the Council of Ministers to provide additional resources for the filling of posts in the complaint offices in this current 2020 in accordance with the Internal Design Regulation of the Office and taking into account the scope of the work in individual offices and branches of the Office for the Review of Appeals. And an additional conclusion, in order to ensure, the real space needed, the archive space of the Sarajevo Office for Discussing Appeals. When we speak, when we are, I will try to formulate this perhaps conclusion, in fact explain part of the formulation in this Conclusion on the finding that employment takes care of the size of business in certain offices to consider complaints. You will see from Table 1 of this Report that 3,652 items were received in 2018. Of which 1,790 in Mostar, 968 in Banja Luka and 804 in Sarajevo Office headquarters. So, the Mostar Office has received more than 50% of the complaints, and that, I would say logically, stems from the Law, because as already said here, the Office, headquarters of the Sarajevo Office, is considering all complaints that are order, size, visibility of over 800,000 marks, and the Banja Luka branch is considering received complaints under 800,000 marks, which concern Republika Srpska, while branches in Mostar receive complaints under 800,000 marks, which concern the Federation of BiH. Because of the gauges of our entities, it is clear that this ratio of numbers in the received complaints will constantly appear and constantly appear. On the other hand, when you see Table 6 which speaks of the number of employees in offices and the number of systematicized working targets, you will see that in the Sarajevo Office 13 plus one trainee, 14 employees, were employed in the Banja Luka department six plus one, seven. The Mostar department employs seven plus one eight fully employed, and in Sarajevo 13, plus one trainee, plus four more in some sector, so a total of 18, a total of 33, 60% of full-time compared to the systematiced number of jobs. It is clear from this that there is a imbalance between work and the filling of individual offices. The Mostar office has over 50% of the cases, and 27% of the employees, or eight in the Office in 51 Banja Luka for double, for significantly fewer cases, seven employees. So, what I want to insist on here, which we insisted on at the Committee, not just with the Council of Ministers, to provide additional resources, and I will further insist at the Office for Consideration of Appeals that when filling jobs, it is currently taking care of the scale of work in certain offices. We can systematically solve this problem in three ways, two of which means changing the law. So, to eventually make an asymmetric solution, so as far as the Federation is concerned, that level of 800,000 is less, in order to balance the number of complaints, which I don't think is a good solution. Another possible solution is that we don't take care of entity boundaries in the branch, we care about the size of business. It seems to me that we are entering some kind of political implications here and that it is working on a solution that is difficult to change at the level of the law. So this remains a simple solution, to take care of gender in individual branches through the filling of jobs. I especially urge people from the Office of Appeals not to ask that, possibly in filling jobs in 2020 and in the coming years, they take care because the Regulation also allows for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5165	zastupnica Vulić. Here you go. Before that, Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5166	Thank you, Chairman. I have no intention of defending anything in particular the Office of Appeals, or the Office of Appeals, or of putting myself on their side, but I know that there are many and objective and subjective problems here. If the brake of many things were a braker, but beware, one is necessary, to say so, a very strict control of the transparency and legality of the conduct of these procedures and be careful, I would not agree with Mr. Stevandić, if you have a passage to the Office of Appeal, that you have solved the issue of tender and all that is whether you have the right to initiate administrative proceedings at the Court of Justice of BiH, and I, as far as I can tell, very little is falling solutions to the Office of Appeals in the administrative procedure. So, let's say, they make pretty good, correct, legally valid decisions, but what my colleague Kožul said, probably for these reasons, objective reasons, 60% fill-up, serious, complex problems, complicated etc. And then that's where I get the biggest problem of that brake. But the problem is there's the Public Procurement Act, but I'd say it's also about Here's just one sentence and I'll finish, and for this discussion of my colleague Stevandić. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Is it good, say, that the government of Republika Srpska buys one helicopter of 12 million marks, and that it buys one plane of 19 million marks without any tender, by direct contract? So you tell me now how much corruption is possible? Choose One Vendor Sit down with him and arrange whatever you want and whatever you want. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And there's the biggest corruption, and there's the biggest problem that's avoiding the public procurement system, and big and big projects are looking for the possibility of direct communication. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5167	Thank you. Mr. Mektić, I think it's more rational that you don't report for a misquote correction so you can speak for longer than expected time, than answer for a discussion and you have 52 10 minutes and then say anything you want. So, from now on, answer for the discussion, don't let us have to interrupt you all the time and take more time than planned. Representative Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegations. Well, more logically, I get 10 minutes to talk than I have to keep warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5168	What Col. Mektić said was the result of what I was saying. The helicopter that was converted, Bell's helicopter, which had something about 160 transports of patients, has been malfunctioned many times and should have waited eight years for the Commission to return it three times or for a new helicopter that had 74 evacuations in the first year, I don't know how many of these, 74, that's a completely wrong measure. The complaint office has caused many of these procedures that go through a direct contract, it wasn't if there were 30,000 marks or 10 million, because it just froze everything, and I'm especially saying this from a medical point of view where, I don't want to create any panic, but what's in medicine, I'm not just thinking about my institution, the Clinical Center, what this office has stiffed, and what has made people do with various auctions or direct agreements or breaking up a tender with cytostatics and waiting, so it can't be described at all. I'm telling you that she's the cause of all of this, and there's no such thing as you didn't specify which one was objective and subjective to justify them. This, buying direct contracts is a consequence, because if anything lasts eight years, so no one's crazy about eight years. You don't have a cure, so you're gonna wait eight years for this procedure? So what's all the doctors who got that drug gonna be criminals? So we used to steal, steal, borrow medicines from Serbia, some, for first-hour strokes that were given and hidden in the departments because the office for reviewing complaints is playing with someone's lives. It's objective stuff, I'm not saying it to make someone, I didn't say any name, but it's a brake development, it's a brake. which is not good. [[the speaker is warned on time]] You took my colleague and you Zvizdić for a few seconds, so I can finish it nicely. So, this isn't the goal of me having some fights or targeting someone, I'm telling you that it contests development, reduces the number of jobs, reduces the efficiency of the economy, endangers people's lives, and that the Law on Public Procurement and the Office of Appeals, we need to make everything here live and correct. You may have some suggestions that will be good. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5169	Are we going to fix the wrong one or the discussion? Mektić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5170	There'll be a discussion later. Well, you see, Mr. Stevandić, I understand very well what you're saying and when it comes to medications, etc., but as you now want to justify one fact that one plane of 19 million, so it's not a cure for strokes, and I'm not talking about how to use that plane, who uses it, and what are all the white world destinations, primarily tourist destinations. But you're saying, and one false thing you said, I don't, not the truth, but I want to deny you, it's not true that there's a cause of trouble and corruption because you have the opportunity to say so, a three-stage review of decisions, come to the BiH Court and confirm the decision of the Office for Appeals, then it's not a problem for you to get that medicine, but rather because you didn't do it transparently and legally. 53 And the other thing, and that's what I'm trying to tell you, but you don't have to support changing things in the law, so let's say what's the logic of you getting a 19 million-dollar plane with a direct contract, and that's not the case with corruption and crime?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5171	zastupnica Miljanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5172	I really need to take this. A helicopter is in this case an emergency, sometimes more urgent than a cure, transport. And I don't think his presence and his procurement can wait for this many commissions and this kind of procedure. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5173	zastupnica Vulić, discussion. I'm sorry, Dragan Mektić, the correction of the wrong quote. Third, he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5174	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5175	It can't, for the third time, you can't do it three times. Sanja Vulić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5176	Thank you, Chairman. I really respect Mr. Kožul, but I cannot agree with his position that we should support this report when it comes to the Board of Appeals. Unfortunately, we constantly face the problem of having a great shortage of cytostatics and a large number of unfortunately ill children. We in Republika Srpska have sort of solved it because we have formed a Solidarity Fund for the sick children and thus we are conditionally concerned about the youngest population and we are going to meet, we are helping the parents who have found themselves in such an unembarkable situation. But you also have, here, a lot of doctors, a lot of young people who die because there aren't enough stents, I think that people who are 50 years old still belong to a pretty young generation and population, people die because they don't have stents. Why? Because someone in the Board of Appeals, and if you force the Director of the Clinical Centre or any other medical institution to obtain it in addition to the Public Procurement Act, you direct a person to jail and to be responsible. So, while in the Board of Appeals there they are outwitting which pharmaceutical representative or pharmaceutical house will, conditionally speaking and jargonically, oil the members of the Commission, we are in a position to have our people die. That's extremely incorrect. You can't get nails and drugs on the same arches. It's impossible and unacceptable. As long as we don't get a new law, and if we get a new law, and here, if we all do our best, I sincerely and heartily appeal to those members who work there in the Board of Appeals, to make sure when it comes to the purchase of medicines and medical supplies, because money is no good if we lose our lives that way. Also, in front of the Club, I will propose a conclusion, and we will send it to you in writing: 54 The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Office to discuss complaints that it provides a detailed review, description and analysis of the jobs and work tasks covered by the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation, and an analysis of the effect of new employment of workers who are founded in the period from 2017 to 2020, on the number of pending cases. Of course, I will provide you with this conclusion and initiative in writing, and I would love it if we were to stick to the agenda because I have not seen any helicopters or purchases carried out by the Government of Republika Srpska anywhere in this report. I'm going to ask you as chairman, you have a mistake here that Mr. Emrić delivered. It writes – the president, in female, the Government of Republika Srpska, it is true, our long-time wife was Prime Minister, but today it is Mr. Višković, so please correct that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5177	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić. Shall we shorten the discussion for three minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5178	I will. You see, I told you about the Board of Appeals, I have no intention of protecting them, there's a lot of trouble, I said and I talked about it, and I'm also going to fix it, first of all, with the Public Procurement Act if I can. Here's what he was talking about at the end, and Mr. Stevandić, the drugs, this, over there, and that's to say that it's the most important human life for us, and that's the most sacred and the most important thing for us, but I'm fraternized by the fact that I'm being fraternized by the fact that I'm becoming an MP here from the SNSD and he says -- that helicopter was an emergency thing. Well, even though it was an emergency, it has to be re-procured, so you can get whatever you want, you can say it's urgent. Well, pals, you need to know that for every year you get a public procurement plan, you have to, you have to, you have to, and you plan through public procurement for 2385 that you're gonna get something, and it's not, you don't plan it in public procurement for that year, and then all of a sudden you tell us the helicopter is urgent. But I'm fraternized because in a tender that goes directly with a $19 million contract, you can steal half of it, it's a four-eyed job. And, look, it's a plane that, you can't say for medical purposes evac, etc., can't land a helicopter in Prnjavor and pick up a medic, where will they land in Prnjavor this plane? How's the plane gonna land in Prnjavor and pick up a patient? The other thing is, I may have said a helicopter, but the plane can't serve for it. Do you know, uh, that plane has a range of 5,000 kilometers? Why does it serve 5,000 kilometers of range? So do you know that the main destinations of that plane are Kipar, Greece, Tivat, Istria and all the most exclusive tourist destinations? That's what I'm talking about, that there's a problem, and I support my what Stevandić said, drugs and everything that will save life, etc., etc. Let that in the Public Procurement Act, it... the cytostatics aren't urgent, here, according to your story they're not urgent. Well, the plane's an emergency. You heard her say the plane was urgent. She didn't mention those fast-reaction drugs for strokes, but the plane's urgent. And listen, he's an emergency and we're leaving without a tender. Well, which I really don't think is pointless. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5179	Okay. We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure and corrections to the wrong allegations. I ask you to slowly conclude the debate on this agenda point. We still have work to do. Stevandić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5180	I don't think anyone should be talking about something that doesn't have any knowledge of the metrics. It deeply offends and medical knowledge and, let's say, some spiritual peace that man has. I rarely deal with electric engineers, etc., and you shouldn't say it like that, what's urgent for the brain, what's urgent, cytostatic, that you shouldn't allow, it's really not right. And as for targeting someone else that broke the law, it's not right either. If you have reported the purchase of aircraft or helicopters, as you know, there is no indictment confirmed by the BiH Court of Justice for violations of the Public Procurement Act but there are charges for you, therefore there are no charges for you, and there are no charges for those you accuse. Well, don't, so please, it's a degradation of everything we say.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5181	zastupnica Vulić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5182	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I really can't come to myself to take someone down all the time, from the beginning, ever since there's been a discussion on the agenda of you as a leadership and to say that these points of the agenda are pointless, and now there's something in here that's got some kind of moral sermons and something like that. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Mektić, were you in the previous period of the Minister of Security or were you a priest? By what you're saying, you want to cross us all. I really don't understand what time we're living in right now, what time we lived in the previous period. There's someone here who doctors use their terms, had amnesia, I certainly didn't, but I think you did. And it's amazing how sad and sad and sad that you're demeaning people and people in the first place. You're talking about cytostatics and helicopters, you should be ashamed of yourself, there are so many young people, so many sick people, you're just dealing with populism and politics. You absolutely don't care about anyone...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5183	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5184	Don't like me Rules of Procedure. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's an amazing thing, as much as you don't have any courage or feelings for people, and it's no wonder these criminal charges get back to you and everything. That's what you need when you don't have a sense of common man.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5185	No more reports. Let's move on, 56 Ad. 18. Annual reports by the Central Bank of BiH for 2018, issue: 01-16-1-699/19 since 01.04.2019 The House College has designated the Finance and Budget Commission as responsible for considering this report. The Commission has delivered its opinion to us. The report accepted and forwarded further to the parliamentary procedure with the House's proposal to adopt this Annual Report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative Borenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5187	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I hope that in the follow-up to this session, our colleagues will adhere to a certain Code of Conduct and choose words when they address other MPs in this House of Representatives. When it comes to the report, the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2018, which is really large and is done by certain methodologies, according to certain parameters and certainly gives a good basis for which we can analyse, and in any case it will be a good report that we will be able to compare with the report that needs very quickly, as far as I know, in a few months' time for 2019, that it is a very important institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But what I wanted to take the opportunity to say when it comes to the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH, not getting too much into some big details, but I want to talk about one phenomenon that happened for the first time in the Central Bank of BiH, which is the fact that the BiH Presidency resolved two members of the BiH Central Bank Management Board from Republika Srpska in half of 2019 last year. More specifically, this happened at the Bureau meeting on 1906/2019, with a member of the BiH presidency from Republika Srpska and then the chairman of the BiH presidency with another member of the presidency, meaning 2:1 voting, violating the business procedure and acting contrary to the provisions of Articles 3 and 11 (1), (2) and (3) of the Central Bank of BiH Act illegally resolved members of the Central Bank of BiH's Central Bank of Republika Srpska. I want to make that clear here at this session, but also to say that a third member of the Bureau voted against this illegal conduct and violation of the business procedure. The decision to appoint members of the Management Board since July 2015 has resolved the members with a mandate until 10/0821 and so far practice in the BiH and Central Bank of BiH's presidency has never been to shorten their mandates if there are no legitimate reasons clearly set out in Article 11. The law on the Central Bank of BiH strictly respects the provisions of Article 3 of the same Act. Not wanting to get into people's qualifications at all, not names, not areas or places where they come from, but talking about something that, for the first time, as far as we know, has happened. And here we are in 2020 not yet appointed two members of the Central Bank Management Board from Republika Srpska. Is it naiveness, is it greed, is it chaires that we should grab at all costs because of this prey that is so distributed or something else entirely, I'm not getting into it. I also call on the BiH Presidency and the ruling coalition to resolve this issue and to fill the seats on the BiH Central Bank Management Board knowing that it has absolutely no political connection with us, nor should it have, there is one congregation majority, there are people who have mandates to do so. I note that the Bureau in this same composition considered this regular Annual Work Report 57 of the Central Bank for 2018, which was adopted without any objections, as the result in that year was positive and satisfactory as it was assessed, although in 2018 it was extremely unfavourable from the point of view of the functioning of international financial markets, as far as we know. Also, I note that the Central Bank of BiH's Management Board in 2018 introduced new international financial accounting standards, made more decisions on dealing with the mandatory reserve and investing foreign reserves in accordance with the current rules and the Central Bank of BiH Act, which ultimately gave good results and provided monetary and financial stability. In addition, a re-write of the treatment of monetary gold position that has had an adverse effect over a multi-year period was carried out, and was caused by poor governance and inadequate business policy in the treatment of monetary gold reserves by the Governing Board and the Central Bank administration in previous mandates. Why am I saying this? If the Bureau adopts, discusses and adopts the regular Annual Report that we have here today in Parliament without any objection, and then in breach of the procedure literally removes two people from the Management Board and it is both of us from Republika Srpska that we have an obligation to act as an MP, a parliamentarian who has been elected to the election unit of Republika Srpska, Election Unit No. 1, I want to say so. I note that with regard to the resolution of the members of the Central Bank Management Board from Republika Srpska, it was not known, nor was a proposal requested by most of the members of the Central Bank Management Board, which was an obligation in accordance with Article 11(2) of the Central Bank Act. Also, I repeat, the decisions taken on resolution in a legal sense are illegal and inapplicable, because they have legal shortcomings and are not made in accordance with the applicable Regulation on the Single Rules, the way, the design and content of legal acts. It is about legal unfoundedness and clearly illegal conduct. Until today, even today, Republika Srpska has no representatives on the BiH Central Bank Management Board and it has nothing, of course, to do with the current leadership, it is exclusively a decision by the BiH Presidency made in a completely wrong, unfounded manner and which has not yet resolved the issue of how and fill out the Management Board in a way that all of them are in the Management Board as defined by the law. In Februar 2020, in a few months, the report should arrive annually for 2019, as we see that this one was already ready in April of last year, it came into parliamentary procedure, due to the blockade of Parliament today we are only discussing it. I said a few sentences that may be important to mention, but in any case, it was my duty, my obligation to respond to this and to say that it is unacceptable that some of the teams, which they call themselves, are essentially doing harm to the people and republics who have chosen to be in certain common institutions of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5188	Thank you. No more logs, moving to the next agenda points. Before we move to item 19 of the agenda, I propose that we bring together the debate on points 19 and 24, given the fact that it is the Report and Information of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency. So I invite you to make a statement on the unification of the debates on points 19 and 24. Of the total attendance 38 – for 35, against nothing, abstention 3. 58 So we have a general and entity majority, which means that we have come to the conclusion that we are uniting the debates on points 19 and 24. It's the 19th point, Ad. 19. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2018, issue: 01,02-16-1-709/19 of 01.04.2019 As competent to consider this Report, the House College designated the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The Commission has provided us with a report, i.e. Opinion, the 2018 Report was adopted, as well as the Working Plan for 2019, and the House was also proposed to adopt the following conclusion: It is requested from all competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to participate in the establishment of an inter-minister council to include and form an inter-ministral council so that the Export Credit Agency can finally function, and that the Inter-ministrian Council decide what it wants from the Export Credit Agency from the variants offered. The 24th point we're also going to discuss is, Ad. 24. Information on the situation at the BiH Export Credit Agency, applicant: BiH Export and Credit Agency Management Board, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1649/19 since 17/09/2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here we have at last session of the House of Representatives we have a report on the work of the Export-Credit Agency for 2017. We now have a report from the Management Board on the work of the IGA for 2018 and we have information on the work in 2019, i.e. for the first six months of 2019. If we look at this past information and these two today, i.e. this Reports and Information nothing has changed, nothing has been done and in the business of the BiH Export-Credit Agency nothing significant has happened and the total liabilities continue to exceed the total amount of assets for 136.720.000.00 which, of course, raises doubts about the possibility of continuing operations of the Agency itself. 59 I will return to 2016 when the World Bank Technical Mission provided assistance in assessing the situation and proposed more options to resolve the current situation in the Export Credit Agency. At that time, the Committee of this House, the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, tasked the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of Export-guarantee agencies with the founders to choose one of the options, which of course should not have an impact on the fiscal system. And after this, this conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, we also witnessed the work of the Excise Commission, which dealt with the situation in the Export Credit Agency, and we also had the conclusions of these Commissions, which were also addressed to the Authority of the Export Credit Agency, as well as the Council of Ministers, i.e. the entity governments, and nothing was working on it, and nothing was working on it. Therefore, we will have, or here, every year until the final suspension of the Export Credit Agency reports and our conclusions in which we will conclude something and ask the Council of Ministers, Management Board or entity governments to finally assume responsibility for giving a guarantee that is far above the assets of the Agency itself and responsibility for the state of play. What I haven't seen, here to come back and be constructive, not to say that we're discussing again what we discussed before, probably, in the previous term, here's to be constructive and seeing that no independent auditor's report has been delivered in this Management Board report, because apparently I see that two audit houses have been contacted, but the first one has not responded at all, and the second one has subsequently given up when she saw the situation in the Export Credit Agency itself. So I'm going to suggest one conclusion, maybe help us see something new in our work. This proposal concludes: Yes in accordance with Article 18. The law on the revision of BiH institutions The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Office for the Audit of Institutions to carry out a special review of the Financial Reports of the Export Credit Agency for 2018 and 2019. We have this possibility, it's provided for in Article 18. The law on the revision of BiH institutions at the auditor's office itself is to decide, we are asking them, they can decide to do that audit or not. Here may also be the special audit for these two years of business that will help us and the entity governments to see clearly the situation in the Export-Credit Agency and that these consequences are manifested by the fiscal system itself and stability in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5192	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. Let's move on, point 20. Ad. 20. Report on the activities of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2018, issue: 01-50-18-922/19 of 03.05.2019 The House College has designated the Finance and Budget Commission as responsible for considering this report. The Commission delivered its opinion, the report was accepted and sent to the further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate on the report. 60 Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5194	Mr. Chairman, very short. So, here we are not talking about the subject matter of the review, but about the work of the Audit Office and I would ask if there is someone in the Audit Office just to explain to me – what does "restraint from opinion" mean? I mean, what that category means, because there's what's pure, so with a reservation opinion, this, that, that I know what it is. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5195	Thank you. We have, of course, present here at the Audit Office. Let's hear the other MPs, and we'll give you our word. Representative Borenović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5196	Thank you, very briefly. Since we had one controversy when we talked about the Board of Appeals, I would have suggested one conclusion, in fact two conclusions, because it's obvious that we have major problems in the application of the Public Procurement Act and when it comes to contracts that are being concluded, negotiators and all this that has been talked about a few minutes ago, I would have suggested two conclusions. The House of Representatives, so that we can come up with relevant information that can certainly help us when we speak more specifically in the coming period about how to overcome all these problems that are evident when it comes to the Public Procurement Act and about the work of the Public Procurement Agency itself. 1. The House of Representatives tasks the BiH Institutions Audit Office to carry out an impact review – problems and shortcomings in the application of the Public Procurement Act. 2. The House of Representatives shall require the Agency for Public Procurement to provide within 60 days information on how many contracts have been concluded since 01.01.2018 until today, which is their value and in what cases the contracting authorities have been engaged, and what is the value of those contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5197	Thank you. Here, you can answer that. Just introduce yourself for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5198	Dear Chairman, members of the working presidency, honourable MPs, media representatives, I warmly welcome you all. My name is jasmin Pilica, I'm the deputy general auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. 61 As far as the questions of honourable MP Nermin Nikšić are concerned, the review is theoretically abstaining from giving an opinion unless we had an insight into all the financial reports and could therefore not be convinced and effectively audited. This is in a particular case, we refrain from giving an opinion to the Intelligence and Security Agency because we have no insight into all their financial reports, which is also in some way the practice in the world. So we have two specific solutions in audits in developed Western democracies, in the revision of intelligence and security agencies, one is that they don't work at all, and the other is like this to have a certain limited insight. So, very rarely, all financial reports are audited in such specific agencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5199	Thank you. All right, we don't have any more logs. Let's move on, point 21. Ad. 21. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Report – a detailed analysis of the work of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, with a special emphasis on business with the Unis – the Dervent tube factory, with a proposal for measures to address the problem in the work of this agency, applicant: The Executive Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-50/17 of 17.01.2020 After the entity majority was not needed in the first round of voting, the House College as a commission failed to reach agreement on the Report on a detailed analysis of the work of the BiH Export Credit Agency. The Commission's report to the College has come to an end, the debate is closed and we remain to declare ourselves later in the second round of voting. Point 22. Ad. 22. Commission's report on the BiH High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Council's Branislav and Borenović Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-19-194218 and 01,02-50-18-1726/19 of 17 January 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5203	I thank the chairman. The basic feature of this State of Public Obligation information for the year 2018 was contained on page 27 in the summary of this information, where it was found that in 2018 the public debt increased by 111.05 million converting marks or 1.01% by 352.46 million converting marks or 4.49%, while the internal debt decreased by 241.41 million converting marks or 7.65%. The increase in external debt is shown under point 1.4. external debt, new loans, by sectors or by the purpose of the use of credit. Under this point, it was found that 1,081 (a billion 081) KM of credit was employed in 2018, 60,22% of which refers to the public sector or 651,237,146,00. And the public sector is the following projects: education projects, war victims, demining, cultural heritage, health care, social sector adaptation projects, development of municipalities, stand-by arrangements, assistance to refugees and displaced persons, micro-financial assistance, assistance to the social sector and loans to support the budget. 36.92% was charged in 2018 with infrastructure projects or a total of 399,263,956.00. Infrastructure and projects include telecommunications, water supply projects, train and wagon purchases, electricity, road infrastructure, railways, road recovery, public works, local heating, gas, housing, local development etc. While 2.86% in 2018 was in charge of projects aimed at economic activity or only 30,928 million conversion marks. Why did I read this? I read because we can conclude that this trend of investment and public sector debt is not sustainable. When we adopt amendments and supplement the Excise Act and increase the toll then we are convinced that the most credit assets will be invested in road infrastructure, i.e. infrastructure in general, and here we now see that this trend is not such but that the maximum amount of credit debt has been channelled into the public sector and budget support, meaning the total consumption of the administration that is overnumbered in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we continue with this trend, then business activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina will return every year and we will have the departure of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina in an increasing number. So I point out this trend that needs to be changed, and right now it should be the opposite scenarios, i.e. the most investment should be in the economy and business activities, then in the development of infrastructure, and then if there is anything left, and I don't think there is any need to invest in the public sector at all anymore, and only in the part relating to public sector reform and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5204	Thank you. Dear Representative Pekić. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5205	Thank you. In the Information on the state of public debt of BiH, we see that BiH's public debt is 11 billion and 118 million, it is the public debt of the Federation, Republika Srpska, the District and BiH institutions. In that part, the Federation of BiH participated 52%, Republika Srpska with 46.71%, Brcko District 0.47%, BiH institutions 0.66%. Republika Srpska's public debt is 5 billion and 192 million, the Federation's public debt is 5 billion and 799 million, if we distribute that public debt to the population, we will see that the people of Republika Srpska are almost twice as in charge of theirs as the inhabitants of the Federation of BiH, which is not a good indicator anyway. If we look at the state of public debt, which grew from year to year, we also see that the service of external debt, or public debt, has grown, so in 2018 we had to allocate 976 million to service the principal and interest related to external debt. If we look at the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina where this 111 million increase in this external debt was to be focused on capital projects and development, we see that there was a slowdown in industrial production growth in 2018, especially in the second half of the year, in the processing industry where negative growth is also recorded in the food industry, which will have implications in 2019. Bosnia and Herzegovina has 60 per cent of exports covered this way, with inflation 1.4 per cent in BiH's debt. One of the causes of inflation is, of course, the price of prices, primarily food, non-alcoholic beverages and transport prices. We are witnessing that due to the introduction of oil excise duties and oil derivatives, price developments and the harmonisation of additional excise duties on tobacco and alcoholic beverages have led to an increase in this rate and participated in an increase in the rate of inflation in BiH. If we look at employment and wages, according to the Office of Statistics in 2018, there were fewer employment offices around 39,818 persons and employee growth was 23,057 persons. So we're getting information that 16,000 people are no longer unemployed, but they're not even employed, so they all probably left BiH. As far as the fiscal sector is concerned, I'm talking about a sector from which money will have to be created to recover all these loans that we raise and spend in public consumption, in the fiscal sector we have a growth in VAT revenues, 263 million have increased VAT revenues. We've got toll revenue growth due to a $238 million toll increase. We have a slowdown in customs growth, due to the slowdown in growth and imports and exports, there is a slowdown in growth and imports to the refinery of the oil ship, no more imports that had a significant part in customs, in the amount of customs revenue. The proceeds of excise duties are falling, this is interesting, of 19.6 million, one of the reasons is also a multiple increase in excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products, we passed, at the last session we put that decision out, put it back to work, we don't have any information on what happens further about excise duties on tobacco, we know that they grew to 1.65 (mark 65). And another information that is significant in this regard, the banking sector in BiH in 2018 achieved a net profit of 342 million converting marks. All of this we need to know to say this, this state of public debt that BiH is in charge of the country. The public debt situation accounts for 32% of the total gross social product, it is believed that if the external debt situation has more than 30% of the gross social product, it is relatively high risk of insolvencies in work. The debt per unit of the export of goods, here we have the duty of the 60% exporting unit and we are the only one with this export of goods who can create a new value and we can show that we are able to repay the loans. With this relationship of 60%, we come to a slight problem in the recovery of our loans, which we take and which we spend on public spending. And just one more thing and I will end up, which in this report has particularly surprised me by paying a fee on non-engaged assets from 31.12.2018, we have paid a loan on non-engaged assets of 6.3 million converting marks, which opens up the problem and 64 itself withdrawing these credit funds and meeting the conditions set out in the credit agreements, which we so easily sign and take, and then we pay a commission on them or the problem is in the context and conditions when we sign these loans, we need to be clear and know on what deadline we take the funds and we need to know the conditions of how we spend these funds. These six million shows that we are not particularly capable of having the credit we take to be rational and spent, or to have that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5206	Dear Representative Bogdanić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5207	Dear chairman, respected members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members. So to discuss something that's been through and a little bit of a loss of meaning, but here's my colleague, Pekić, has done it very well through her period. It would be good if we weren't in charge, not the entities, not the district, not Bosnia and Herzegovina, not even ourselves, but apparently the responsibility follows her all the way to this country. What I would like only to say in two sentences, that I was informed by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska that the information on the state of public duty on 31.12.2018 was not, it is not true, or that the presented are incomplete... or non-liminary results and that, hopefully, in the next period should be corrected, that is not repeated. I also told the commission and we went into the debate, and I hope it looks different in the next period. And what is here may be small and illogical, and the Ministry of Finance pointed out, that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury has never implemented Article 9 (2) of the said law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which states that this ministry has been authorised to prescribe the fruit and manner, the deadlines for the delivery of the accompanying documentation from the position (1) of this member. I hope that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in the future will prescribe this and that the data will be credible. Furthermore, I have no intention of entering, I hope that in the next period the debt will certainly be smaller or if it is bigger, that we have better highways and other infrastructures in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5208	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zvizdić, the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5209	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs, I have reported to present a few positive facts when we talk about public debt, in general the internal and external public debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is obvious that each report can be read in two ways and can always be said that the glass is half full or that it is half empty. So, compared to this data we've heard, which is not positive or positive, there are data that show very positive trends when we talk about this topic. Therefore, BiH's participation in the gross social product for 65 2018 is 32% and therefore Bosnia and Herzegovina is the best-placed country in our region, as well as across Europe. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is both in absolute and relative terms the least in charge of the country and at the same time we have the best debt structure when we talk about external debt, because more than 75% of these funds go to capital infrastructure projects, which represent a very good base for economic development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Compared to this point, I think that in last year, Serbia's public debt was around 24 billion euros, so Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt is 5.5 billion euros, Serbia's public debt is somewhere around 23-24 billion euros, which is more than almost 55% of Serbia's GDP, while Croatia's public debt amounting to almost 40 billion euros, some 39-40 billion euros, which is more than 60% of Croatia's GDP. So, compared to countries in the region with our neighbours, we are both relatively and absolutely the least in charge of the country. At the same time, it should be noted if we make a comparison, let's say, 2016 – 2018 that public debt is smaller by almost 900 million marks than the external debt is lower by nearly 340 million and the internal debt by nearly 400 – 450 million marks. So these are positive data and positive trends, especially when we consider the fact that in 2016 and 2017 and in the first half of 2018, we were export leaders when we talk about the countries of the Western Balkans, when exports, for example, grew at a rate greater than 16.8%. At the same time, of course, we are leaders in certain types of industrial and processing industry, and we are still the leaders of tourism growth for the last four years, not only in the Western Balkans, but practically throughout Europe. Therefore, there are also positive things in all the reports and it is correct to point them out, but there are certainly some trends, especially in the second half of last year, which are not the most positive and which should actually be a warning to us or, on the basis of them, define guidelines for the further economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5211	Thanks, buddy. We don't have any more logs. We're moving on, so we're going to point 25. Ad. 25. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01.02-34-1-205/20 of 22.01.2020 The College prepared the above-mentioned Proposal for a Decision, and for the members of the Commission from the House of Representatives, i.e. representatives and representatives: Halig Genjac, Borjana Krišto and Nenad Stevandić, were proposed. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Dear Representative Mektić, come in. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5213	Thank you, Chairman. Don't mind me, just if I jump out of this context at first, I didn't get a chance to talk, but this SNSD colleague here said I should be embarrassed, that dictionary would leave at home or on the street where you picked him up, I didn't insult anyone here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5214	We're going on, to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5215	And I need nothing to be ashamed of here in this House. And now about this point of the agenda, I really can't believe it when I read this, 'we're able to go this far, do we really define that mental set of our citizens and are we really able to stick our finger in his eye so deeply? I'm reading here and among other things I'm watching Nikola Špirić, a man who's on the blacklist, president, I think Donald Tramp signed a blacklist because he's deeply involved and involved in corruption here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A man who has several investigations... in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, I don't know the Audi affair, the Vienna apartment, etc. etc. I'm not predicating that the man is guilty, so don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5216	Excuse me, agent, we can only talk about the members of the Commission from the House of Representatives we appoint them, I have said their names: Halid Genjac, Borjana Krišto and Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5217	... adopt the whole decision
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5218	No, we adopt, we vote for our three members, we don't have the opportunity to discuss the names that the House of Nations has run for office.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5219	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5220	Thank you. No more reports. Let's move on, point 26. Isn't that right, Ad? 26. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of BiH police structure, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01.02-34-1-198/20 of 22.01.2020 The joint college of both homes prepared this proposal for a conclusion and here it was decided that as members of the Interim Joint Commission they were actually members of the College and of one and the other home, in our case, so these are: Denis Zvizdić, Nebojša Radmanović and Borjana Krišto. The order is not in the gendarme, but in the chairman, the first and second vice. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports. Let's move on, point 27. Ad. 27. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-199/20 of 22.01.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5226	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the view that in the proposal of this point for the appointment of the Interim Joint Committee on the obligation to appoint two members from opposition parties in front of one, of course, or another home, here I was free to consult with colleagues and something individual, to propose for members of the Interim Joint Committee for the selection of the Chief Auditor: Predrag Kožul, Mr Jasmin Ermić and Saša Magazinović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5227	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. You've heard the suggestion of a conclusion. There are no reports. Let's move on, point 30. Ad. 30. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to conduct the procedure of selecting three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, one from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01.02-34-1-203/20 of 22.01.2020 Proposer of the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes that prepared that proposal for a conclusion. For members of the Interim Joint Commission from the House of Representatives, the following representatives are proposed: Denis Zvizdić, Darijana Filipović and Ljubica Miljanović. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Let's move on, point 31. Ad. 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of a representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Working Group for the Monitoring of State and Activity in connection with the possible construction of a nuclear waste disposal site at the place of Trska Gora, the Municipality of Dvor, proposed: 69 Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01.02-34-1-204/20 of 22.01.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5230	I thank the chairman. This is really the only commission where at least one name makes sense, so this is the only one where I see that some criteria, that you've handled some criteria, specifically Mr. Emrić, I don't think there's any more active and responsible person that the Trgovska Mountain is practically a topic daily in political circles than Mr. Emrić, so this makes sense. Now, everyone else, can the College explain, I mean on the basis of which, except in this case, where the opposition is bound by law, this one, exclusively, put people from three parties and by that, by SNSD, I mean this conglomerate, this one, so SDA, HDZ, SNSD. So I don't see any criteria. For example, in the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption, we have two doctors and one lawyer only, etc. So, except in the case of Mr. Ermić, where this really makes sense for a man to be in a commission concerning the Trade Up, none of these commissions have any visible criteria, I would like to know what the criteria were, especially because we do, I think you are Mr. Zvizdić in two or three, Mr. Osmanović think at least two, which I saw etc. So the only thing I can hope for is that these commissions, which are paid if they meet after hours, will not be sitting after hours, so that at least there will be some criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5231	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. Let's move on, point 32. Ad. Thirty-two. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, no later than three months after the date of adoption of this initiative, to deliver to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, which extends to their close relatives, modelled by the rules, definitions and common solutions contained in the Law on the conflict of interest in the institutions of BiH, the guidelines of the VSTV, the OECD, the European Union, the Council of Europe and similar international bodies," issue: 01-50-1-288/19 of 05.02.2019. The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as the competent committee to consider that initiative. The competent Commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has supported the initiative and is proposing to continue the procedure before the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Agent Arnaut, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5233	Thank you, Chairman. However, since I explained everything in detail at the Commission's session yesterday, that I am not wasting any further time, it is the recommendations of the relevant international bodies, that the holders of judicial functions are treated in the same way as elected and appointed officials when it comes to conflict of interest, specifically their close relatives and as you said, the Constitutional Commission was unanimously, with 2 abstentions, without votes against supporting this initiative, so I hope that the House will also support and follow the Council of Ministers. I don't see any further need, if there are any questions here alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5234	Thank you. No more reports. Point 33 is next, Ad. 33. A review of Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), forwarding a parliamentary initiative to amend Article 43. Law on working in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 26/04, 7/05, 48/05, 60/10, 32/13 and 93/17), number: 01-50-1-846/19 of 18.04.2019 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent to consider that initiative. The competent Commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has supported the initiative and is proposing to continue the procedure before the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Dear representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5236	Well, I wouldn't bother this House either, but I'd just like to explain a little bit why two points in a row of amendments to the Labour Act in BiH institutions. In fact, we felt that this first initiative that actually enables one of the two parents to be employed, and the parents are a disabled child, one of them has the right to work for 4 hours, so half of 71 working hours. This Law, therefore, entity laws already contain this provision and this Law, therefore, gives less rights to parents of such children than the laws of entities, and we felt that this is a simple provision, which therefore does not require much time and therefore would equalise the rights and employees of BiH institutions. And this second one, therefore, requires a little longer work, so one more radical procedure, and therefore, we have submitted this other initiative to approach the creation, therefore, of a brand-new Labour Act in BiH institutions, respecting therefore certain principles, above all the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Prohibition and Discrimination, etc. What I would also like to emphasise is that both initiatives, therefore, are supported by the Constitutional Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5237	Thank you. No more reports. We're moving on, Ad. 34. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic to draft a new Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1184/19 since 26.06.2019 As competent to consider this initiative, the House College designated the Constitutional Legal Commission, which delivered its opinion. The Commission supports the initiative and proposes to continue the procedure before the House of Representatives. I'm opening an initiative debate. There are no reports. Let's move on, point 35. Ad. 35. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Justice, no later than 30 days from the day of adoption of this initiative, to deliver in the parliamentary procedure the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, in such a way as to include in it a provision which would require the completion of the investigation into the disciplinary procedure, with no longer than six months," issue: 01-50-1464/19 of 09.08.2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5240	Thank you, Chairman. The essence of the initiative is contained in its title, so to set a deadline and what is particularly important, and that is stated, is that this is an explicit recommendation from the Institute of the Ombudsman report for 2018, and the Council of Ministers is certainly required to do this, but in any case it is good for the House to encourage the Council of Ministers to do so as soon as possible, and I am glad that the Constitutional Commission has supported the initiative and I call on the House to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5241	Thank you very much. Let's move on, point 36. Ad. 36. A review of Edita Đapo's parliamentary initiative, Saša Magazinović and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15), we submit a parliamentary initiative to include the criteria of 'green public procurement' as an instrument of environmental protection, which promotes environmental protection and sustainable development under the Public Procurement Act. It is also necessary for all public institutions, at all levels of government, to bring in green action plans indicating different activities and support measures for green or sustainable public procurement.”, number: 01-50-1-1609/19 of 09.09.2019 The House College has designated the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent, the Commission has delivered its opinion, supported the initiative and referred to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Đapo, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5243	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Well, I'll just explain briefly what green public procurement means. Green public procurement is nothing more than a tool or an institute aimed at, whether, satisfying or implementing environmental protection policies, rational use of natural resources and, of course, to enable sustainable development. The European Commission has defined green public procurement as a process in which public institutions and institutions seek to order goods, services or works that have less impact on the environment during their lifetime than goods, services and works with the same function that would otherwise be used or ordered based solely on price criteria. In the existing Public Procurement Act, which we have talked a lot about today, the basic criteria are taken into account without taking into account this lifetime, whether, the products and the damages it has to the environment. Since we are on our way to the European Union and will soon become a candidate member, certain chapters will be opened, namely Chapter 5 relating to public procurement. Therefore, I do not think that we should wait for this moment, but that it is very important that we now start with these positive practices of the European Union, as research has shown in the European Union countries has shown that the public sector and that public institutions have made huge savings in their budgets precisely thanks to 73 green public procurement. Therefore, our law should be incorporated into the 2014 Public Procurement Directive, the Energy Efficiency Labelling Regulation for office equipment, the Clean Vehicle Promotion Directive, the Energy Efficiency Directive of buildings and the like. Given that the public sector participates in the social gross product in a huge percentage, in Europe it is 20%, so I suppose that in Bosnia and Herzegovina the same thing, I think that the installation of this institute or enabling our municipalities, cantons, entities, and therefore state institutions to use this institute would lead to, whether, not only budget savings, but also the achievement of those local, cantonal, entity, and then, I would say, regional and international plans, whether, and the objectives of environmental protection. Of course, everyone knows that the Council of Ministers formed a Working Group in 2017 that works on the new text of the Public Procurement Act, but what I at least don't know from the media is whether this system, i.e. the instrument of green public procurement, is installed in the new text and therefore I ask the House to support this initiative unless it is found in the new text that then the Council of Ministers can go with the amendments and additions to the new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5244	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5245	I thank the chairman. I will be very brief because my colleague Đapo is someone who has really done a lot of things in this area in the past period, and I will just say that the sooner we face these issues alone, the easier this will become sooner or later European institutions' demands towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Perhaps this is also a good way of working MPs from different clubs of parties, as well as clubs of people from the House of Nations, who are gathered in a green club that has already become recognized by the institutions, I want to thank the entity ministers Đapo and Golić, who have indeed achieved co-operation with us with the MPs who are dealing with these topics in one way. Former Minister Šarović, and in particular the new Minister Košarac, who, at this short time of office, made a significant step when it comes to Trade Gora, which is also an important issue that we are dealing with, as well as with you, while you were chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I believe now as a member of the College, who will recognise the importance of environmental policies and this way of informal organisation of MPs, in order to, whether, in an atmosphere where there is not a lot of politics, and there is a lot of substance, to take a step. This proposal is one of these, can he pass today not pass that is, it is less important than the fact that we need to gather around topics that have neither ethnic nor any other prefix, and obviously are important to all of us. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5246	Thank you. No more reports. Let's move on, point 37. Ad. 37. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative requiring the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to prepare and supplement the Law on Road Safety on Roads in BiH, which would significantly strengthen sanctions for motor vehicle drivers in the practical management of the vehicle, which determines the amount of alcohol in the blood over 1.5 g/kg (Article 174). (2) Law)’, number: 01-50-1-2130/19 of 11.12.2019 The House College has designated the Commission for Transport and Communications as competent to consider this initiative. The competent Commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has supported the initiative and has referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5248	Thank you, Chairman. What I think is necessary to stress in this case is that I received a proposal for this initiative from a concerned citizen from Tuzla, who noticed that anomaly in the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that persons who have 1.5 and more milligrams in the blood of alcohol, the penalty is between 400 and 1000 marks, then it is halved if you pay within 8 days, in any case it is not something that will stop anyone, punishment alone is not something that will stop someone from sitting behind the wheel. To illustrate, even though it stands in reason, it's from 6 to 8 standard alcoholic beverages. The standard alcoholic drink is a bottle of beer, a glass of wine or a dose of hard, means 6 to 8 depending on the sex and the constitution of the given person. Here this initiative ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Six beers, six glasses of wine, etc. I mean, it's very dangerous. This initiative does not prejudge the solution, it should leave it to experts, leave it to the Ministry of Transport and Communication to determine, among other things, the practice of the region and Europe what will be appropriate sanctions. What is good, that the Commission has supported this initiative and representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications have agreed that the current sanctions are not adequate and that this should be tightened by the House if it accepts the initiative will oblige them to do so in accordance with all these standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5250	Thank you. Before we move to point 38.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5251	75 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5252	And we have another, distinguished representative, Miljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5253	I just want to support this initiative, and I think we all need to support this all-out, because we are really witnessing every day in our hospitals taking care of young people with very severe physical injuries, which result in severe disability, and very often with a fatal outcome. So I think it is necessary to form an expert team and from doctors who know what percentage is minimally allowed, and also from lawyers and the ministry and to make one law that will indeed have greater criminal consequences, not just ordinary penalties and exclusion from co-operation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5254	Thank you. Of course, we all really support this. It's very important to have security on our traffic. Before we move to point 38, I suggest we bring together the debate on points 38 to 40, as it is a matter of giving salgasity to ratify agreements, contracts and amendments. So I invite you first to come forward with a motion to unite the debate. Thank you. Of the total 35 present – for 32, nothing against, 3 abstentions. So we have the necessary general and entity majority. I find that we have adopted a motion to unite the debate for agenda points 38 to 40. Ad. 38. - Ad. 40. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, contracts and amendments For these points, you have been given the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission and I am opening the debate. Dear Representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have only one request that the vote be a separate vote under each of these agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5257	Thank you. Dear Representative Borenović. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5258	Thank you. Since it is a ratification of a part of the agreement that has long been on hold and which should have been ratified, i.e. Confirmed by the House of Representatives as early as last session of the House of Representatives, I would like to draw attention to certain things that are quite illogical and I will most say, most I will address the Deputy Speaker's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Radmanović, who, of course, is in line with one practice that was well established in the previous period, respecting the importance of coordination, i.e. The mechanism of co-ordination on the road Bosnia and Herzegovina has towards the European Union, the general coordination between different levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is really complex, knowing that as key people in the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need to respect the fact that there are also the institutions of Republika Srpska, the institutions of the Federation of BiH, the cantonal institutions and the local communities, as such which make up a single system on which Bosnia and Herzegovina operates and, in addition to the practice that has been established before, at least when the MPs from Republika Srpska come from Republika Srpska, we are looking for the opinion of resolution ministries, resolution institutions and I think that I do not know whether this is done by colleagues from the Federation of BiH, especially when it comes with agreements, contracts and on the points of the agenda which significantly define this type and co-operation, coordination and obligations arising from decisions we make. And something interesting happened to me, I can't understand that we have a situation with the same, same content, same agreement we have two totally opposed opinions of the resolution ministry of the Republika Srpska government and that government of continuity, which is not a government where there is a minister from one or another political option but even from resolution ministries signed by the same minister. And that's what I want to draw attention to, especially to you, Mr. Radmanović, to see how this is treated, because this creates confusion. Here I will be concrete, when it comes to the draft agreement between the People's Republic of China and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the veterinary field, we have an act that came in 2016 by the distinguished minister, then Minister of the Government of Republika Srpska Steva Mirjanić, who clearly says that we agree with the text of the Treaty and that we give a positive opinion on the same in 2016, Minister Mirjanić. In order to come to the same agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of China on cooperation in the area of animal and quarantine health, 06.12., where it is said that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management cannot give a positive opinion on the same agreement. I mean, it's kind of a weird situation, and it's made me feel like I don't know how or how to treat an act like this. We have a similar situation when it comes to the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the field of tourism. In 2013, it is likely that these agreements are being made for several years, this is probably the procedure, which is why it takes so long, in 2013, the minister of Republika Srpska's Ministry of Trade and Tourism clearly says that the Ministry of Trade and Tourism is writing under its resorient authority to support initiatives and activities aimed at improving international co-operation in the field of tourism. In order to take a different view in 2019, the fact from the second minister, but from the same government gathered around the same political coalition, that there was, in the preparation of this Agreement, that there was a breach of the procedures laid down in the provisions of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international preambles, etc. and the questions which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entities, which also required the obtaining of the opinion of the competent authorities of the entities, which had already come. And we've come to a strange situation that we can't have a clear view of this kind of thing and that on the committee we're considering all these ratifications of the agreement, all of these contracts, of course we've had an interesting and important opinion and the institutions of Republika Srpska, and we've come into collage when 77 are concerned with these two agreements. And from what I've noticed, Mr. Radmanović, we haven't had any views of the committees in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska lately, which has been a practice so far. Because I was an MP at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and I know that committees in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska had the opportunity to give their opinion on the issues that, I say, are of great importance and are in the competences of the Republika Srpska, and everyone cares that any decision taken in the House of Representatives, in the House of Peoples in the Common Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the result of a general compromise, only such a decision can have its best final result and meet the goal for which we are all here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5259	Thank you. No more reports. So we've exhausted today's agenda. We need to agree on the length of the break before the vote itself, is that 15 or 20 minutes, half what, how long is enough for clubs? [[Common discussion]] Half an hour, huh? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5264	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5265	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5266	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5267	Which dot?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5268	That's good. It was nine.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5269	I have the general majority, the entity majority, that we have from Republika Srpska by 4, against 9, so it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5270	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5271	Let's move on, round two, so we vote for point nine first. Point 9. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Travel document, Proposer: Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1200/19 since 01.07.2019, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, we first vote on the Commission's Opinion on Transport and Communications on the Proposal for a Law. A total of 40 present - for 23, against 16, abstention... What? 80 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the total 40 present – for 22, versus 17, abstention 1. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. The Commission's opinion has been accepted, which means that, in accordance with the Commission's opinion, the law is considered a secretary, is it rejected?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5273	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5274	Okay. Point 10. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1517/19 of 30.08.2019, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission We first vote on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Total attendance 40 – for 13, versus 26, abstention 1. There's no general majority. Opinion not accepted. The Commission is obliged to draw up a new opinion in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Point 11. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1694/19 of 25/09/2019 (first reading) We vote on the proposal for a law in the first reading. Total attendance of 40 – for 33, versus 7, held nothing. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority. So, accepted the bill in the first reading. Point 12. – Annual report in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-28-1888/18 of 10.08.2018 We first vote on the proposal for a conclusion, the first conclusion of Mr Jasmin Emrić, since he has two. The first conclusion is, you are a little bit shorter and shorter, whether to make: 81 BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in accordance with the stressed need to include a high political level in the annual reports in the field of agriculture, food and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017 and 2018, asking the BiH Council of Ministers to organise a meeting with the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Brcko District, the Prime Minister of Canton, the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance of Canton, the Entity and the Brcko District for the adoption of the IPARD operational structure model in Bosnia and Herzegovina, within 30 days. Let's vote. Don't just repeat the reading, you can vote. Total attendance 40 – for 29, versus 8, abstention 3. The general majority exists, the entity majority does not exist. From Republika Srpska... _____________(?) /Collegiate consent. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5281	/Collegiate consent. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5282	We vote in the second round right now. Of the total 40 present – for 23, against 9, abstention 8. There's a general and entity majority. So the Annual Report was adopted. 83 Point 13. – Annual report in the field of agriculture, nutrition and rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1469/19 of 14.08.2019 We vote on the adoption of the Annual Report. In total 40 – for 21, against 10, abstentions 9. There's a general but not an entity majority. [[/Collegiate consent.]] Here we go right now to the second round of voting. In total 40 – for 21, against 10, abstentions 9. There's a general and entity majority. I find that we have adopted the Annual Report from the field of agriculture for ‘18. ’ A year. Point 14. – Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2016, submitr: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1 2316/18 of 23.10.2018 Prior to that, we vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the Club's representative, the Independent Block, which reads as follows: We propose the conclusion that an interresor working group is formed, whose task will be to work on amending the law on the financing of political parties in which the framework will be incorporated and the recommendations of GRECO, the Coalition "under the Light", with respect to the principles of rational spending of budget funds. We propose that the composition of the working group should include representatives of the civil sector dealing with this issue, and primarily representatives of Transparency International and the Coalition "Under the Ball". We're voting on a conclusion. Of the total 40 present – for 24, against 14, abstention 2. There's a general but not an entity majority. [[/Collegiate consent.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5288	Is there any conclusion...?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-02-04-0.u5289	There is a later conclusion of the Commission, but now it is only receiving knowledge of the Report in the second round. In total 40 – for 17, against 18, abstentions 5. There's no general majority. He was not admitted to the knowledge of the Report. We also have a conclusion here from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs where it is said : The BiH Parlametary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked by the Management Board of Export and Credit Agency to agree in co-operation with entity governments as the founders of the Agency to opt for a change in the future of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH. We are voting on this conclusion from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs. A total of 40 present – for 25, against nothing, abstention 15. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting on the conclusion. Total attendance 40 – for 27, versus 9, abstention 4. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusion proposed by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has been adopted. Point 22. – The Commission's report on the BiH High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Council's Branislav and Borenović Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-19-194218 and 01,02-50-18-19 of 1701.2020. Total attendance 40 – for 19, against 18, abstention 3. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. 87 Point 23. – Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's state of public debt on 31.12.2018, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-865/19 of 23.04.2019 Glasmo on receiving this information. For 28, versus 9, abstention 3. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We are going to the second round of voting on receiving information on the state of public responsibility. Total attendance 40 – for 27, versus 10, abstention 3. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So we received information on the state of public duty. Point 24. – Information on the situation at the BiH Export Credit Agency, applicant: BiH Export Credit Agency Management Board, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1649/19 since 17/09/2019 This is the point for which we had a single debate with this 19. Now we're voting on receiving this information. For – 14, versus 24, abstention 2. There's no general majority. This information has not been received. Point 25. – Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-205/20 of 22.01.2020. Of the total attendance for 16, against 16, abstention 8. There's no general majority. So no decision has been taken. Point 26. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-198/20 of 22.01.2020. For 27, versus 11, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. So this Komsija was adopted. Point 27. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-199/20 of 22.01.2020. For 28 versus 10, abstention 2. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. 88 Point 28. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of seven members of the BiH Appeal Office in Sarajevo, Proposer: Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-201/20 of 22.01.2020. For 28, versus 11, abstention 1. There's a general majority and an entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. Point 29. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-197/20 of 22.01.2020. You had that correction right here, did you? So now the representatives of this Commission are Predrag Kožul, jasmin Emrić and Saša Magazinović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then we repeat the vote. Mrs. Krišto is, but here it is, unless you want me to do it again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
