ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen of the envoys, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you. I ask you to take your seats and open the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. All regular guests were invited to the session. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Unfortunately, at the same time, a meeting of the Council of Ministers is held with our session, so we do not have the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers here today, representatives of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the Institute of Human Rights, the Advocates of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. The session is attended by 15 envoys, 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serbian people. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure at the beginning of today's session, and before the debate on the agenda, the envoys will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that together with the invitation to the 4th session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegation questions in oral form. That letter or notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was also addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Mladen Bosić for the Council of Ministers of BiH, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, representative Denis Bećirović, as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegelti, envoy Lazar Prodanović for the Council of Ministers of BiH. Ambassador Zlatko Miletić asked 3 envoy questions addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. The appointed did not specify that he wanted to orally ask and receive an oral answer for one of the questions raised at this session of the House of Peoples, but left the possibility of providing answers in writing or oral form. If envoy Zlatko Miletić wants to ask one oral question of these three, he remains the possibility of doing so now at the beginning of the session. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the announcement was delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers for which the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to the Public Television Service of BiH in order to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 Now we can start asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the envoy, Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u115	Thank you, Chairman. I asked the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, specifically Minister Mitrović – on the basis of which the assessment and documents by Minister Mitorović in a statement to the Dnevni Avaz of 02.01.2020 favoured Corridor Vc compared to other travel infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all the highway Sarajevo-Belgrade? Does this mean a continuation of SNSD policy that was against the Declaration of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives on the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway route through Brcko and Bijeljina, which should connect most of the Republika Srpska and most of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Serbia and the east of Europe? On the basis of which assessment does Minister Mitrović claim that it is important that the Vc be completed as soon as possible, and that the project of connecting with Belgrade is just connecting with the neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u116	Thank you, fellow Bosić. I will ask Deputy Minister of Transport, Mr Branković, since the minister is not here to answer this question potentially. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, yeah. Mr. Branković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u118	Dear chairman, distinguished representatives of the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić, therefore, asked the question – On the basis of which assessment and documents Minister Mitrović's statement for Dnevni Avaz of 02.01.2020 favoured Corridor Vc compared to other travel infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all, the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway and the rest of the questions that I do not repeat? The answer is a little wider, but given the time it has the right to give a direct answer, I will shorten the written response it has made. So it is true that the Minister in Dnevni Avaz said in such a way, elements that do not talk about favouring Corridor Vc, but about the dimension of the implementation are: therefore, Corridor Vc is an internationally certified corridor on the Pan-European network of corridors and it has been processed rather earlier at the level of the BiH Council of Ministers from the aspect of study documentation and selection documents and is financed by international financial institutions and it has its dynamics of construction. The Belgrade-Sarajevo highway's project initiative in two sections, in two sections as planned, has an institutional process ahead of it and will have its dynamics according to the institutions' decisions. In the shortest response elements, I repeat, the answer is a little wider and would require more time to read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u119	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Is the envoy satisfied with the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u120	Well, with a response like this, I really can't be satisfied, because I didn't know anything about it. The issue here is related to the priorities of building a network of highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is obvious that there are no priorities that are formulated on the basis of any exact data. Here the construction and construction priorities of highways are directly bound and exclusively tied to the individual, to the will of individuals who have so much power that they can determine for themselves what and how to build. After asking, or following the procedure on this issue, I heard on two or three occasions members of the presidency and Bosnia and Herzegovina from Republika Srpska, Milorad Dodik, claiming to be the priority of all Republika Srpska's priorities and the construction of Banja Luka-Belgrade highway, whose part is certainly part of Sarajevo-Belgrade, which passes through Brcko and Bijeljina towards Belgrade. So we have a real situation here that we don't even know what priority means or how deadlines are defined. With a huge waste of funds from citizens' pockets through excise duties voted here under the pressure of the International Community. I will continue to ask questions about highways, about deadlines, about what is going on, but it is obvious that this is not about expert opinion, about priorities based on exact indicators, but on the political will of those who have... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u121	Dear Bosić, thank you. Since time has already expired, I have a little, here, tolerated, I think you have clearly asked your question, received an answer, and according to our Rules of Procedure you can ask it in writing and so you will get it. Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here's a colleague of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps we should take two minutes first and point out that, unfortunately, we have not even started this part of the agenda with what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House. Not only today was he obliged to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but the Rules of Procedure accurately states that there should be at least half of the members of the BiH Council of Ministers. From you, Mr. Chairman, I expect you to let us know if the preconditions for one of these points of the agenda have been met. My question, too, is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but he is not here. Now the question is, how do you realize that point of the agenda? 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u123	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u124	Well, I know, but you broke it, flagrantly. But here, even though there is no chairman, at least I'll take the opportunity to ask for an answer in writing. My question is, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of BiH – What exactly have they done so far and what will they do with the aim of adopting a law on the prohibition of denial and denial of genocide committed? I think in this year when the 25th anniversary of genocide is marked, we definitely have to pass such a law. In accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution, we can do it in two ways. One is here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and we need to know if it is possible to do so. If not possible in such a way, there is another way that is prescribed by the Dayton Peace Agreement. We have very clear mistakes...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u125	Time, Mr. Bećirović, take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u126	Mr. Chairman, I will complete my presentation, but here, I will now give you a truly sincere application, as you use the Rules of Procedure to monitor the length of our statements, please use the Rules of Procedure in principle and consistent manner from the beginning to the end so that you can enable everything that the Rules of Procedure prescribes to work in accordance with this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u127	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Here, a note once again, maybe I should have said it in the beginning, two minutes is scheduled for your oral questions, and here, each breaks in one half minute. That's why I stressed it more like this. You emphasized what you wanted. Since we don't have a Council of Ministers chairman here, just in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure, at the first next session when oral questions are foreseen, will be chaired and answered to your questions. Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow delegates, respected present at this session. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and refers to this – Is it true that 16 officials of the Communications Regulatory Agency and two representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers of BiH attended the World Conference on Radio Communications last December in Šeik? Given that the costs of transport were borne on behalf of the present, so the institutions that sent them, I want clear information, how much, accurate information, exactly how much did the funds cost the participation of this very large number and probably relative to the size of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its economic power, the largest delegations in this conference, if they were to be combined with that? How much were these costs, and how is the justice of spending 5 public funds, given that the use of radio spectrum was defined by international legal acts, and not in this number of those present at the Conference? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u129	Thank you. Since we have the same situation as on the previous issue, that we don't have a Ministry representative, or were you going to answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u130	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u131	Here you go, Mr. Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u132	I thank the chairman. This response has two parts, one part refers to ministry employees, and the other part to employees of the Communications Regulatory Agency and they are responsible for managing their financial resources and their costs. I would first of all like to point out that this trip took place before the appointment of the current minister at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, so during the previous one. I will read the answer as a whole, this, to be precise – in the framework of the official trip in question, representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications attended the Conference as deputy head of Bosnia and Herzegovina's delegation in the period of 27. 10 to 1. 11. 2019. As part of her stay, she attended the ceremony of the official opening of the Conference and several conference panels on different topics. A representative of the ministry as head of the delegation in the period from 06.11. to 24.11. participated in the Conference on several panels at different points and signed the final act of the Conference and attended the ceremony of the official closure of the Conference. Financial expenses for airfare, accommodation, taxi transport on the way back from the hotel to the airport and daily are on the Ministry's burden, while the transport on arrival from the airport to the hotel was organised by the ITU. The travel expenses of members of the Ministry delegation who participated in the Charm el Sheikh Conference are 7,403 KM, the costs of the airline are 3,500 KM, slightly stronger, accommodation costs 2,600 KM, daily expenses 1,100, other costs 55 KM. The conference is held on a continuous basis every four years, lasts for 30 days and has a work-consultative character, and final acts are signed at the end of the conference. In the course of the ITU conference, it is obliged to ensure the continued presence of representatives from the competent ministry and the radio frequency regulator. So this meeting of the Ministry will also analyse this journey and, if it does not need to be applied further, it will not be a practice, but we should stress that the participation of our ministries in international bodies is necessarily and beneficial to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. /Common Dicusion/ 6 Okay, the debate is out of the...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u135	This RAC delegation was a little more numerous, but they are a particularly legal person, let them on their costs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u136	Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course, you, take it, then get involved. Just turn on the microphone, colleague Izetbegović. Here you go. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u138	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u139	My colleague Branković's time is up. Thank you very much for your response. Is the envoy satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u140	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased in this part, the presence of members of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, I do not have this more significant remark, but I believe it is necessary for delegates to be provided to me with information on the costs of this 16-member delegation and, er, I consider it to be an independent Communications Regulatory Agency that the public is obliged to know what it has been for so many, I am convinced that these other costs are significantly higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u141	You'll get everything in writing. Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Zlatko Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It may be undiplomatic but here, to save time and stick to these two minutes, I warmly welcome all of you here. Given that I have asked three envoys questions, I will address this most important one, and for these remaining two I expect the competent institutions to deliver a written 7 answer to me. So, I will address the issue of children and education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it concerns my request from 10.12. to which no one has answered me so far. The application referred to the Council of Ministers in the old assembly, that the BiH Ministry of Finance or the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, would find a way to implement funding and resolve the status of the Central Medical School, the Catholic Centre John Paul II in Bihac, to intervene in providing 140,083 KM preferably from the budget reserve. Unless that's possible, I'm asking the Ministry of Finance to answer the question whether it can solve the issue during this calendar year. I'm asking you to give me a sure answer in writing. One more thing to add since I still have time. I think that given that this school was founded in 2013 and that by playing the case of some administrative charms in Unsko-San canton, the school was simply not declared a school of general social interest. It is very degutant that these costs are borne as the founder of Bishop Komarica, because man is unable to gather several thousand believers there, we still need to charge him to pay 140,000 KM for the schooling of these children, 161 students of different nationalities, and I think it's embarrassing, that this issue is not resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u143	Thank you. As for the last question asked, in accordance with Article 157 of the next session, you will receive an answer to this question orally asked questions. But here, and according to this request of yours, in writing, let the answer be provided to the other questions. That's how we exhausted this part of the envoy's question. Thank you very much. For the 4th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Envoy Zlatko Miletić's request for an examination of the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, No. 02-02-1-155/19 of 08.07.2019; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-205/18 of 26.03.2018; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law (first reading), Proposer: Envoy Denis Bećirović, Law No: 02-02-1-1810/19 of 15.10.2009, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Annual consolidated audit report 2017, Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH material, issue: 01,02,03-16-1-1329/18 of 31.05.2018; 6. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, materials of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury No: 01,02,03-16-1-1330/18 of 31.05.2018; 8 7. Report on the restructuring of the expenditure of BiH institutions under budget expenditure for the period from 1. 1 to 31. 12. 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, number: 01,02,03,01/14-16-1-1114/18 of 07.05.2018; 8. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-194218 of 27.08.2018; 9. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-1726/19 of 30/09/2019; 10. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-50-19-2568/18 of 27.11.2018; 11. Special report on the appearance, use and protection of national or official features/marks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: The Ombudsman's institution for human rights BiH, issue: 01-50-19-49/19 of 03.01.2019; 12. Report on the work of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-1532/19 of 26/08/2019; 13. Report on the implementation of the General Elections 2018 and the Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2018, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1741/19 of 02.10.2009; 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2017, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-2627/17 of 29.05.2018; 15. The appointment of three members from the House of Peoples to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1- 2015/17 of 09.08.2017 and 26.09.2017).; 16. The appointment of three members from the House of Peoples to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1 377/18 of 27.02.2018).; 17. A delegation initiative by Denis Bećirović, which reads: "I am submitting a delegation initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 120 days of the date of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which ensure the full and consistent implementation of the four European Court of Human Rights in the cases of Sejdić and Finc, Azra Zornić, Ilijaz Pilav and Samir Šlaku", number: 02-50-6-1781/19 of 09.10.2009; 18. Envoyed initiative by Denis Bećirović, which reads: "I submit the delegation initiative in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH that, no later than 60 days from the day of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, prepare and provide in parliamentary procedure information on the harmonisation of curricula and programme bh. The entity Republika Srpska and Serbia, with a special reference to the coherence of these plans and programmes with the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina," number: 02-50-6-1962/19 of 12.11.2019; 19. Envoyed initiative by Denis Bećirović, which reads: "I submit the delegation initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, that, no later than 60 days after the date of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the preparation and parliamentary procedure shall submit amendments to the relevant legislation aimed at implementing the European Court of Human Rights on the case of Irma Baralija against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina for failing to hold elections in the City of Mostar", issue: 02-50-6-200/19 of 20.11.2019; 9 20. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Bosniak People, issue: 02-50-8-2161/19 of 1601.2020; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Grant Treaty (Corridor Vc in RS – Part 1) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, jurisdiction: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-05-2188/19 of 19.12.2019; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on International Regulations for the Prevention of Sea Conflicts 1972 (COLREGs), jurisdiction: the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01.02-05-2-2086/18 of 14/09/2018; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of acts of the World Postal Union adopted at the 26th Congress held in Istanbul in 2016, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01.02-05-2-2087/18 of 14.09.2018; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol under the Convention on the Agreement on International Road Transport of Goods (CMR), Geneva, 19 May 1956, jurisdiction: Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02-21-1-195/19 of 23.01.2019; 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Principles governing the activities of countries in the exploration and use of space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Communication and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02-21-1 1589/19 of 06/09/2019; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02-21-1-1903/19 of 31.10.2009; 27. Giving consent to ratification of Protocol No 15 with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01.02-05-2-2092/18 of 14/09/2018; 28. Giving consent to ratification of Protocol No 16 with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01.02-05-2-2093/18 of 14/09/2018; 29. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants – Barcelona Convention, jurisdiction: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01.02-21-1-196/19 of 23.01.2019; 30. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-21-1-1767/19 of 07.10.2009; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France in the area of cinematographic co-production, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02-05-2-2553/18 of 27.11.2018; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the extension of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the field of education, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02-05-2-2715/18 of 10.12.2018; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on Social Security and Administrative Agreement on the implementation of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on Social Security, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02-21-1-148/19 of 17 January 2019; 10 34. Giving consent to ratification Amendments and additions to the Annex of the International Labour Organisation on Marine Identification Immunity (Revised) No. 185 of 2003, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01.02-21-1-812/19 of 16/04.2019; 35. Giving consent to ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the counterfeiting of medical products and similar criminal acts that pose a threat to public health, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02-21-1-1768/19 of 07.10.2009; 36. Giving consent to ratification of amendments and additions from 2018 to the 2006 International Labour at Sea (MLC) Convention, competence: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01.02-21-1-1-1769/19 of 07.10.2009; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on the establishment of a three-way border point between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02-21-1-1772/19 of 12.11.2019; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of Austria on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, jurisdiction: the Ministry of Security of BiH, number: 01,02-21-1462/19 of 08/08/2019; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on military-financial cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, jurisdiction: the BiH Ministry of Defence, No 01,02-21-1724/19 of 30/09/2019. Here, this harmonised amended agenda of the House of People's Colleges you've got. Since no one answered the question, we're closing the debate on the agenda. Excuse me, my colleague Miletić called. Here you go, fellow Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u144	Thank you very much, President. I have two questions or if you want two suggestions. I ask you if it is possible to respect them, not just you personally, but the College. Given, here, that we've had a chance to ask a question before. I've stuck to the Rules of Procedure if you've requested it, is it, and this article 155, but please, and I think it would be good for the next House session, given the provisions of article or article 56, where we were obliged to at least once a month have one session, to allow or give us a chance, which means since we haven't actually worked for 10 months, to even ask 10 questions. I think it would be good for all of us, we would understand each other better, and I think we would make it easier for the Council of Ministers and other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for us, and they would simply be more efficient in that way. The second thing, please, since we had two commissions late yesterday and in a very unpleasant situation we are bringing our employees and employees to the Secretariat, first I congratulate you from the Secretariat that you have managed to sublime all of this and to implement conclusions from yesterday's sessions, commissions and commissions, but I would really ask you to chair the Commission at least 48 hours before holding a session of the House. And the third thing, given that I, in this previous agenda, was meant to be on the point of the 19th agenda relating to my initiative, which was about 11 amendments and additions to the VSTV Act, given that I had conditionally given up that initiative under certain conditions, and had not seen in these materials whether this conclusion we agreed on yesterday had been respected, I would indeed have asked Mrs. Secretary or Mr. Čolak as chairman and the Commission to possibly read me the conclusion about that point so that I could definitely give up on that, under the alleged signs, of article 19 from the previous agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u145	Thank you. Since these weren't remarks on the agenda, we think that here, that was your comment that got out of business. As for the sessions themselves, we, with today's 4th regular session and these three extraordinary sessions, will end all the backlogs that we had in front of our home, given that the commissions, we have appointed all the commissions in the past 15 days, and we have had one grip of time. The rest of the work of the committees will be in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and I think that we will now have regular sessions every month and already in the next month I believe that we will catch up with everything the Council of Ministers will... of the bill that was once delivered as such. As for these other remarks of yours, I'm convinced that our way of working through the College is what it is. As far as this question is concerned, you got it in writing, if it didn't get to you then he's in writing, so there's no need to explain the views of the committees here. Thank you again. Since there has been no change in the agenda, as this agenda has been agreed through our College, there is no need to declare it, it has been adopted by automation. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate on this. Since no one signed up for a word, I'm closing the debate. Let us vote on the minutes of the 3rd haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 15 - 15 for. Federation of BiH – 10 all for, Republika Srpska – 5 all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 3rd haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to the point of two today's agenda, 12 Ads. 2. Envoy Zlatko Miletić's request for an examination of the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, No.:02-02-1-155/19 of 08.07.2019.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think this is one of the most difficult questions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I'm really going to watch me pick words when I talk about this, I'm not going to talk about it, maybe this time I'll look less at the content of this. And why did I ask for an emergency procedure to change Bosnia and Herzegovina's KZ? In view of the fact that it is only the amendments of two members or two articles, however you wish. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, it means Article or Article 124, I felt that the conditions were met, that this issue was addressed in an urgent way, since, that the proposed content of amendments and additions to the Law was very simple and that we here today can agree to accept it fully or reject it. Namely, what it's about. I was first startled by the fact that the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although one chapter speaks of acts that have to do with hate, that there is no explanation in the concept of what hate is and just one of those members, I tried, whether, with lawyers working on this, to explain the concept. And the bottom line of this key member's proposal is that it's really time after 25 years to stop denying genocide, war crimes, crimes against the civilian population, here I'm talking about all the peoples, all the citizens, is the same mother crying in Srebrenica and Bratunac and Bugojn, and I think the conditions have been created that after 25 years we really solve this issue, and I'm humbly asking you to do it, this is a historic chance to do it ourselves. Let's not let the high representative and hide behind his political decisions to do it for us. If it's not as hard for me as the person who participated since '91. in the war, since '92. By '95, and as well as memory serves me, there weren't too many of you here in the O.R. in that war, if I can forgive it and get over it, I don't see why you can't do it. I ask you, please, to think about this and that, with a full conscience, consciousness and responsibility, here today, let us consider this question and make a historic shift towards reconciliation of the citizens of this country, but I think only in this way, by reconciliation, by mutual respect and respect, above all, of all the victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of the Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak or others, I think it is high time we did this, especially given the fact that this year in Srebrenica is marked by 25 years of genocide that was carried out there, no matter what any of you individually thought. In the light of this, this, these changes and additions, please, it says that as many as 90 people of different nationalities have been convicted of war crimes by the International Tribunal in The Hague, that I am not talking here about domestic, domestic court rulings. That's one thing. 13 And the other thing, when it comes to glorification, to stop, to name cities, public squares, streets, institutions, hospitals, war crimes schools, that's not civilized. If one Ruanda could do it, I don't see any reason why Bosnia and Herzegovina couldn't do it. And the essence of this proposal is that the denial of war crimes genocide is predicted here as a criminal offence, with a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years. Of course, the award of recognition, medals, various privileges to war criminals, as well as the punishment of responsible persons with a prison sentence of 6 months to 10 years. If any further clarification is needed, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u149	Thank you, colleague Miletić. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Bećirović was the first to apply. Here's a colleague of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u150	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Although it is the amendments of two members of BiH's Criminal Law that I must point out that it is a very important proposal for the law of our counterpart Miletić and that today it is the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and all delegates in the House of Peoples on one major test. An examination both in front of the home and in front of the international public. I want to say very clearly in public here that I absolutely support this amendment. I think this is the law, not for the past, not for the present, but for one law for the future, for the safety of all citizens and peoples in our country. I must point out that the Law is also fully in line with the BiH Constitution, which is an integral part of the Constitution, especially with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Civil Liberties. This law regulates the issue of banning hate, challenging national, racial and religious and any other hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a very dangerous phenomenon in our country. It also speaks of the need to break up with the award practice and the award of convicted war criminals. Without such legal solutions, we cannot move towards Euro-Atlantic integration. That's why we need to support one of these laws today. After all, by ending it, I ask everyone in the House of Peoples a question – What is an alternative to such legal solutions? The alternative, unfortunately, is that we still have the savagery of hate, the impunity of causing national, religious and other hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we have the uncertainty of all citizens and of all peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe that this really is not in the true interest of anyone in this country. So here, too, I call on us to support this proposal by fellow Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u151	Thank you. A colleague named Dušanka Majkić came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u152	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to ask first, are we now discussing procedure, are we talking about emergency procedures or are we talking about the law? 14
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u153	Now we're talking about the law, right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u154	About the law. So, first of all, I would like to tell my colleague Miletić that in the future he's taking a little more care of himself, because I've been looking for something around him three times, you've changed something three times, don't do it in the future, once you've prepared the proposal, look at it from all the details and when he's gone, he's definitely gone. Three times change something, it really doesn't fit, and it doesn't make sense. That's the first thing I'd like to say. The second, such a law, this type or similar law in the Parliamentary Assembly since 2007, when it was first proposed by two MPs of the Party for BiH, means in 2007, and then repeated it in 2012, and then in 2016, SDP had its own version of the topic with, in a similar way, a solution. Then, in 2017, the Council of Ministers proposed amending the Criminal Law and introducing... about the same matter as this and here we are in 2020 when this proposal for the Law of Mr Miletić comes. The law is short, but its essence is important and perhaps it is our responsibility in the Parliamentary Assembly, I mean representative of the Serbian people, which we had to explain more why we did not accept it, that is the very essence of the matter. Before, uh, preparing myself for this session, I decided to see how they look at this matter in the Council of Europe, what those documents are supposed to be to us and what we should base ourselves on when we have proposals, when we make decisions, because we have a intention, is that we become a member of the European Union once. So, the Council of Europe asks its members, meaning European Union countries, to introduce in their criminal law the form of a crime called approval, denial and reduction of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity established by the laws of the courts. So it's, it's undeniable. But they have two things the Council of Europe points to, Article 7. The decisions say that what is required of the Member States of the European Union, that this type of discrimination is introduced into their criminal legislation, in no way do I repeat, in any way, in any way affecting the imposition of this incrimination, if that means breach of freedom of expression or opinion. And we're right here. And the Council of Europe says - denial of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity is a crime only if the way of denial is done by encouraging and calling for violence against a particular group. So that's what the Council of Europe says. What were our arguments about why we could not accept and will not accept this Law? First of all, we can't pass a law like this while the judiciary is in a state where it is, and as long as it doesn't stop... one of them is judged by the retrospective application of the law, the law that came after the crime, until one nation is tried incomparably more than the other. As long as there are all these problems related to the judiciary, we can't accept this law being passed. We also cannot accept until the proceedings, which treat war crimes against members of the Serb people, are brought to an end. I know that this would suit Bošnjak and that this would be an ideal opportunity, that now that the masseuse trial for war crimes against the Serb people begins, that it would be an ideal opportunity to make a large number, that the courts are practically buried in objects that speak of injury to the right of expression and opinion. Finally, a large number of war crimes in the Great Park in Sarajevo, the murder of civilians in Rakovica, Rogatica, Foca, Bihać, Sijekovac, Zenica, Tuzli, High, Gorazda, Srebrenica and many other places have not yet received an epilogue. And what does that mean if the law was passed? That would be a constraint in defending the defendants. Even if the defendant had serious arguments that would speak in his favor and in his defense, he would be characterized to reduce, i.e. minimise or deny genocide and therefore be convicted. They'd be write-offs without the right to defend themselves. There is also a verbal delinquent 15 that threatens the freedom of speech of accused persons and their right to defend themselves. To many citizens of Serbian nationality, they would be deprived of what every right and every justice would have to provide. In particular... in the 21st century, a verbal delinquent, which draws particular attention to the Council of Europe, represents a selective punishment for all those who have a different view of history, a view of the past war when history has not yet come to an end, regardless of the view of the courts, history has not yet said everything about what it should have been, and especially that there should be no other choice. Even worse, imagine if one of the scientists decided to deal with Srebrenica issues, he would not have the right to do so, because as soon as he came to scientific knowledge that speaks contrary to what the courts said, the UN tribunal said, he would be in a position to answer, and not to give it to him, to take it as something that should be considered. So it is known that Republika Srpska has formed two international commissions with experts from 12 countries. One is the Commission for the Death of Serbs in Sarajevo, and the other for the death of all peoples in and around Srebrenica. So 12 countries have given their experts to the Commission. We believe, the Commission is working, and it should end somewhere, I think, by summer, and we believe that we will come up with something that we haven't had so far. We have the right to believe that, we do, and perhaps the Serbian people care most about that truth. Because of all this and because after that we can see all the events of this war, we can discuss many other things. So, I wanted to say all of this, to make you understand why delegates in the order of the Serbian people can't accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u155	Thank you, colleague Majkić. I'm going to ask you something now, my colleague Izetbegović, please get involved, get involved, get involved.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u156	Yeah, yeah, so... here's a comment on what we heard from my colleague Majkić. Claim to Judge Serbian People
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u157	Čović and Izetbegović speak together. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u158	...the claim to be tried by the Serb people, no one can judge a nation, only criminals can be tried, right? Then, to narrow down the area for those who defend themselves in a way that will prohibit them from denying genocide. Is it possible that people will defend themselves in a way to deny the UN tribunal's verdicts and deny genocide? Is it possible that they will defend themselves in such a way that they will deny genocide? Then, you mentioned massively, that a wave of mass trials took place for crimes against Srbin. Thank Bog there were no massive crimes against the Srbin, because here's what you're going to do, what will soon be determined. So when all of them are convicted, in this wave that you're now talking about, when you add up all of these victims, it won't be equal to the day of the crime that happened in Srebrenica. So Srbin should be grateful for that fact. When 16 crimes occur in wars, but when all these crimes are gathered together and their sacrifices, more people are killed in Srebrenica one day. And finally, history has not said everything it needs to say about developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the courts said, international courts said on the basis of thousands of days of testimony and tens of thousands of documents they took into account. We do not have to wait, therefore, for the judgments of history, we have the judgments of the courts, they should be respected and spoken to by the Council of Europe. Denying, relativating crimes, celebrating criminals, awarding medals and rewarding criminals is absolutely one anti-civilization thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u159	Thank you. We will have to go back a little bit to the Rules of Procedure for, above all, the need to determine the procedure, the status of this Act, as you colleagues, Majkić, said at the beginning, and then we will return, and it will do no harm to end the debate, including these and Mr Bećirović's application to correct the wrong allegations and yours as such. So, please, let's go back in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure. Is there a need to discuss the urgency of discussing this Law? If there's no record of that, we'll go to the voting procedure, and we'll continue the debate. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u160	Dear Chairman, I will always support you when you are calling for the respect of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this and when someone registers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you should give this delegate and the word immediately. Here when I heard the discussion of my colleague Majkić, I wondered if the same text of the law had come to us as it did, since she was talking about 90% of the things that could not be found in this Law. That's one thing. Secondly, when you have instructed a history of attempts to install such legal solutions into laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it goes in favour of us today supporting such a law. The third very important thing is, do not selectively interpret the acts of the Council of Europe or what is legislation in the countries of the European Union. Well, the European Union has sanctioned these phenomena much more precisely and sharply, even some countries have built it into constitutions, Italy, Španija. The German Penal Code when you read it, you'll see it's even more rigorous, Austrian, Czech, etc. Not to mention all those comparative experiences now. Here, and it's very important to underline, it's not any restriction on freedom of expression, it's an attempt to protect democracy in this country, an attempt to introduce European standards in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without such legal solutions, we cannot be in the European Union and we should not turn away from this topic, since this is the House of Peoples, to protect vital national interests here, I am responsible for saying that this text of the law is vital national interest both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak. And finally, there is no need for anyone here in the BiH state parliament to speak and mention any unrecognized and phantom commissions that do not bind anyone alive on this planet. They have the International Court of Justice rulings and the highest legal body of the United Nations, the International Criminal Tribunal, etc. It's permanently recorded, and this second one for entertaining the local public, it really doesn't have to be mentioned, because there's no legal effect on that. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u161	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. You disobeyed the suggestion, and then your colleague, Majkić, came in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u162	I will not knowingly replicate to Mr Bećirović, because there is nothing there, his attitude is known and he is often more rigid than many who are not in the so-called. The civil parties, but I want to tell Mr. Izetbegović. I know it would be good for many to adopt the law and stop and what will follow now after the opening of the archives in many countries, in which different views will be given to events in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We now see that some indicators say that not everything is exactly the way it is, but in the end it is known that judges from the UN tribunal often knew that they had an opinion and didn't feel the same way. Let us let him do his every job, and we are here in the House of Nations in charge of caring for the vital interest of the people from whom we come. So I don't blame you for having such an attitude,...it's your right, but also let me, who speak for the Serbian people, also have my position and remain consistent with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u163	Thank you, colleague Majkić. Let's get back to the procedure now, if anyone wants to get involved in the process debate, now is the occasion. If no one answers, as no answer, I'm the one who concludes the debate. I ask you first to vote on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill in a hurry procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Voting procedure. Thank you very much. 15 present – all for. Republika Srpska – 5 all for, Federation of BiH – 10 all for. There's a general, entity majority. I find a request to consider the amendment and supplementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have been adopted. Now we open or continue the open debate about the bill. Is there any need for anyone else to report for the hearing? If he doesn't, we'll close the debate. Excuse me for correcting the wrong quote Mr Miletić... a colleague of Miletić. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u165	I'll really try to be very brief, thank you very much. There's no key here where I'd say, is it, to confirm that Mrs. Majkićka's right, that what made me ugly about these procedures, and really forgive me, it might have seemed inappropriate, but unlike you, I'm here for the first time, most of you are in a second or third term in one or another home. So until I get by, anyway, thank the sekretarijat, here's what I'm going to do next, given that I'm not an education lawyer, to be more precise and more precise. I beg you, I simply didn't want to hurt anyone's emotions in any way and not take examples of the behaviour of both Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin, the other, negative examples in all three peoples. So, please, before you vote again, I think we'll make and have a historic opportunity to resolve this issue. In any case, if you don't do it today, I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have the right to ask the High Representative for help to impose this Law. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u166	Thank you. We've exhausted this debate, I don't see the application, I'll wait another minute for it to turn out that we're going fast. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Penal Code by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. We're voting on the law, the bill. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 – for 6, versus 9. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 5 against. There's no general, there's no general majority. I agree that the Law amending and supplementing BiH's penal law has not been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the point of today's three agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-205/18 of 26.03.2018. This is the first reading of the draft law of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples, the Committee for Finance and the Budget of the House of Peoples, we would like to note that these opinions have been delivered in the previous meeting. Legislative and Legal Commission(?) It has established that the proposal for a law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, with its structure, shape and style, is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that 19 draft laws were in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Committee for Finance and the Budget of the People's House supported the bill's proposal. I give the word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u168	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u169	No need, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Is there a need on behalf of the Proposer of the Law for a word? No, thank you very much. No one's applying for a hearing. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 15 - all for. Federation of BiH – 10 all for, and Republika Srpska – 5 all for. There's a general, entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item four of today's agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law (first reading), Proposer: Envoy Denis Bećirović, Law No: 02-02-1-1810/19 of 15.10.2009. This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, firstly, is the debate on the need for adoption, the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative and legal sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the draft law complies with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is not acceptable, but is not acceptable to the principles of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples, Mr Bariša Čolak, if necessary. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u171	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u172	There isn't. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there's any need. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u173	Thank you. So, it is about amendments to BiH's election law, and the aim of these changes is to prevent social promotion and any other promotion of violently convicted war criminals in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law, therefore, aims to protect the international reputation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as it is impossible to move towards Euro-Atlantic integration with persons convicted by war criminals who act as important public, electoral or other functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is our job to return both citizens and peoples to this country's trust in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and certainly that, in all the institutions in our country, and surely by adopting such a law, they would take a positive step in that direction. Today we have a chance to send a positive message to both the local and international public and to show that we are really ready to follow European standards. In no European Union country, convicted war criminals play any social role. It's time for both Bosnia and Herzegovina to move towards those standards. The key annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement is Annex VII, it is impossible to continue to implement Annex VII if we come to the position that the convicted war criminals again play a political role in our country. How will anyone come back or how will anyone stay if he comes back in such circumstances? I think this is the law that makes the first step towards a serious and political and moral catharsis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The absurd situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that hundreds of thousands of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have passive voting rights, I mean Bosniaks and Hrvat in the RS entity and Serbs in the Federation of BiH entity. Not to mention how discriminated are those who plead in Bosnia and Herzegovina as others. So hundreds of thousands of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have passive voting rights when it comes to the BiH presidency, and the House of Peoples, etc., and this problem has not been resolved for a decade. We know why. On the other hand, several convicted war criminals have also been active in our current state, and passive voting rights. I think it's absolutely unacceptable. I also want to point out the fact that many comparative experiences of other countries speak in Europe that we can take advantage of these experiences, here, so to speak, from what the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, and a series of other European Union countries say. So I repeat, and here's the opening statement and I'm done, we need the adoption of this law for at least three reasons. First – for preventing the discrediting of the electoral process and democratic order in Bosnia and Herzegovina, second – due to the upcoming local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina held in this year and third – because of the need to really introduce a European standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u174	Thank you. 21 Since there are no more requests for discussion, we conclude the debate. Since the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has not accepted the principles of the bill's proposal, we are voting first on the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Please initiate the voting procedure, so we vote first on the Committee's opinion. Thank you. At present 15 – for 9, against 5.1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 4 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. As provided for in Article 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, where the House of Peoples accepts the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, the proposed law shall be deemed to be rejected. Thank you very much. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2017, materials of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-16-1-1329/18 of 31.5.2018. You have received the opinion of the Committee of Finance and the budget of the House of the Peoples of the former convocation. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 3rd session on 16 January 2020. I give the word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u176	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u177	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u178	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u179	Thank you very much. I'm closing, or I'm opening a debate on this Consolidated report. Anybody got a word in? There isn't. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the Annual Consolidated Internal Audit Report for 2017. Please initiate voting procedure. 22 Thank you. Attendance 15, 14, apology 14 - for 12, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH -- with 7.2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5, all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the Annual Consolidated Internal Audit Report 2017 was adopted. Thank you very much. We're going to the six-day agenda, Ad. Six. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury No: 01,02,03-16-1-1330/18 of 31.05.2018. You have received the opinion of the Committee of Finance and the budget of the House of the Peoples of the former convocation. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 3rd session on 16 January 2020. I give my word again to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee, Mrs. Majkić, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u181	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u182	There's no need. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone on this agenda? No, we're closing the argument. Please initiate voting procedure on the Consolidated Report on the Financial Management and Control System in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017. Voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 11, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH -- with 7.2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, a consolidated report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017 has been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to the point of seven today's agenda, 23 Ad. Seven. Report on the restructuring of the expenditure of BiH institutions under budgetary expenditure for the period 01.01 to 31.12.2017, material of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02,03,01/14-16-1114/18 of 07.05.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u185	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u186	There's no need. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point if anyone comes forward for a word. He's not answering, we're closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the restructuring of the expenditures of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions under budgetary expenditure for the period 01.01 to 31.12.2017. Please initiate the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Thank you. Present 14 – for 8, versus 1, abstention 5. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority. Okay. [[/consultations of the College.]] We're going to the second round. Please initiate voting procedure. Present 14 – for 8, versus 1, abstention 5. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the report on the restructuring of the expenditures of BiH institutions under budgetary expenditure for the period 01.01 to 31.12.2017 was adopted. Thank you very much. We move to point 8, and we have a first proposal to put together reports on point 8 and point 9, if you all agree on having a joint discussion. Okay. 24 Ad. 8. Annual Report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-194218 of 27. 8. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: And point nine, Ad. Nine. Annual Report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-1726/19 of 30. Nine. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u189	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u190	There isn't. Thank you very much. I give a word to the reporting officer if there's any need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u191	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u192	You can do that, it's up to you. Thank you very much. I'm opening the hearing for point 8 and point 9. Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered her word. Here you go, fellow Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u193	Yes, when someone first asks us – what are you now discussing about the 2017 Report, but there are some messages that are good and important regardless of what year they refer to. Although the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of this House, or Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, does not adopt but accepts knowledge, it is still good to do so because we see the full state of the court. These are some reference points on which we could propose some legal solutions and make the judiciary more effective than it is. The second is an unconstitutional role of the judiciary since neither the court nor the prosecution, therefore, the key judicial institutions, nor the VSTS are foreseen by the BiH Constitution, are imposed by the decisions of the High Representative and that it is time to say the final word. As important as it is to say, it is necessary for foreign judges to leave the BiH Constitutional Court and to make that one order. ...on each side, each of you has made this mess and chaos that has given us in the judiciary such that everyone has contributed theirs. So that's what I'm counting on Parliament, but if we weren't to judge by heart, here's a few downfalls I brought out to see from that 2017 report, what does the 25 efficiency of the judiciary mean? Is it how effective that court is, what does that mean? So the total VSTS budget was about 4.8m or 4.9m, and the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office's budget was 30.2m. At the time, there were 110 judges and prosecutors in the court and the prosecution. Now, an example of a partnership with Republika Srpska, that the budget of the courts and prosecutors in Republika Srpska amounted to 60.3 million, while the judicial and prosecutorial office in those institutions was performed by 470 judges. The BiH Court, the judge's office is 52 judges, and the total number of cases in the paper is 8.276, the inflow in the current period, meaning 2017, is 5,800 and something, and the number of cases left in earlier years is 2,300. Total solved 5,700 items. This means that every judge of the BiH Court was on average in charge of approximately 159 cases in 2017. Now, what does that mean when it comes to entity level, I made it for the Republic of Serbia. In the courts in Republika Srpska, in 2017, there were 375 regular and additional judges. In the work of the courts, the total number of cases was 577,900, meaning 578,000 cases, the inflow of new cases during the current period was 205,000, and the remaining cases from earlier periods amounted to around 380,000 each of the judges in Republika Srpska was in charge with approximately 1.540 cases in the course of 2017. I remind you that every judge of the BiH Court has been in charge of 159 cases, you look at these proportions. The BiH prosecutor's office in 2017 was 95 prosecutors, and 168 indictments were filed, in Republika Srpska the number of total charges brought by the number of persons in 2017 was 369, Republika Srpska 4,650. So these are some, some of the data that were pretty vague to me. Why has there a relatively comfortable and rich budget and relatively modest exit totaled by the number of cases that are in the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office...? So, it can be concluded, and I expect the president of the VSTV to look back on that, does that mean that the judicial institutions of Republika Srpska are more effective than the judicial institutions of BiH, regardless of having better conditions, the larger budget, is that one of, can that be said? Secondly, the VSTV advocates the adoption of amendments and additions to the VSTS Act proposed on the basis of the Pier Review. I read it somewhere that it's an official VSTS attitude. I was informed by the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska that earlier memos suggested that it be carried out, arranged for a constitutional session to be attended by BiH Justice Ministers and Entity Ministers and Brcko District, their representative, and that after that meeting the principles on which the working group for the construction of the new VSTS Act would work. I read in the paper that something is going on on that plan, and I would like the minister of justice to be here and to tell us exactly what's going on and how far away we are when it comes to the VSTS Act, and I hope that the representatives of the VSTS would participate in that segment, given the significant experiences they have. I don't agree with another position put forward in the VSTS report, which is that the VSTS should be the formal draft of the budget for courts and prosecutors. This justification is found in this respect, the courts and public prosecutors in Republika Srpska provide their income from the Republika Srpska budget in accordance with the Law on Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors, and we cannot withdraw from this principle because the Constitution of Republika Srpska requires that the budget be passed by the People of Republika Srpska Assembly on a proposal from the Government for each year and for the institutions of the judiciary. This recommendation to the VSTS is neither in line with constitutional nor with legal powers. I ask you to state your position in your further presentation because when a budget is made he is sent to the VSTS to give his opinion on it. It means that you're still involved in all these decisions and there's no point then continuing on this one. Finally, I want to say, perhaps this is a key issue, the VSTS reform is one of the central issues of the functioning of the BiH judiciary, it is necessary to establish a better organisation, jurisdiction, especially the responsibility of judicial employees. I also believe that, that there is no need to run away and that serious attention should be paid in the next period whether the VSTS should be separated into a part that deals with courts and gives consent to the choice of judges, and this other 26 part that would deal with prosecutors and give consent to the choice of prosecutors. Also, I expect that there will be seats in this, and that the main judicial functions, so the president of the BiH Court and the chief prosecutor, will be elected within the framework of the legislative authorities at all levels in line with the place where they belong. Here, therefore, similar things are repeated both year and year, so it doesn't need anything special and that's exactly why it can be one matter, but I expect that if we can solve this VSTS issue by respecting what I've said, then we'll know who that address is that we should type on, to whom whoever answers and will not come to these situations that have been going on lately that there's a real war going on between Parliament and the VSTS which really doesn't have any justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u194	Thank you, colleague Majkić. Now you will allow me, given that there are more applications for discussion that, in accordance with Article 73(4), we will take a break and continue this debate at 12 and 30 precisely. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] I'm going to ask you distinguished colleagues to take our seats. The number of participants is such that we can conduct the debate and continue the debate. We're moving on to the part where we asked for an hour's break. A discussion on the united report was concluded by my colleague, Majkić, and orders were registered by counterpart Bosić. My friend Bosić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u196	Thank you, Chairman. It's about the 2017 and 2018 reports and it wouldn't even make sense to talk about it, I don't know why we're just discussing this report for 2017, for 2018 I know why we're just discussing it, because it wasn't even Parliament and this House. So there is really no great point in discussing such a distant period, except that I cannot resist taking advantage of this item of the agenda or of this item of the agenda to look at the fundamental problems that the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina clearly has. I can freely say that, without any dilemma, it can be claimed that the reform of the judiciary, which it carried out at the big door and with the big bells of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has failed the project. Citizens do not trust such a judicial system, those who run the judiciary do not know the basic features of democratic functioning and the role of the judiciary in a democratic society. Our society's tendencies are that politics determines every segment, and so does the judiciary, and it has become evident and obvious. I actually wanted to look back, first of all, on the claim made by the President of the Supreme Judicial Council the other day, which I heard in the media, so I would like to hear from him 27 comments, that MPs do not understand the functioning of the judiciary, that MPs, or Parliament, want to take control of the judiciary and from that claim, it seems to me that you do not understand the basic democratic positions in which the judiciary in democratic societies works. Three pillars of government executive, judicial and legislative must have control over each other. Your claim that the judiciary must not have any control has actually led to a system like this where citizens, or the public, no longer trust in your impartiality. The control of the judiciary, according to this reform that has failed, should be done precisely by your institution, or the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. You don't do this, you can't do this, it's not just a matter of you and your mandate, but of your previous mandates, I'm convinced that there's a systemic error in the position of the High Judicial Council and that something has to change there. So control must be established over the functioning of the judiciary in order not to be controlled or certain centres of interest or policy, as is the case in this case. You do not have to convince us that this is not the case, you will certainly not convince anyone, because I am convinced that everyone knows that the situation regarding the use of the judiciary in someone's interests is more than obvious, and therefore I can state countless examples, would not want to open individual cases, nor is it even the jurisdiction to work here in Parliament. In 2018, we held a special session of the BiH House of Representatives, where there was a detailed and good debate on the situation in the judiciary, where virtually all MPs took the same position that something had to change and where there was almost a unanimous conclusion except, I believe, the SNSD party and I am not sure about HDZ, was to be in charge of the Ministry of Justice to deliver within the shortest period of two months a new draft law on the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council, which will place responsibility on a second basis in various segments of the judiciary. That didn't happen, no one did anything in the field, my insistence with the minister of justice, who is now the minister of justice, means in this term, to get an answer to that question was that representatives from Republika Srpska did not propose their candidate to a commission. What's that got me up to? In conclusion, there is no political will to move things in any direction regarding the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why is there no political will? Well, it is obvious that these wills are not owned by those who in some way feel that they have some influence or are satisfied with how the judiciary is doing now, that is, having political, judicial protection in some way. I suggest, I will vote certainly against this law, that my vote, not the law of this report, means past report either accepted or withdrawn nothing will change until there is a political will to do something here. I, unfortunately, do not see it at this time, and I will repeat my belief that this is the biggest, convincingly biggest problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, in order for other institutions to function in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be on a completely different basis than is happening now. So until something changes there's no way that we have any better or more advanced system that citizens can expect progress in the future and we're going to have what we have right now, you know what we all know now, we have a country that is slowly empty and not primarily because of material bad conditions, but rather a choir of lack of perspective and mistrust in the future under such a political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u197	Thank you, colleague Bosić. Next, a colleague, Sredoje Nović, signed up. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u198	Honorable chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen. You see, this is for who knows which time in this House, as well as in the House of Representatives, to discuss the reports of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, the prosecution, etc. etc. What worries me is that the formula that we all have been able to take in knowledge, and that's all we've been through for many years. What does it mean to gain knowledge or not to receive knowledge? It's just an excellent flossula that someone came up with in order to confront certain structures, political structures, especially before the elections, directly after the election or in the fight for judicial leaders, which are presently either yesterday or tomorrow there. I think it's better to throw out in the first place that we've received knowledge or we haven't received knowledge. Namely, the material comes, the report of the moment when it comes to the benches of each of us, so we must have received it. Who's going to say that, uh, now this material was in my hands and I'm voting now, is that, against, I didn't take it into account. It should be properly schizophrenic so that we agree from year to year and sit here as representatives of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So what I want, then, is that the first thing I'm up for is that we drop it, or we adopt the report or vice versa. The report is delivered to the BiH Parliament for knowledge and point, there is no vote on it, so this is very correct for me, not to say we are receiving knowledge or not receiving knowledge. To talk about the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we all speak from different aspects, of course the judiciary speaks with its own language, the prosecution, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, politicians speak from their point of view, lawyers from their point of view, all have their own hunger angle, but no one can be exculpated from responsibility for the situation in the judiciary. I can't tell politicians that's the problem of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, it's the prosecution's problem, it's the judiciary's problem. It is not true, in this House the laws on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council were passed, we will say sometimes imposed by a high representative. Find me which law is not confirmed in these homes. That means it's expressed will here in one way or another. Why are we doing this? Is it possible to exculpate the executive power of it, the Council of Ministers, who has both the ministry and not today, but will probably have it who knows how long and there is also part of the responsibility. I don't exclude even responsibility, of course, of the holders of judicial functions, but it seems to me that many discussions for years, at least what is presented in public, are the key and the desire to just change Pero, come Ibro, change Ibro and come Ivan. Everything will change when we change one at a time of my political or a little bit, and the national and we constantly, in this unfortunate country, are constantly conflicting. We don't have political powers, I say it completely responsiblely, we don't have in this House, we don't have in this House, we don't have a political power to sit down, we don't have a debate. We in this Bosnia and Herzegovina are just running, there's no dialogue, there's a monologue here just expected to listen, and I'm saying, as long as the situation doesn't turn around, so that we can all say some things without pathetic, no humiliation, no national, no political, there will come this time, whatever one of us thinks, the time will come when someone will have to sit down and say slowly to open the issue of justice in a civilized, cultural way. I congratulate the President of the High Susco today for getting the strength to come here after a series of public stories, and some say there's no prosecution what with us, we have nothing to do with them, we're all independent. She's a poor family where when a son gets separated from his family and becomes a child, he starts his family, so his father calls him to glory, like the Orthodox bar, and he doesn't want to come, it's not independence, it's misery and that he's separated from his father. And if that's how we think we should separate ourselves from each other, then that's gonna be terrible. 29 I really want to tell us all that we need to open a dialogue, a judicial reform process, but based on arguments, based on the profession, and no one can be above anyone. Neither is the judiciary above the legislative authority, the legislative authority here makes laws, and whatever they are, we will either pass laws or we will not pass them. Why there are no reform processes, why there is no reform in the judiciary already, I don't know how many years it is, perhaps even seven, eight years as this issue has been raised, but we all do. Citizens, when you talk to citizens, and understandably he is looking at himself, he is looking at his case, he is looking at his sister's case, aunts, aunts, and aunts, if we are not looking at everything, but we are also getting into it, and we are starting to criticize ourselves for certain cases of judicial work, which is extremely radical, we are starting to comment on individual judgments of one, the other or the fifth, which is also very, very dangerous. It's not a solution, I assure everyone, just in the shifts of individual judicial functions, here we all have responsibility, one in judicial functions, the bearers of judicial functions on one side which may not have worked adequately, have not worked enough, etc. etc. And we, in the legislative, or parliamentary authority, answer for the fact that we have not changed the laws. We can't keep our mouths shut and stay, here's a colleague who just said that a conclusion has been made in the House of Representatives and I don't know, uh, to pass a new law, etc. etc. And what did we do next? We agree practically as the highest legislative authority with nothing being done. It can't, until responsibility is established, I believe it won't, there won't be any progress. I'm very interested in the relationship between the judiciary and the judiciary and the D.A. and the police. As much as I keep track of the public there's never been so much confrontation on the public scene, the conflict between police structures and the public prosecutor's office, it's just amazing. It's as if we haven't even made it clear what the role of the police is, and what the role of the prosecution is, and so I think that, if it's not a good solution legally, let us change it or something else hides it in all of it. So, here's to, yes, to say in the end, that we should all refrain from giving political grades on specific cases that work in prosecutors, because it seems to me to be the most controversial in cases. I'm worried that some objects last not two, three, five, but seven, eight and more years, and I don't see any reason why that's happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u199	Thank you, colleague Nović. The next one was registered for discussion by his colleague Jusufović, Munibe, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. This item of the agenda is so broad and so complex that anyone involved to contribute to it or possibly criticise it has the right and will find a series of arguments because...., but also probably everyone from your angle when looking is extremely strong, but if you are looking at the other side too can be some other side, it means a lot of them, it can even happen that each of us here as a delegate has a view on this matter. Generally speaking, there are reasons and there are strong reasons to be dissatisfied with the structure, the way, the activities of the judiciary. The local authorities, whoever followed this situation from, meaning from the beginning of the reform, can't be amnested, are guilty, what counterpart Nović already mentioned, but in my understanding at least in the first stage, because I remember well I was in various terms, the most responsible international community that ordered, simply brought this kind of reform. The example is, why do I claim this, whether people from the international community are sitting here, that 30 are then and could not have changed anything. I was one of the participants, and why am I reporting here today, using Mr Tegeltija's presence here, the president of VSTV, not to mention some details of this report, but one specific issue that is very deep, and in 2004 or 2005, it seems to me that in both homes, where I was one of the participants, we agreed on one issue, which concerns the issues of the Brcko District. Why am I talking about this? There are 15 delegates here, two of us, Bosić didn't mention it, he's from the District, I'm from Brcko, you're all more equal than just the two of us aren't equal to you, here's the justice reform. Why? So because everyone, and they should all be the same before the law, this is about a school case of human rights violations of a certain number of citizens, not by nationality, but by the citizens of the Brcko District. How? So both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska, you have two degrees, whether it was municipal, then cantonal or cantonal, and so on, the Supreme in Republika Srpska is also..., and, but there is something called, if nothing else, the extraordinary legal remedy Supreme Court is one and the other and it is making certain adjustments. We in the Brcko district have no place to get out of that space, and imagine, it's a small space, still everybody there, you're locked up if the judges, at the end of the day, we all know, they're all living people, if you object to someone you're done with, you don't get out. The only thing that happens is in case you can break human rights, conventions, etc. through the BiH Constitutional Court. To Strasbourg. Now I'm asking you, is that reform? It's a basic violation of human rights. And why am I saying this? I am from several aspects of this reform that I am painting and appealing to the VSTV president to try to find a solution in future reforms. Now reforms mention the Supreme Court that, however, there will be political disagreements, but however someone should be found... and we were agreed to change both homes, the Criminal Law then. You know who stopped us, because from Brcko and I was directly involved in the OHR, we were stopped by the head of the Legal Service at OHR then, for nothing, by Parliament. That's why I'm saying, we can't amnesty most of the guilt or the international community, and then later it turns into what... In order not to spread the subject, I consider whoever criticises the judiciary like this to be right, but it's a very classy question. Secondly, since I have participated in the same, on the same issue, this, whether in this or that parliament, the issue is mentioned here by colleagues Bosić and colleagues Nović, but in different, the issue of voting. I really do, I have to ask you, no matter how much I've had experience in this, but I'm new here now, so you can answer me. So far I know how many times I've participated in the formal-law, formal-legal speaking, there's never been a vote, namely this has always been accepted to knowledge, and I know that the argument at the beginning of OHR was given, it wasn't given by VSTV, but we tried once, and we asked, we'll vote, so you do whatever you want. Well, if it was an interpretation of OHR representatives, you can't because it's not, you're affecting the judiciary, etc. etc. For these reasons I may be explained, I-I-I-I-I-I know this is, and now that I hear the commission vote yesterday, now, my colleague Bosić says-- I'm going to vote against, I'm in a dilemma right now thinking there's no voting at all, but there's a debate, there's suggestions, and why I don't have to... vote for me. So this House has the capacity, I mean the House of People, and I'm talking about the Parliamentary Assembly, and the House of Representatives, what we're saying today, and every time we talk, it should be a very strong suggestion to the VSTV how to behave, that's one kind of thing. The second, who defends us, here, one home and another, that our tools are legislation, which forbids us to change laws, to agree, etc. Nobody. So, uh, I don't know if anyone's gonna answer this question to me, I mean I'm in a voting dilemma, because we haven't done it so far. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u201	Thank you, colleague Jusufović. 31 The next one applied for discussion, a colleague of Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u202	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests. So I was actually thinking if there's any point in discussing it, but I'm going to say a few words about the report for 2017 and 2018. I fear the way we treat the problems that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually about parliamentary autism. The Parliament, which is considering whether the report of any legislative body will discuss, take note of it, says that Parliament does not really want any competence and that it puts the judiciary itself in the centre of alienated power without any self-criticity. Everyone agrees the situation isn't good, right? And when we enter the reasons why it's not good, we see that there is no willingness to deal with this problem in a way that people benefit from within the country. It is difficult for a country where parliament sees the judiciary as..... and that the degree of resistance to judicial reform is measured whether we will receive knowledge or not to receive the report's knowledge. When you open a website of judicial institutions, you've received knowledge. And receiving the report does not mean being satisfied with the situation in the judiciary, as it does not mean. But it is Parliament's responsibility to say whether or not we are discussing what the report is, is aware that we must enter into reform and see what our role is in reforming the judicial system. I didn't see anyone talking about the report today, which is the subject of whether we will receive knowledge or not. So, people delivered a technically correct report on what is happening in institutions and so when you take page 41 and where it is said, it is said that the efficiency of the judicial system – in 2011 the case was 151,482, in 2017 71,517, so it was reduced by 53%. In 2011, the number of cases over two years of age was 44,432, in 2018. – 8.202 and in 2011 the number of cases older than 10 years was 8,079, and in 2017. - 674. So it's a state, people wrote, we had so many objects, so much is solved, so much is left. And when you read the report, it says -- there are..., number of 52 judges in the Court of Justice of BiH. The very difference that remains, which is unsolved, when you add it all together, is about 80,393 cases, if the judge's norm has been 155 cases a year, so it takes almost 11 years to solve these cases on the assumption that no new one in 11 years comes to judicial institutions. What does that say about us Parliamentarians? When it came to the transition of the Register Office and when I made the decision then to increase the number of perpetrators, then I experienced public criticism enormously, as I help these institutions. It's like institutions that aren't the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, what can we do to help such a judiciary as parliamentarians until it steps in a reform that will be a reform that we are implementing within Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have a feeling that many are waiting for a reform that will be introduced into Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it's a waste of time. People from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council say reform is necessary. They're calling for reform, and we say no, we won't take it any further. Is reforming the judiciary just a human policy that politicians would like to deal with? Is that all about judicial reform? We read both domestic and international reports and we have a report from our institution. So, is there a way? If this year we as parliamentarians discuss and know that there are 80,000 other cases from 10 to 2 years, should we say whether there is political readiness, the number of judges should be increased by double, so that people are satisfied, that they do not wait 10 or 5 years. The budget should also be increased by double. Of course, judicial reform is also asking for a budget, do you think that those who deal with judicial reform outside are doing it for nothing. A reform that doesn't cost anything and doesn't work, every one, isn't professional, doesn't ask for a professional approach. So there's a lot of dilemma here, but I'm asking you as colleagues that we get into the essence. One is a report that we are satisfied with or dissatisfied with, and the other is judicial reform. I have a feeling that the measure towards the judiciary, Parliament which is, for me is greater autism that I have seen, that 32 does not wish, that then you will not even read the report. So that's what it says about us, not about justice. If we are willing to deal with reforming the judicial system, no one is defending Parliament from finding its own corner, or from being a judiciary independent, but from coming to what is needed in this country. I have a feeling that by waiting for the reform to come from somewhere, we're turning the judiciary into... and I'm afraid we'll get something again that we won't be satisfied with if we don't participate in those solutions. And so my task is that Parliament, therefore my proposal, to find our role in what is called reform of judicial institutions, and that this report, if we can change, we change, but here we have nothing to change, here people have said how many cases, how many perpetrators, how many norms they have left to solve. And they ask Parliament, I get it that way, here are the gentlemen of the norm 155, we can't go beyond norm. What is Parliament's response? Get the number of the judges. If you get the judge's number, go ahead and get the budget. We're making a budget, where our role is. If we're not gonna take the report, if we have the strength to tell you the budget is zero for next year, does anyone have the strength to say it, I'm asking us to get serious about this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u203	Thank you, fellow Špirić. A fellow official, Miletić, signed up for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u204	Thank you very much, President. First, let me thank you, Mr. Tegelty, for being here today. I'm really going to try not to be personal in any way and please don't get me that way. I really don't want to repeat myself, with most or most of the content, I agree, especially with Mr. Nović's discussion, I just have this one correction of the wrong assumption that I want to say something about, and I answered first of all for a reason to ask you a question. In fact, I am, like most citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not saying this in a populist sense, really unsatisfactory because the results of our courts and our prosecutions are very modest. I was just asked by the press, among other things, by the way that I was running away from anyone to apologize for the expression, by the way, I can't understand that from the '17th to this year, the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office and the Court and the VSTV mean they spend around 220 million KM. When you take what they're including what Mr. Nović was talking about, how many people were brought in, heard, processed on the basis of war crimes, terrorism, organised crime, white collar criminals that I'm not even talking about, about corruption, about miracles, there's nothing going on here, until we can't solve the murders of these two guys, this Dragičević and this unfortunate Memić, I can't figure it out, so I can't. Perhaps Mr. Nović and I have been professionally frustrated since we've worked in this business for many years, so maybe we understand that in another way, but please, what do we expect from you, at least me? We expect you to establish the first system of such responsibility that you are truly independent. But that doesn't mean what a colleague, among other things, Špirić says, who's independent, who can't give us anything, so it's not about that. This is about coming up with more recent solutions to the mechanism of positive political influence on your work, not the negative. Now, it's gonna look like I'm defending you. You're here between hammers and anvils. In what way? Perception of the public or citizens, I speak exclusively of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, that every political party has its prosecutor there. You could have read that in dozens of media, dozens of portals, and it's really an inappropriate situation. In my opinion, where should we work in the future? So, I'm still standing on the stand even though the various political parties particularly in the House of Representatives consider, given 33 that in a certain way it was played by the Law on VSTV, that the House of Representatives or the House of People should be elected, I don't know, here's the chief prosecutor. I'm not for it, I think that you still need to stay independent and that you're responsible as a person to fight for that independence. It's my personal opinion, I'm talking about VSTV as an organ. It's the first thing, the second thing responsibility and collective and individual, the third thing, the criteria for selecting people who work in any organ, they have to be sharpened. When you see statistics, what Mr. Špirić said is correct. Report as a report, he's okay in technical terms. When you see how many lawsuits there have been against prosecutors and judges, you're right to be scared. So this is a very large number or a large percentage that people, I don't say, do illegal things, make different violations, here even they are structured and even by certain criminal acts. The fourth thing, so we have to make it possible for politics to make some correlation in, that we simply work with you, that we help you, you help us, and ultimately we will all help the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina together. In this regard, Mrs. Majkić asked you, I would ask you to explain this to me, given that contradictory information about this famous dialogue on the restructuring or reform of the VSTV. He allegedly started three years ago, so whoever's formed a naka task force, whether it exists or doesn't exist within the Justice Department, I really don't know, I don't want to speculate, but I heard it even though it exists to meet once. On your website, I read that you have a Legislative Commission, so please, if you're saying to answer my question, are you yourself in the making of a new VSTV law? If you're doing it yourself or you're doing it in cooperation with the Justice Department, let's just see, what Mr. Nović said, how do we get all this off the ground? And to correct Mr. Nović, what you're saying is true, I love those folk sayings about glory, but it's possible that Father is not right here, too, because politics has created such a state that we've tied people's hands. What Mr. Špirić says, let's say, here, I'm going to take an example of Canton of Sarajevo's prosecution, it's impossible for that number of prosecutors to complete the cases they have there. If politics doesn't give them money for it, for free, these items will stand there for 10, 15 years, and then they select them, especially those who are the bearers of various political functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first they push themselves into a drawer, I have hundreds of examples for you. What will I ask you? Indeed, here is, perhaps this is a good opportunity to talk, what someone said, to open a dialogue and I hope that we will eventually come up with a solution that will first and foremost be established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, even if a piece of justice with which all citizens will be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u205	Thank you, colleague Miletić. The next one checked in with his colleague, Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. College members, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. You could really talk about this for a long and wide time. Each of us has an opinion, each of us has a vision, but the fact that there are many problems and we need to solve them and the fact is that there is our responsibility. So, and the responsibility of the legislative authority, no matter what we think. When the VSTV was established, it was set up to be a kind of regulator of the entire justice system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that right, did they make it? I don't think they're, for many reasons, being subjective, 34 you're objective. Some shifts are certainly made and should not now say that nothing is wrong, that everything is bad and that everything should be changed completely from the foundation. Surely not, however, in my opinion, the steps that have been made are not really enough and they should be the basic mission that VSTV has, and that is the establishment of an impartial, independent, professional, if you want both objective and particularly responsible judiciary, I would say, although such a term does not exist in the law, is the responsibility of something that has been heard here on several occasions by these colleagues who have already spoken before me. I think we should all have a responsibility, but that responsibility has to be regulated legitimately. I don't think that we should be some kind of special hat over the judiciary in the sense that we're keeping some kind of flash, away from that, but that we don't have much closer contact, that we don't have much closer co-operation with the judiciary as a legislative authority, and I also think the executive power, I think we should, I think we should, and we should work on that. First and foremost, here it has been mentioned several times, it is the Law on VSTV. It's been a long time talking about this law, and I don't think it's supposed to be VSTV, they need to make a contribution, they need to say where they think the situation needs to be restored, but they know who's creating the law. It's the executive and legislative authority, so I see a good part of our responsibility here. But no matter how we turn around, this VSTV is being convened before a lot of what doesn't necessarily mean they're the sole culprits. Whatever happens in the judiciary, therefore, in the prosecution court, in any part of our country, this is, in a certain way, connoted to the VSTV through the perception of our public. You didn't do enough, you didn't name the most capable personnel, the most professional personnel, etc., etc. And there were these problems, I personally know, and I asked some questions from an envoy in '17. year etc., but I think that we no longer have time and that if we think, and we are going very seriously on the European path, the first and the fundamental thing is to continue to reform the judiciary. In that sense, I really think that we must be far more responsible ourselves, that we ourselves must take part of responsibility, and the VSTV certainly can do better, surely more and need more because I really think, not only is this perception of the public such that we have not really made nearly enough steps in our judiciary, that we are still not all equal before the law, that there is still no rule of law and rule of law, and that is something that we must achieve if we want to walk this European way and as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u207	Thank you, colleague Čolak. Since there are no more reports to discuss... A kolega of Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u208	...unbiased, professional, effective in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, and nationalally balanced, and judges and prosecutors should be people of integrity, integrity and trust. I think unfortunately there's a consensus from an ordinary man so through domestic to foreign experts that in our judiciary it's not like that. It cannot be amnested by someone who opposes the conduct of the Constitutional Court's verdicts. You can't have, here's what Mrs. Majkić mentioned today, a wave of war crimes trials for members of a nation. So what did you do before that? What kind of waves are these, or have you amnested someone for a decade, two, or are you now being persecuted? You can't have affairs that don't break up, that stay that way to poison away, uh, the public. As I said, everything in this country needs to be nationalally balanced, it can't happen that the top of justice can be without the representatives of a nation. They're not incompetent people from one nation to be at the top of justice. So, as Mr. Nović said, it's kind of pointless to say that we didn't notice something when it came to our table, here, but unfortunately it's the only way to say 35 that we disagree with the situation in the judiciary. So I insist that today be voted no matter how meaningful or pointless, that in such a way as the House of Representatives send, here's a message like this. That we are not satisfied, that the situation should be different, that a strong reform of the judiciary is needed.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u209	Thank you very much, colleague Izetbegović. As there are no more applications, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Now I'm going to ask you, Mr. Tegeltija, since you didn't speak at the beginning, that both your opening part and your comment on everything you've heard you say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Vice-President, distinguished delegates. At first, I'd like to welcome you in front of the VSTS members and in my personal name. I have to be honest, today was a pleasure to be present for this debate. I have been president of the VSTS for six years and I have not had the opportunity to attend such a debate on the VSTS report, which is really the way it should be. Why are we delivering reports? Just to show that partner relationship at those sessions, to hear it, to hear it. Not receiving knowledge means that we don't talk, and that's why it's pointless for me too, because then we don't talk, then we don't have partnerships. If we all want reform, and we will, then we have to do it partnerly. The responsibility, of course, is that both on the VSTS and on me personally as president, as the head of the institution, but the responsibility for judicial reform is not only on the Council, it is also on parliaments, it is also on the executive authority that should prepare the materials for Parliament. I'll try to answer all your questions. At first I want to say that... what the distinguished delegate Sredoje Nović said today at this session. It's the same attitude as me and probably all the members of the Council when it comes to the judiciary, when it comes to judicial reform. Only in partnership can we improve the system. But I'll really try to respect all of you and every question you've asked here, I answer. Dušanka's Majkić, the delegate, has asked a few questions. One refers to the constitutional category. The VSTS is in different status than other judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it, unlike these Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, was created by an agreed transfer of jurisdiction and passed the Law from both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly on the VSTS. Therefore, I will tie this to the question of the respected delegate Bosić, when I said that Parliament was not commanded by the VSTS, I only said what was in the Law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. If this Parliamentary Assembly adopts a different law, I will have no problem saying that the matter is different. Of course, when I say she's not in charge, doesn't mean I don't want to be partners, we're here to discuss all the issues and that's why we're delivering these reports. And the purpose of informing Parliament is precisely to take advantage of these sessions, to discuss problems and to improve the system because whatever it is has room for improvement. The justice system is far from ideal, from perfect and far from making mistakes. The budget of the courts, it is true that the BiH Court budget is far higher than all the budgets of the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The conditions of the BiH Court's work are at European level and even higher than some European countries. By contrast, courts in both Republika Srpska and the Federation live and work in much more difficult conditions. I guess those conditions, I guess, in an infrastructure sense, have improved significantly over the last few years. The judiciary in the Republika Srpska entity and in the 36th Federation of BiH deals with a much wider diaposone of cases than the BiH Court deals, they deal with civil, administrative, etc. Things with a much larger number of cases and of course they are burdened with a much larger number of cases and given such a great burden, they are indeed solving a far greater number of cases than the BiH Court of Justice is dealing with, let's say, conditionally speaking, the most difficult cases, war crimes, organised crime, etc. It is true that when we compare all other judiciarys, there are four judiciarys under one hat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska, the Federation, the Brcko District and at BiH level. At present, the situation is such that in Republika Srpska right now, it could be said conditionally, the best condition. In the Federation, the situation is different because we have a Cantonal Court problem in Sarajevo that really has an excessive period of waiting in the Cantonal Court from five to six years of completion by appeal and this significantly slows the settlement of cases in the Federation. The BiH Court of Justice, the problem is known, it does not exist, there is no devoluntivity, there is no court of appeal to decide by appeal on first-degree judgments and therefore, in that Court, the same court decides both in the first and second stages, which does not meet the general principles of devolunity. The revision of the VSTV Act you asked me about, while also asking the distinguished delegate Miletić. The VSTS has already submitted an initiative to amend the VSTS Act in 2017, it submitted on the basis of a Pierre Review recommendation, that is. Pierre Review is a recommendation from the European Commission and we have not dealt with political issues... We have dealt with those issues already regulated by the Law, only improving them in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, and that is where we have limited ourselves. So, what we've suggested based on the Pierre Review recommendation has no political connotation, except for the opening part where the recommendations of the Venice Commission are. When it comes to this law to say immediately to the initiative, it is not a final document, we have given it as our initiative and we participate actively in the process of structural dialogue, but also in the process of making this new Bill Proposal... I know where the Labour Group of the Ministry of Justice on this Law and we are part of this working group. Republika Srpska is also involved in the work of the task force. For other issues concerning the work of the task force, Mr Miletić, the minister of justice is the address. The formal draftr of the budget, so we here only have a recommendation that has been dragging on for 15 years to make the distribution of funds because we have a much clearer picture by different courts who need more than they need, because all courts know when they're looking for budgets, they're looking for their maximums, then the Justice Department assigns these budgets to courts in the prosecutions depending on what they're looking for. We thought this would improve the system because we could do better dispersion of funds, not disrupting entity jurisdiction or, uh, Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to this misunderstanding, Mr. Bosić, when I said the lack of understanding of the functioning of the division of power, I didn't mean all MPs but some, I said, some MPs in the House of Representatives based on their statements made at this House. It's my belief that I have the right, I, I think I understand the division of power well, and I don't think that the judiciary is a system that should be without responsibility, exactly the opposite, and in this revision of the law, we have foreseen mechanisms for establishing a certain kind of responsibility. After all, if Parliament considers it necessary to have control over the judiciary, it is he who passed the law. My legalist is to respect that law which is currently in force, and under that law Parliament does not have an arduous role over the judiciary and I can understand that some MPs would do it by me, but I cannot say what is not true. That is how it is now and this Parliament has adopted it. I told you about receiving to know that it is a mechanism that, if Parliament does not receive knowledge, then it makes it impossible for us to agree on what is contained, to disagree, but in order for 37 to come to a solution, we need to talk and I think it's a matter of elemental, here, I'm talking here, you've got these documents, and now you're saying – we didn't take it into knowledge. Then who was I talking to? You just didn't get along with me? The relationship between the judiciary and police is a very important issue, one of the most important, especially in the section of the fight against corruption and organised crime and all other types of crime, and that is the main, main problem, the criminal judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina right now. The main problem is the lack of adequate results in the fight against corruption and organised crime. That link is weakened, he's weak and, I'd say, almost dysfunctional. I'm afraid there's guilt on both sides, and the DA's office and the police. I don't want anyone to... responsibilities. Nor do prosecutors take enough of the initiative provided for them by this Act, and I fear that once the police, all the police in Bosnia and Herzegovina, forget that they are the police, so... they are waiting for the prosecution to order them to do something. They remain the police, they still have internal affairs laws, they have their operational and tactical powers that should be used in full capacity because it is interesting that the same police when it comes to ordinary crime know very well what to do. The problem arises in these slightly more complex crimes when they're just waiting for something to be ordered and that's, I'd say, for one and the other, the prosecutors are hiding behind the police, and the police behind the prosecution, and we end up with one bad result for everyone. I'm sorry, here, I'm trying to answer everything. The efficiency is like you said. I think that, at least in terms of efficiency, we have achieved significant results and this can be seen from these reports, according to the number of pending cases that were currently and what they were like a year, two, five or ten years ago. About the case, Dragičević, Memić, I really can't speak here, these are living items that last in court and in the Prosecutor's Office and everything I would say here would come out of those competences of mine. I'm stressing, I'm not representing a report here by any court, no prosecution, but the VSTS, and I'm asking it to be understood that way. I hope, for the sake of time, I have to answer Mr Izetbegović's questions, which is to conclude that the summit of the judiciary is without a representative of a nation, I assume he means the representatives of the Bosniak people, but that is not an accurate finding. Within the BiH judiciary, there are eight of the most important functions that we treat as well as those that are being stabbed, which are being treated in all our documents. Of the quiet eight, there are Bošnjak, two Srbin, one Hrvat, two others, and one position has not yet been filled. It is true that at the level, in the VSTS itself, three leading positions, president and two vice presidents, I am a Srbin, we have one Bošnjak as vice president and one Hrvat. The chief... Prosecutor of the Council and his deputy are Bošnjak, VSTV Secretariat Director and his deputy are Bošnjak and I don't think there is really room to talk about any under quotes, ethnic cleansing, Bošnjak from the Bosnia and Herzegovina judiciary. Unfortunately, such perception has been created, but it does not really have its basis in arguments. And this wave of reductions, the wave of trials of members of a nation, I really can't talk about those categories. As far as I'm concerned, the war crime is a war crime, the perpetrator of a war crime is the perpetrator of a war crime, the victim is the victim. All victims must be treated equally, all criminals should be treated equally. It's the only principle I stand for, and when someone's accused, that's what I as VSTS president can't influence.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u211	Thank you for this comprehensive comment on the report. 38 Since we're discussing...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u212	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u213	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u214	So, I didn't mention this wave, but it's by other colleagues, but it's a strange coincidence that we Bošnjak are left without a representative in the BiH Court of Justice, and that's when the trial wave starts for the Bosniak officers. So, it's a strange coincidence, and some in Bosnia and Herzegovina recognize it, welcoming what it is like, Mr. Tegeltija. So I'm not the one who found that thing, it's, like, one general place.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u215	Okay. Thank you, colleague Izetbegović. We've closed the debate. I now propose, in accordance with our agreement, that we unite the debate on these two agenda points, that there was a report for '19 as well. We could have united it together, because as we led the debates, they were of general character mostly. As far as these doubts of language standards are concerned, whether we receive something or do not receive knowledge, we have been accessing all reports, information, from a large number of institutions for ten years, and today we still have institutions on the agenda where we will behave, both in one and another House. We can discuss at the College and see how to comply with the law and our rules of procedure to hold a debate in the future without having a form of a statement. However, as soon as the form of a plea is in favour, against and abstention, we will follow it today, because this session is so arranged and scheduled. So I'm asking you now to come back on the agenda, since we've eaten, let me say, the debate, it seems to me, and it's made quality. Point 8 was the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2017. We're voting on this report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 15 – for no one, against 6, abstention 9. The Federation of BiH – 5 versus, 5 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 1 versus, 5 abstentions. There is no general majority so that we can now say what is linguistically controversial, this report that we really analyzed today basically did not receive knowledge, so whatever that means in the language sense of the word. Thank you very much. Now we move on to point nine. – Annual Report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-1726/19 of 30. Nine. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The debate is over. Please initiate voting procedure in the same way. Thank you very much. At present 15 – for no one, against 6 abstentions 9. Federation of BiH – 5 against, abstentions 5. Republika Srpska – 1 versus, 4 abstentions. There is no general majority, so the conclusion is similar to the points 8, the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2018 was not received. 39 Thank you as rapporteur and your associates. We move to the next item of the agenda, item 10, Ad. Ten. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-50-19-2568/18 of 27. 11. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission has accepted this report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 3rd session on 16 January this year. I give my word to Mr. Čolak, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u217	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u218	No, thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u219	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u220	There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this report. Niko one checked in. I'll wait a second, two. I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. We are voting on the Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 14 – 12.2 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's also a general, there's an entity majority. I agree, the report on the application of uniform rules for the making of legal rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions has been adopted. We're going to the 11th of today's agenda, Ad. 11. Special report on the appearance, use and protection of national, or official characteristics/signs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01-50-19-49/19 of 3. 1. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 40 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission that accepted this report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 3rd session on 16 January this year. I give my word to Mr. Čolak, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u222	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u223	No, thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u224	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u225	There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this report. No Niko's answering their word, and I don't feel like anyone's going to sign up. We're closing the debate. Please initiate voting procedure on the special report on the appearance, use and protection of national or official features/signs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. At present 14 – for 13.1 v. Federation of BiH – 10, all for. Republika Srpska – 3 for, 1 against. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that a special report on the appearance, use and protection of national or official features/signs in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to point 12, Ad.12. Report on the work of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-1532/19 of 26/08/2019. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The board supported the report. The Commission also adopted the following conclusion: It is asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide information on how much money has been paid out of the BiH institutions' budget for the costs of lawyers in criminal and other proceedings, i.e. for compensation for staying in detention of persons deprived of liberty who have been legally released in criminal proceedings, and how much money has been paid on the basis of the European Court's rulings of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg for compensation for breach of Article 41 6. European Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time). At the 3rd session held on 16 January this year, the House of Representatives adopted the Report with an additional conclusion. I give the word again to Mr. Čolak, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u227	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u228	There isn't. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u229	The Honorable President, the Honorable Members of the College, the Honorable Representatives. I'll just be brief, I think it would be important in this reporting period to underline a few things. Three hundred cases totaling 90 million KM have been resolved in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the same period against Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u230	I beg your pardon, may we... the gentleman present after... when we ask some questions, that there may be no such questions, so he must return. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u231	We can do that if it suits you like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u232	Please, we're talking about the report, we have all the data you're talking about right now, but we need to talk about something. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u233	Here's your initiative accepted. [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u234	I must say, as a longtime parliamentarian, a little while when the Parliamentary Assembly in both of her homes was satisfied with the reports of this institution. Well, in order not to be too strict in the grade, the first thing I did was look at how the others were doing, so I looked at, say, what kind of 42 is the Attorney General's Office's report on the work done by the Serbian Law Department and I saw one substantial, large, large, detailed document on almost 90 pages. Then I looked at some of the municipalities in the Federation doing reports on the work of the Ombudsman, and I also saw one seriousness that was not met when it came to the BiH Ombudsman's report. Many of the problems that have been identified and that has been repeated for years, they repeat themselves every year and apparently the pravobranilaštvo doesn't have any ambition to change that. But here's, let's say, two cases that we could talk about here, in part of the report that refers to so-called. military property, he said, stands -- we propose that the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH propose, in co-operation with the competent institutions, also in the legislative procedure of adopting legislation that will finally regulate state property status. Who in this country doesn't know what's going on on the state property plan, so-called? The same attitude was repeated in the 2017 Report. We could say a lot, but to begin with, to remind the Ombudsman, that the territory of Republika Srpska was established by the Dayton Peace Agreement, where Republika Srpska is carrying out legislative, executive and judicial power, I guess we don't have to talk about it. As for the assets of the former Yugoslavia under the Succession Agreement, which has been concluded, as you know, it seems to me in 2001, between the states that were created by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, all assets belong to entities, meaning Republika Srpska and the Federation. The exemption is the only private property which is the subject of Annex G and of that Agreement and that property belongs to the rightholder no matter where it was located. Now, it's not like the pravobranilaštvo doesn't know that the State Property Commission, whose task was to prepare this law on the distribution of assets under a ban, in two terms, for almost 10 years, tried to reach that law and failed. Can the executive and legislative authority pass any law without the necessary agreement between the three peoples who live here? Why didn't we get the necessary majority? Well, because they are representatives of the Federation, they advocated that in addition to the property that is banned and all other assets be owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which we can't accept, because it doesn't fit the laws and the Constitution. When it comes to perspective military property, it's a special case. Republika Srpska expressed a clear position there, all that is needed by the Armed Forces will be given for use, but the moment it is unspective and unnecessary it returns to the one from whom it was taken. However, it also did not help what on our part has been an objection to BiH's defence that in the previous period it has launched countless procedures for recording property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the opposite of both the Constitution and the law and our position on this is well known. Therefore, the involvement of the pravobranilaštvo General in unconstitutional and illegal actions in this process on our part can never be accepted. Another thing I would also like to comment on is the protection and return of property remaining in the former Yugoslavia, in this case it is now referring to Croatia, which has passed a new Law on State Property Management, where it could be seen the role of BiH's Attorney General there is none. And what could the D.A. do? To help coordinate the resolution of the issue. The issue cannot be resolved without those who possess it and whose property it is, and the pravobranilaštvo shows no interest in it. Yes, that's just two reasons why this report doesn't deserve to be supported, and I hope that the D.A. will, on the basis of this all, draw us a conclusion, to look a little bit at how others are doing these reports and to make one quality and more comprehensive and much more useful report than we've ever received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u235	Thank you, colleague Majkić. For correcting the wrong quote or replica, counterpart Bećirović applied. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u236	Mr. Chairman, for the sake of the public, and also a stenogram from this session of the House of Peoples, we are obliged to point out a few facts, it would not be good to send such a message to the public, and it simply does not stand. Namely, an esteemed colleague stated that after the disolution of the former SFRY, all assets belonged to the entities, it simply was not true. If there's any need for written evidence to be attached and to prove it, it's no problem at all. Less bh. The entity tried to resolve it in such a way, it seems to me whether it was in 2009 or 2010, this case, by the appeal of the rickets, seems to me, Sulejman Tihić went to the Constitutional Court of BiH and the BiH Constitutional Court made his decision in which he clearly stated something else on the basis of the facts of what my predecessor is talking about, so we have it in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u237	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. Mr Jusufović has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u238	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u240	I will apologize to you, just one moment, since our system is not working, we have a signed replica, which is not registered, so just excuse Mr. Jusufović for one moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u241	Which I didn't realize, what it is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u242	An apology to you now, once again, Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Nikola Špirić, according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u243	I apologize, so I just, just a brief chairman. So I would pray at least when we're in this House that the names of the country where we live and the constituent parts, we refer to entities as they're called. Less bh. Entity, I didn't hear there was, there's Republika Srpska and the Federation. I ask you when you want to send us offensive messages, don't wrap it up, say what you think, but it's not correct, and if someone thinks it builds the structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina in deep error. So, I ask that the terms that are in accordance with the law and the Constitution be used in this House. Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u244	Thank you. Replication on the line, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u245	So here I call on my colleague Špirić and his colleagues to follow what he was talking about in principle and to start speaking from today to work in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it stands in the Constitution, without using an unconstitutional term – the joint institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u246	Thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me one more time, Mr. Jusufović, you're with your debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to this institution on several occasions and at different levels, I will remain consistent with myself and the argument that, if it were time and seven days to explain why I have a critical relationship with this institution, anywhere where, where I am in progress, from the Brcko District, the Federation and here this institution, I have a clear critical relationship that this institution is not doing its job well. My argument is the opposite, she's only starting with a colleague of Majkićka's when we listen, she's in part commended that they had some initiative for, and I'm just relying on that finding I'm saying that this institution didn't do anything she needed to do. Why didn't she get more involved, here's when we talk about military property, she didn't do the job, it's state property and there's no dilemma, I don't think I'm going to repeat what my colleague said about interpreting what state property is, it's, depending on what angle you're looking at. I absolutely the same, uh, my argument is like my colleagues Bećirović, who has a legal basis, and not only do we want to say it or not. Secondly, the defenders, the very institution that is the attorney of the state, where she played that role, this one, and here, look who are all huge, not to say, billions in neighbouring countries, which is the institution struggled to bring that property back to Bosnia and Herzegovina, or to defend it anywhere. If you are dealing with particularly deep things then you will see in different reports how this institution is going on certain alignments after court rulings, where it goes into very harmful etc. etc. contracts. The last thing she's got, here's to not spreading, I'm saying I'm unhappy in general, because I don't think she's as an institution at all justified her role is an example as far as she's come with, we've got as many judicial convictions as you want, with military property enrollment. However, as in any institution, even here at this level, the question arises where, in which, how can I say, and even by national and then execute or not execute it, depends on who they will listen to, whether entities or others will listen to it. For these reasons absolutely regarding this point, I will not be to accept...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u248	Okay, thank you, colleague Jusufović. And there are no more discussions on this point. We're closing the debate. 45 And now I will ask Mr. Ljubić to take his introduced consideration and with the possibility to answer the open questions raised here to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u249	I thank the Honorable President. I'll still refrain from using the hard words here, though I've heard a lot of hard words here, but unargumented. I will return to what I said again, it was settled in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 90m KM case, and against Bosnia and Herzegovina in the amount of 2.5m converting marks. I underline this on purpose because it dominates the structure of the subject of three types of objects. They're objects of the so-called. Judges and Prosecutors of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, so-called A fee. We have already repeatedly warned the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly about the need to pass a new law on salaries and fees of judges and prosecutors and staff in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, as you will see in 2019 that this will be a drastically larger amount, and these are cases, so that they are lost in advance. The second group of shipments are lawsuits against the Department of Defense, so-called The act, and that's where we suggest we take a stand. And the third is unfounded detention. Analyzing this third one, we can't say that prosecutors don't need to use this detention as... but we also think that detention as the most difficult measure and used in exceptional cases is very easy and the law often pronounced and then slowly take and seek evidence and everything else and ultimately normally stick to a man for 4 years in prison and normally needs compensation. If I were a judge myself, I'd be judgmental even bigger. That is why we propose, so these three groups of cases are 80% lost against Bosnia and Herzegovina. We propose that the Parliamentary Assembly, together with the Council of Ministers, prepare and adopt this final law on salaries and remuneration of persons employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions. We with the Ministry will try to resolve this issue. Now, as far as we're concerned, one of our proposals and suggestions is a matter of state property. We suggest we finally start talking about the adoption of a law on state property. I can point out here clearly and loudly, in 2018 neither military property nor military property was discussed,... we have recorded property on Bosnia and Herzegovina what the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina bought in both entities, and it is not disputed. This is about issues concerning citizens, because they are related to solving a large number of property-legal cases in relation to citizens related to, building on building land and other state-owned property, where it is simply not possible to solve. We have a problem and we're solving it, let me tell you, as we manage, here and it's about building a highway through Bosnia and Herzegovina, because if we just went all the way to the end by the letter of what it says, we could simply stop the works with a good number of shares, and we asked the Council of Ministers on several occasions to resolve this issue. So now you'd move on to these answers, so we haven't discussed the issue of military property this year. Secondly, we don't need anyone calling us for a book, we don't book property of any kind, we file a request, we're in charge when the institution turns to us to do, to file. As for property in other countries, specifically as regards property in Croatia, we had the conclusion of the BiH presidency and we started to act on it. It said that in collaboration with the Federation of BiH Privatisation Agency and with Republika Srpska's Investment and Development Bank, which plays the role of the agency, we would like to discuss these issues. On one ten of the questions we had, from Republika Srpska, they never wanted to answer that, because they said they had no agreement, they do not have the support of the minister. We held a meeting with the Federation of BiH Privatisation Agency where they made it clear to us in the rest, what do you have to do with entity property, company property, canton property, etc. You stick to Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets. 46 I can say that we have initiated certain procedures for property, which is entered into Bosnia and Herzegovina, we lead them. But we say again, we don't think we should run away from this issue, is it going to make everyday life easier for the citizens of any entity. Because here I think there are problems in the entity of Republika Srpska and the entity of the Federation of BiH. And as for the stories of some alignments here, I can tell you that there was very little, unfortunately, alignment. I believe that in many of these cases it would be much better to settle things peacefully than to go further and to generate additional costs. I can say that in cooperation with the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, we have managed to resolve a number of judges and prosecutors' cases at least that we have no costs and no interest. Most of the time, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u250	Nothing, thank you. Okay, here's a comment about the Department's work report for 2018. Since we had a conclusion that I read to you by our commission. First we will plead and vote on the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Please initiate the voting procedure, so we vote on the conclusion first. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] On the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, yes. Thank you very much. Attending 13 - for 11, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for. It has a general, entity majority and I conclude that the Constitutional Commission of the People's House has been adopted. Now let's start the voting procedure on the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2018. Thank you very much. At present 13 – for 8, against 4.1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 against. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u252	You can't get along because you don't have a third member of the College, later... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u253	Thank you very much. We later declare this at the next sessions. Moving to the point of today's 13th agenda, 47 Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the General Elections 2018 and the Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2018, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1741/19 of 02.10.19. You have received the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of the People, the Commission has received knowledge of the Report, which has handed over to the House of the Peoples a report to receive knowledge. The House of Representatives at the 3rd session, held on 16 January, did not adopt this report on the implementation of the 2018 elections and the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission. I give my word to Mr. Čolak, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, if there is any need. Mr. Bariša has no need. Thank you. I'm giving a word to the rapporteur, if there's any need or ultimately, that after the debate, we might do better. Thank you. I'm opening a hearing on these reports. Mr. Denis Bećirović applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u255	Mr Chairman, within the framework of this Central Election Commission Report, relating to 2018, I will skip this part of the discussion concerning suspicions, reasonable doubts and other allegations of political parties, media etc. on numerous electoral malfeasances, some say also thefts in the 2018 General Elections. I won't talk about it today, but I want to ask a few questions, and they're about one topic, and if possible, we can get an explanation here from the Central Election Commission. In 2018, according to my knowledge, at the end of August of that year, the electoral commission, i.e. the Central Election Commission of BiH, granted electoral rights to the convicted war criminal and the man responsible for the serious crime at the Tuzlani gate, Novak Đukić. My question is – Who is it and why has allowed this war criminal to receive voting rights in 2018? My question is also: Who in the CEC contacted Đukić? Who specifically prepared the decision in front of the CEC Election Division before the adoption of the CEC? I'm particularly interested in when and how contact was made with Đukić? Since he is a fugitive from justice and whoever did it – has the data been provided afterwards, I am interested in the SIPA, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH? I am particularly interested – Which way has this request been received for the criminal Đukić to be included in the voter's list? And finally, if it is possible for both us and the public to hear – to which address has Đukić been delivered this decision of 28 August 2018?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u256	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Mr. Lazar Prodanović came to the floor. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u257	So, the chairman, my debate will apply and I will try briefly to say, about this large report, which unfortunately we are considering very late, and it is a great pity that we are very close to the upcoming local elections, that is, the date of publication of the upcoming local elections. I believe that the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore both of them at home, should deal with two very important issues in accordance with the competences. One thing is that, if the procedure at the competent home for the, uh, election activities of the new members of the Central Electoral Committee, to which the mandate stands, were to be completed as soon as possible, so as not to enter the electoral process. Another issue concerning amendments, i.e. improving electoral legislation in the section concerning the electoral process, is primarily in line with the recommendations, recommendations that the Central Election Commission has made and recommendations made by the ODIR, namely the Central Media Democratisation Department at the OSCE. I think there are several reasons why it is necessary to improve electoral legislation in the part where there are observations in terms of possible abuses or poor control of the electoral process, which raises doubts in a certain sense about fair and fair elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, great responsibility is borne by the Central Election Commission, which is primarily necessary, it is necessary to do so before the upcoming elections and before this, I hope that it will come to this and we would support any agreement that would.... And another issue that is important, improving the quality of the election boards as a key neural point in this story. The Central Election Commission bears responsibility in this regard in the section relating to, conditionally speaking, possible fictitious involvement of political entities in the electoral process and fully equal participation in election committees as well as the strongest political parties. This is the possibility of strong abuse of this process, and I believe there is no reason for political entities that, in this time of election, and the electoral unit is every local community, to prevent the participation of all those in the distribution of members of polling stations who do not participate in the elections in that constituency, or local community. It is necessary to give equal rights to members, election committees, any political entity that is scraping in a local assembly or council, regardless of the number of members it now has, at least 50%, and all others, including those of 50%, which would give us control of the opposition, or positions by the opposition and a good observation process. And at the same time, seriously address the issue of independent candidates in the elections, that they cannot represent more than one political entity. Disable the candidacy for certain functions if representatives of the so-called "supervised" appear for years. independent candidates who establish doubt as to who is using them, which creates one... process. The remarks of the Central Election Commission on this part of the election board's payment can also be seen as the failure of members of the election boards, can only be explained in a way that the huge inflation of fictitious political entities and that mainly these polling stations, i.e. members of the election committees, are unfulfilled. If we don't do this every extra story, I don't think it's gonna do us any good, I think it's possible to improve this, and I don't think there's an excuse either in the Central Election Commission in terms of extracting political entities in the electoral process that these, therefore, which I have previously stated, which the Central Election Commission, I believe is well aware that these weaknesses are being disabled. To talk now about possible... voting, scanning and others, I think it is too late and in a certain sense impossible and questionable, but this is a question that we can jointly resolve and which are of the interest of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u258	Thank you, fellow Prodanović. Report, I don't see any more, I don't see any interest in reporting, and that concludes the debate. Please vote on the report
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u259	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u260	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u261	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u262	And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Nikić, here you are, since we have just suggested that after the debate, you answer the word. Here you go. On behalf of the Central Election Commission, Mr. Stejpan Nikić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u263	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the presidencies, distinguished envoys, ladies and gentlemen. My colleagues are absent, everyone's on a roundtable in Mostar, and here I am, as the oldest member, in charge of attending yesterday's Constitutional Commission and here today and here at the session. You have received under this is the point, as stated above, our report on the implementation of the General Elections in 2018 and the report on the implementation of the law under the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission from the Election Act, by which these elections were conducted, to the Law on the financing of political parties, the Council of Ministers Act, the part we implement, which you received in time, you could take a good look at all of this. And mine, my date at this point I would ask you, and the chairman, Mr. Šaćirović, has, Bećirović pardoned several questions on which I do not have any indicators here at the moment, but all of this has been recorded and sent to the Central Election Commission, you will get everything, you have asked some five, six questions about Đukić, is that so. I can only say that when the election is called, the candidate list of our checks, certificates and candidates can be complained about by those who consider the Central Election Commission to have made a mistake. Our error or verification of our decision is carried out by the Court of BiH, whatever decision the Court makes if it says that the appeal to our decision is correct, that he has respected, he will order us, means what to do, how to do. So I'm telling you at this point, but you're going to get answers to these, these questions of yours. I'd look more around, I don't see Mr. Prodanović, he came out, so this is what Mr. Prodanović was saying. BiH Election Law, you know very well that it is a lex specialis, so compared to other laws. You all know that after the constitution of one state, the electoral law is high. If there have already been twenty amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, yet many of us are unhappy with some of the solutions and norms that exist in it and after all these amendments and what we have delivered in this act, at the end of the implementation act, have our 50 recommendations and can also be seen as what we should do, whether in the new amendments and additions to the Election Act or in the new electoral law, what should be done. First of all, it should be a competent interresor working group, it is known to be formed by representatives of one and the other House of Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers and us from the Central Election Commission, and of course no one refuses to do so and some political entity, as we have examples, we had, to propose amendments and amendments to the Election Law, it depends on most whether they adopt it or not. So it's one thing to approach, to form an inter-resor working group as soon as possible, and to start by making changes and additions or by forming a new electoral law. The second, interresor working group is very important and this is Mr. Prodanović mentioning, are new technologies. When he said it was late now, he might have thought of the upcoming local elections that are very close to the time being, but it's never too late to do anything and work. For the sake of this example, the Parliamentary Assembly accepted our suggestion in 2017, our recommendation that following a brochure that we made on the state of election technologies in the electoral process, to form an inter-resor working group for the creation of a strategy and action plan, and to assign the Council of Ministers to 2017, in particular, I think that one ministry from that Council has been given the task to form together with us this inter-resor working group and prepare the basis, the proposal is actually that strategy and action plan that would come before you, or before.... MPs, whether they would be adopted or not, and what of these new technologies would be applied, are just scanners, are other technical, technical things that would improve the electoral process. But in addition to these two, that I do not have much longer, of course, in these recommendations you have here from and forming election committees, we have recommended in each of our previous reports that you adopt a recommendation in the amendments to the Election Law, and that you resolve it in another way, that at least the presidents and vice presidents of the electoral committees name municipal and city election committees, not just candidates of political parties, and that all the other members were election committees of 3 or 5 members, political parties or entities are running. Here's not to be a lot longer, that's what I had.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Nikić. This ended the discussion and these comments. Now we are initiating the voting procedure on the General Election Implementation Report 2018, Report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission for 2018. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 12 - for 8, versus 3, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 5 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 3 for, no one abstention, nor against. There is a general, there is an entity majority and I agree that the General Election Implementation Report 2018 and the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission for 2018 has been adopted into knowledge. Thank you very much. We move to the next item of the agenda, item 14. Ad. 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2017, the Council of Ministers' material, number: 01.02-16-1-2627/17 since 29.05.2018. 51 You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget from the previous call, the Commission has accepted the Information and is proposing to the House its adoption. The commission also adopted the following conclusion: The Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to take into account data provided by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska and carry out an analysis and detailed corrections of public debt information. The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is tasked with reporting to the People's House after taking the actions. The House of Representatives received this information at the 3rd session, held on 16 January. I give the word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, if there is any need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u266	So this was adopted by the Commission in the last meeting, it was material from 25th of July 2018, and this conclusion was put here on the proposal of one of the delegates from Republika Srpska. The ministry, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, delivered its view on this and explained that this was not about peas, that it was a daily adjustment and that it was not about to accept the conclusion accordingly. So I propose adopting an opinion on the state of public debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 31.12.2017 without this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u267	Okay, thank you very much. We now have the option, so since our schedule... and the timing and setting up of different commissions is what it is, so with the vote, we reject the conclusion, so we solved the problem. I give the word to the Reporter, if there is one and there is a need. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate about this information. No Niko's answering, thank you very much. We're closing the debate. And now here is what the President of the Finance and Budget Committee has proposed, and we put to the vote the conclusion of the Finance Committee and the budget from the previous call. Please initiate voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u268	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u269	We have, we have enough majority, I hope, formally we have. 52 Present 12 – for 5, against 4, abstention 3. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat our vote once again, please. Thank you very much. Attending 12 – for 2, versus 5, abstention 5. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 5 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against. The general majority doesn't exist. So the conclusion was rejected as a conclusion, we voted on it. I am finding the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples has not been adopted. Now we are launching the Information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12.2017. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 - for 11, against no one, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 3 for. The ethnic majority exists, i.e. the entity majority exists, the general majority exists. I agree with the Information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12. It was adopted, i.e. received. Here's another phenomenon received from us. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item 15 of today's agenda, Ad. 15. The appointment of three members from the House of Peoples to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02- 02-1-2015/17 of 09.08.2017 and 26.09.2017)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u274	Thank you. This agenda item will be a very visible indicator in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is heading. We have two possible directions of movement, one is to implement the European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg, and the other is to move towards discrimination and ethnic apartheid. I want to believe that we're closer to this first time today. I remind the delegates that this is an urgent commitment from the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I will add one of the priority obligations. In May... last year, the European Commission adopted 14 priorities and, among other things, made it clear that authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina should urgently approach the implementation of these rulings. There are two ways we can implement it. One, as I propose today, is to assign the Council of Ministers within a decent time frame to prepare amendments to the Constitution, so the Council of Ministers in co-operation with both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to deal with these matters. Another way is, if we don't want it that way, that we individually propose certain solutions, but I think that in that case our chances for a solution are much less. Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's verdict has not been realised for 10 years. We, even for those who have forgotten little, had one joint session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, it seems to me that in 2013, we had a large number of amendments, we came to the conclusion and never that session was completed. That session lasts, here, almost seven, eight years, still. So everything is, there's been an all-day debate, a joint session of both homes, but there's been no vote. We cannot escape the fact that a vast number of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been denied passive voting rights, that we have one huge inequality among the people living in this country. Our European friends also point to that. I think it is high time that in this country the primate of daily politics is given the Constitution of BiH, and it tells us in Article II of Article 1 and Article 2 very clearly that European conventions, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, have a primate in our legal system. I think it is time to begin to implement the European Court of Human Rights rulings, the European Union's recommendations, the opinion of the Venice Commission. When asked what to do, then, today first shows the political will to want to solve it and the longest time begins with the first step. I think it's time to show that we're able to take that first step. I think the implementation of these judgments should be conducted in a legal procedure, as prescribed by the BiH Constitution. I think it's our job to ensure all citizens equality, equality in rights, equality in obligations. What kind of political trail we're going to leave, here, we're going to see after this vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u275	Thank you. 55 Since there are no more applications for debates, I don't see any interest, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Please vote on Mr. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative. Please initiate voting procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me? Please, you've had business all clean, I'm the only one who can do it is to restart the voting procedure. Make a statement about that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u278	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u279	You just correct all your views and everything's fine. Please initiate voting procedure. So we're voting on Mr. Denis Bećirović's initiative. Attendance 15 - for 6, versus 9, abstention no one. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 5 against. There's no general majority. I agree, Mr. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative has not been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item 18 of today's agenda, Ad. 18. Envoyed initiative by Denis Bećirović, which reads: "I submit the delegation initiative in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH that, no later than 60 days from the day of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, prepare and submit in parliamentary procedure information on the harmonisation of curricula and programme bh. The entity Republika Srpska and Serbia, with a special reference to the coherence of these plans and programmes with the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina", number: 02-50-6-1962/19 of 12.11.2019 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission didn't support the initiative. I give my word to my colleague Bariša Čolak, if he has any needs on behalf of the Commission. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u281	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u282	There isn't. I give the word to the applicant of the initiative. Here you go, pal Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u283	Thank you. The Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH firmly guarantee both the non-compliance and sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its territorial integrity. I think that we in a held Parliament have the right and we need to look for this kind of information to see for ourselves what the word is. Namely, it is my opinion that the Republic of Serbia is clearly abused by special connections or the possibility of making special connections. No matter how tired we are today and this is already which, the 18th point of the agenda, is a very sensitive problem. Nothing as long-term damage to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will do as is happening in the education system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The neighbouring state has usurped rights that do not have and almost fully equated curricula and programmes with part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. I think it's inadmissible and I think we need to talk about it very seriously. This is just one way to talk about it and draw attention to this very serious problem. I think both OHR and... have an obligation to react in this case. In my court, it's about long-term dangerous activities that no other state would allow. We must have equal standards in this region. Imagine how the government in Belgrade would behave that children, for example, Hungarian nationalities from Vojvodina fully agree their curricula and programmes with educational programmes in Hungary. Would that be possible? Or Croatia to do so with Hrvat in Vojvodina, Bulgaria with Bulgarians etc., etc.? This is very serious stuff, and I think it's enough to start today to draw attention to it, and we don't have to be afraid to face facts. If all this is regular and all right, what's the problem with getting that information here in the state parliament? But I'm afraid whoever gets a little more serious and deeper into this problem is going to come up with frantic facts that undoubtedly say that the sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not primarily respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u284	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. Since we do not have any applications for discussion, we are voting on the envoy's initiative of fellow Bećirović. Please initiate voting procedure. Attending 14 – for 6, versus 8. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 3 against. Republika Srpska – 5 against. There's no general majority. I agree, Mr Bećirović's delegation initiative has not been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to agenda 19, 57 Ad. 19. Envoyed initiative by Denis Bećirović, which reads: "I submit the delegation initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, that, no later than 60 days after the date of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the preparation and parliamentary procedure shall submit amendments to the relevant legislation aimed at implementing the European Court of Human Rights on the case of Irma Baralija against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina for failing to hold elections in the City of Mostar", issue: 02-50-6- 2020/19 of 20.11.2019. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission didn't support the initiative. I give my word to my colleague, Čolak, who is now out. There's no need to comment on behalf of the Committee. Thank you. I give the word to the applicant of the initiative. Here you go, pal Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u286	Unlike these previous judgments I spoke of, this verdict is not only fortifying, it is also an executive verdict. We here have an additional direct obligation if the state parliament and nothing will help us if we escape today from this topic. Namely, I would like to remind you that the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has established a violation and discrimination, whether, human rights and in the case of Irma Baralija concerning the Mostar issue. To know what we are fully voting on, I remind you that the Court has ruled that the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina must, within six months of adopting this ruling, amend the electoral law to ensure that the elections are held in Mostar. You see, today is January 23rd, in six days, January 29th, we are starting to run a deadline here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Since January 29th, we've only got six months to figure this out. If we do not resolve this by July 29th, the BiH Constitutional Court will have to act according to this verdict. I think that today we, as the BiH Parliament, should show fundamental respect for the European Court of Human Rights' rulings and that nothing costs us anything to put the Council of Ministers in charge with the help of all of us in both Houses of Parliament to start looking for a solution in the institutions of this state. If we send a message six days before the start of the deadline starting on January 29th, I think we become, or those who do, unserious in the eyes of both the European Union and the whole of Europe. I invite you, so let's take the first step.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u287	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. No more charges for discussion, no more interests. We're closing the debate. Please initiate procedure to vote on the delegation initiative of fellow Bećirović. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 6, versus 7, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 3 against. Republika Srpska – 4 versus, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I agree, fellow envoy Denis Bećirović's initiative has not been adopted. Thank you very much. 58 We move to the point of today’s 20th agenda, Ad. 20. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Commissions of the People's Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Bosniak People, issue: 02-50-8-2161/19 of 16.1.2020. The Bosnian People's Envoys' Club sent a letter to the College of the House of Peoples informing him that by leaving Mr. Fahrudin Radončić for a new post in the BiH Council of Ministers, membership in the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs Transport and Relationships, the newly appointed envoy, Munib Jusufović, is taking over the newly appointed envoy. You have received a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate if there's any need on behalf of the Bosniak Club. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate at all. Is there any need? There isn't. Thank you very much. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the appointment of Mr Munib Jusufović. Here, run the voting process. Thank you. Attendance - 15, 13 for, 2 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree, we adopted the Decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which Munib appointed as a member of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs Transport and Liaison of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. We're moving to the next agenda points. On the agenda there is still agreement on ratification of agreements, agreements, conventions and streams. I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 21 to 39, including item 39 of the agenda. First we open a debate on this proposal to unify these points of the agenda. Any comments? No, we're closing the argument. Please initiate voting procedure to bring all of these points together on debate and plea. Thank you very much. Attending 15 - 15 for. Federation of BiH – 10, all for. Republika Srpska – 5, all for. There's a general and entity majority. The proposal was passed. Ad. 21. - ad. 39. Granting consent to ratifications of agreements, contracts, conventions and protocols 59
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u290	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-23-0.u291	No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one signed up for a word, and I don't see any interest in you wanting to sign up. We're closing the debate on these agenda points. We vote on granting consent to ratification of agreements, contracts, conventions and protocols referred to in points 21 to 39 of the agenda, including point 39. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 15 - 15 for. Federation of BiH – 10 all for. Republika Srpska – 5, all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, we have agreed to ratify the agreement, the treaty, the concentration and the protocol in points 21 to 39 of today's agenda, including point 39. We've exhausted today's agenda. I thank you for your presence, and that concludes the 4th session. About the next session, we'll be organized in good time. We will try to place all the points of the agenda that come from the Council of Ministers and from the House of Representatives at the next session. Thank you. Session completed at 2:45 p.m.
