ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u891	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to take your seats. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the envoys, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the Independent Committee on Independent Authorities of the Police Structures of BiH, the Parliamentary House of BiH, and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The session is attended by 15 envoys – 5 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian, 5 from the Serbian people. For the 8th session, I propose an amended agenda. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Support System in BiH (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1694/19 of 25/09/2019 and 28.02.2020; 3. Proposal for a law on the termination of the mandate of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in its current composition (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-472/20 since 02.03.2020, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Report on the work of the Committees of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018 and 2019: (a) Reports on the work of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue: 02-50-18-335/20 of 17.06.2020 and for 2019, issue: 02/1-50-18-172/20 of 17.06.2020; (b) Reports on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue: 02/2-50-18-1245/20 of 24.06.2020 and 2019, issue 02/2-50-18-172/20 of 24.06.2020; c) Reports on the work of the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue 02-05-20.20. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure of BiH for 2019, issue: 01,02,05/1-50-15-409/20 of 12.02.2020; 2 6. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-5,1/20 of 26.05.2020; 7. Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, submitted by the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption, No: 05/8-34-1841/18 of 01.08.2018; 8. The delegation initiative of Zlatko Miletić, which reads: “In accordance with Articles 9 and 154. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit an initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers – the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to urgently allocate financial resources to address the status and problem of functioning of the Catholic School of Medicine, Ivan Paul II, in Bihac, issue: 02-50-6-2123/19 of 09.12.2019; 9. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament, delivered by the Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the common public procurement of medical countermeasures for Bosnia and Herzegovina, delivered by the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-21-1-927/20 of 11.05.2020; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement and the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW), Bosnia and Herzegovina (receiver), represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project), amounting to 9.500,00 euros – Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings, issue 01.02-21-1-998/20 of 22.05.2020; 12. Adherence to ratification of the Loan Agreement (Emergency Project for COVID-19 for Bosnia and Herzegovina) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01.02-21-11103/20 of 05.06.2020. That's thirteen points, excuse the twelve points of today's agenda. This is a harmonised amended agenda of the House of People's Colleges, which you've won. Is anyone picking up? Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u892	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Six months ago, at a meeting here, I publicly asked the Council of Ministers Chairman – what does the Council of Ministers do about the adoption of a law prohibiting genocide and Holocaust in BiH? Unfortunately, almost six months have passed I haven't received any answer, because of this reckless relationship I want to point out a few things, and then make a concrete proposal. First, here from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, I would like to publicly invite High Representative in BiH, Mr Valentin Inck, to declare a law on the banning of genocide and Holocaust in Bosnia and Herzegovina by 11 July this year. I think it's a civilization obligation for both the UN and the European Union and the entire international community, if the international community somehow issued Srebrenica in 1995, there's no reason for 25 years after 2020. For 3 years, the international community, which forms an integral part of the constitutional order of BiH, has been capitulating before the negator of international judgments. I also want to publicly support the 100-PLUS club petition, which also delivered a petition on June 12th this year with 8 372 signatures, and I remind that the club is making up friends of BiH from nearly twenty-seven countries in the world. A verdict on the Bosniak Bošnjak has been passed by the International Court of Justice, the highest court on our planet. The European Parliament determined on July 11th a day of memory of genocide. The US Congress also adopted a resolution, the Canadian Parliament, the Australia Parliament, the United Kingdom Parliament, many other parliaments around the world. So the entire planet admits that genocide has been committed only in BiH we still have, unfortunately, the extremes that deny the world's highest courts' verdicts. If that were the case, then, wouldn't still be with you, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to check again here today for any information from the Council of Ministers on this matter at this time. If there is one I deliver to you in writing, as the Rules of Procedure requires, a proposal to supplement the agenda. If there's no point in delivering that proposal in writing. I would like to inform the entire public once again that this is another indicator of the negligence of the BiH Council of Ministers, and therefore the High Representative in BiH has both a civil and moral and historical and Dayton obligation to impose such a law in BiH by 11 July. I believe that the international community does not take 25 years after genocide to capitulate in front of those....
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u893	Thank you, fellow Bećirović, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u894	...that violates international judgments.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u895	Here, I'll ask you one more time, since we're answering like this, let's keep an eye on the weather. Thank you very much. There's no more discussion. You can deliver to your kolega Bećirović a proposal for a agenda point in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that we can declare ourselves, in writing we need a draft agenda. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u896	kolega Čović, I have prepared to deliver this item to the agenda, but I ask that we determine whether there is any information from the Council of Ministers on this matter, so that it does not abuse the report regarding the Rules of Procedure, which reminds me specifically of the following provisions. 4 Article 155. - if the delegate is dissatisfied with the answer, the delegate may request that the reply be delivered to him in writing within 15 days. I asked for it, so in January, it hasn't been 15 days, it's been six months, and I don't have that answer, so I want to determine if it exists today. Article 157 broken, Article 158, Article 23 and Article 11.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u897	Thank you very much. Here you are saying, we no longer have the debate again, not by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or any other business opportunity to discuss it. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. So, you have suggested a item of the agenda, if you have this proposal, I will put it on a statement, if you do not have it then, we will feel that we have not received it and that you have used your time in the way you have already done it, and here I will ask you once again, my colleague Bećirović, regardless of what you are reporting to the Rules of Procedure, there is someone here who cares about the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, and please, regardless of your satisfaction with previous issues, you will handle it through other points of the agenda of possible sessions when such activities are discussed here, and now we are only discussing the agenda, colleague Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u898	I have prepared exactly what the agenda should be called, part of the material that applies to me. What I asked you to do, to give this up to be a part of the agenda, is to get information, we can do it by mouth, by the Council of Ministers, if they have any information on this issue that is legal and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure set up at the House of Nations session. If there's no such answer from the Council of Ministers, then there's no point in me delivering material. After all, the messages I wanted to send were clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u899	Thank you. You've accomplished your mission, I've figured it out. Since we don't have an update on the agenda, we're closing the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have been adopted and is not voted on. Thank you very much. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. 5 Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH – 10 for Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Support System in BiH (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1694/19 of 25/09/2019 and 28.02.2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u903	No matter what was clear, it was also known in the House of Representatives that this Law would not pass in the House of Peoples, yet it should be said... from this law, the bill follows a message and it would be good to hear that message. There is no need to remain silent about the important proposals for legal solutions, especially not to be silent about his intentions. So, we know in what circumstances the Law is proposed, a law on which the Constitutional Commission finds that there is no constitutional basis, that it does not respect the nomochnik, that it does not comply with the principles which, therefore, the Constitutional Commission says cannot support the principles. So none of the elements that are necessary for one law to have a pass in this case we don't have. He didn't have two important accompanying documents, which is the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration and the opinion of the competent agency, but this is somehow at some speed, after the completion of the procedure at the House of Representatives, he came to the House of Peoples. Especially missing who was consulted in the making of the Law. Niko. If one of the institutions, such as the obligation to consult institutions working on draft laws, we would have their opinion attached here, we don't have it. We know who's been consulted behind the stage, but we don't have any consults on who they are, they should be actors at law-making. Now imagine, you have a law that changes two points on its basis, and here is the first termination of the term of office for members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in the current personal composition, where a new deadline is given on 15.06.2020. Today is the 25th day, so the law comes to you in the procedure that began to degrade itself. Another thing – the deadline and procedure for selecting new members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council are being arranged, and the deadline for submission of proposals for the election procedure for new members is 08.06.2020. So, people, is this Parliament, what does this look like? Can such legal solutions be proposed in one parliament, is there any seriousness here? The SNSD made it clear that, soon after its release, all the laws were passed in the House of Representatives by the so-called House of Representatives. As counterpart Špirić, Adil group, says, means two SDS, two PDPs and Adil, will never get any support and know it well all those who were the bearers of these activities, don't make bad jokes, there is no support for what is being forced into the House of Representatives and that of those who say they are the opposition. You don't really know who the opposition is anymore and who the position is. Does this law have the ambition to solve one single problem of justice? I wish from one of his members, if we could see that satisfaction that someone who lives and works in this country and knows all the problems of the judiciary, that this example shows how something should be done to bring justice to what the citizens of this country expect of him. No, whoever did this bill doesn't care about the justice that's supposed to be, we all know what kind. He cares about changing the current composition in the hope that the new composition will work according to measures and arches from the centre of individual political parties. That's not what citizens are looking for. The reform of the judicial system requires much more and we try to agree on this reform for years, and when certain key actors from the BiH Court of Justice, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH when they were directly involved in the structural dialogue process, we could not get to the point of reforming the judiciary and bring it to the level, at the required level, but rather do it to be as it is appropriate for some. It's not judicial reform, it's, it's not coming to an independent, fair and effective judiciary, because if it was now, the commission that was formed would be working intensively on it and we'd see the end of it, we'd know that we'd soon have a new law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and solve these problems, not like this. We had first that the SDA leader first asked Mr. Tegeltija, the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to do so by the existing composition of the VSTS. Well, when that didn't go away, then let's remember the good old partners in Adil's group, and they're doing that part of the job, but knowing it won't work in the House of Peoples. So, logical question – is there anywhere in the country, in a country that the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted decides on judicial reform? If such individuals decided on judicial reform, they would first adapt it to themselves. I have no doubt that this is not the intention of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u904	Thank you, colleague Majkić. Comrade Bosić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u905	Thank you, Chairman. Even in this country, everyone will tell you that the judiciary is not working properly and says everyone except those in charge of the functioning of the judiciary and those who are their political mentors and sponsors, because it is clear that if a small group is benefiting from the functioning and control of the judicial system normally that it will do anything to avoid changing such a system that provides them with status and privileges. I was, I don't know the word to find, but astounded by Mr. Tegeltija's statement, which I saw on TV yesterday, when he said the direct question of journalists – so is everything okay in the judiciary, is the system working? He says, yes, the justice system works, everything's fine. And that's it. And I will return to the meeting two years ago, I think that about two years ago, an extraordinary session of the House of Representatives at which the only point was the functioning of the judiciary, with the almost consensual view that the judiciary is in big trouble and that this is the main task of the institutions to facilitate the work of the judiciary, has been reached by the conclusions required by the BiH Justice Ministry to propose within six months a new law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Why the High Court and Prosecution Council? Well, because it's an institution that's in charge of the functioning of the judiciary and the purity of its work. Parliament is not in charge of the functioning of the judiciary in terms of direct supervision and control of individual cases, it is precisely the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and therefore it was the conclusion that it must be changed to be an independent institution of political influence, which is evident that this High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is under the thick political influence of several groups that are seen to be setting processes in the judiciary. Why hasn't that conclusion been carried out at the House of Representatives, why hasn't the Council of Ministers done so? The explanation is that they could not form a commission for which the Republika Srpska government was supposed to give a member, that is why it was not even started in the preparation of the law in the Council of Ministers. The same minister of justice who was then is and is now the minister of justice and now the group is not functioning and now nothing is done, nor is there any intention to be offended about changing the situation in the judiciary. And those who want to block something or something to justify finding a table, a thousand ways why it doesn't have to do it, here's what we've been listening to in the explanations of colleague Majkić. If this is not done, there is no progress in BiH, so if one pillar of three pillars of government doesn't work, it can't be, democracy can't function in BiH, it doesn't work as a pillar of the BiH judiciary. The only way to change that is for this system to be like these people who are at the top of this system to be schooled and to create a system that will be independent of political influence for a longer period of time. We've had, very often, sheep's debates about the prosecution's report,... The High Court and Prosecution Council. The claim by the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that he does not want to co-operate with the BiH Parliament, that the BiH Parliament has no jurisdiction when it comes to the judiciary, a direct statement made in the BiH media these days, is a clear signal of what is happening and what we can expect in the coming period. And what is it, does Parliament have the right to be interested and even to listen? This was a story about a commission, some commission that was formed in the House of Representatives. Well, of course there is, Parliament is responsible for this situation, because Parliament passed a law on the basis of which the judiciary came into this position. Parliament is responsible for passing laws that will now abolish this situation and bring new conditions to correct what we have now, so that is the question of Parliament. Well, Parliament needs to examine the judiciary in order to determine the facts of the new law to be passed, and Milan Tegeltija says - Parliament has nothing to do with it and cannot discuss anything about the judiciary, I also order all other people in the judiciary not to respond to calls from Parliament's authorities. Because the Commission of Investigation is one of the authorities of the BiH Parliament. The D.A. and all of us, we always have the same excuses, we can't get politics mixed up, when you ask something, politics can't get mixed up in the judiciary. She was recently the BiH chief prosecutor here for the prosecutor's report and repeated the same words. She asked me to tell her in writing what two cases of electoral and corruption at the top of the BiH government I think when I speak to her in my discussion that I had at the time. I wrote a letter to the D.A. and listed what two cases I'm thinking about. That letter went away 20 days ago by mail from the People's House and I didn't get an answer, but I got an answer today by means of an indirect route, because today in the media it says there's been an indictment in the case, one of those two cases that I've been making there. If that is the consequence of my question, then I am glad that this small step has been taken, but this suggests that Parliament should put pressure on the judiciary to do its job. I hope that I will get the same answer 9 in this second case that I said, as regards the top of the BiH government and their involvement in corruption and would be satisfied, it does not have to send me any answers at all. I need to talk to Mrs. Majkić about this pessimistic story about what happened. To the Adil group, or MPs in Republika Srpska's House of Representatives who do not belong to the ruling coalition, that is what Mrs. Majkić referred to and said – that the SNSD said it would never vote in the House of Peoples on what passed through the House of Representatives by the vote of Adil's group. Isn't that right, Mrs. Majkić? So this previous point is such a point, the State Aid Act passed as a system law by voting representatives from Republika Srpska who are not part of the ruling coalition and you have now voted for this Law, so much for your consistency and your word. So, to recap, Mr. Mektić as an MP has proposed a law that sounds drastic, but that law should be cut by the sword of Gordi's knot, which is impossible otherwise. If this is not done in a drastic way, there will always be such tensions and discussions and parliaments and special sessions without any movement, because there is no political will to move it. That is why I would support, if I were to vote, I would support this law with all the faults it has, but I am aware that it will not go away because those who are in some way sponsors of this judicial system in BiH decide in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u906	Thank you. My kolegica Majkić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u907	Mr. Bosić, all that you've been saying would make sense if you'd realized in a five-year term, which you ruled sovereignly, means five years, usually four years, you've been five years, which you didn't suggest everything then, that you didn't reform the judiciary, that you didn't then insist on completing the Structural Dialogue, that you didn't do everything you're doing now? It didn't occur to you, on the contrary, that you have destroyed this judiciary more than anyone before, so I don't trust what you're saying, because nothing costs you to be cooperative and attack without any argument, and I'm telling you that soon we will have complete arguments that obstruct the adoption of the VSTS law. We're going to prove to you exactly who it is... who is constantly referring to it as a third-rate question that shouldn't come. Why is this question not delegated at a time when Medžida Kreso and Goran Salihović are? It never occurred to anyone at that time, everyone was talking about justice, the miracle of the judiciary, even though we talked countless times about the state of a bunch of objects that are in the dust, in the mud, no one thought to react to that subject, no one. At that time it was perfect, Medžida Kreso I did as she did, we know how, as well as Goran Salihović, and now we are positioning that only those who do not come from the Bosniak people should be removed from the VSTS president and the chief prosecutor should be removed and, as you say, with the sword of Gordi, you are five years behind with the sword of Gordi. You had it in your hand that you didn't cut, that you didn't solve, that's a question that, so you can't explain it to anyone, now you're, you're an ex-post mind doesn't mean much, if it's not at the time you need to, then it's useless. And another thing about Mr. Kasipović, no one has done more to initiate the work of a working group working on judicial reform in terms of the adoption of a new VSTS law than this man has done. Here's the minister of justice, he's a witness for sure as much as anyone on this plan has done and in the next period, so we haven't been able to force key actors to bring 10 principles to this law, if there's no principle of law there's no group that's going to bring this business to an end. Shall we finish the job? From the way political parties treat this law, you can see how much they care. The SNSD has shown a practical example and you don't have, I mean, any minister who's hired so much to pass this law, but he can't do it alone. You insist on this job being done, so we'll have a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u908	Thank you, colleague Majkić. The time for correcting the wrong quote is somewhat shorter, so keep an eye on it. Comrade Bosić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u909	Well, here I have a feeling that you didn't listen to me directly, so whoever's directly obstructing is exactly SNSD, or Milorad Dodik. Because the decisions in the SNSD are being made, it is known that they are being made, I do not blame you there, but did I not now explain why the Council of Ministers committee was not formed, it is, if there is, the minister is there, I have been given such an explanation that the Republika Srpska government did not want to propose a candidate and thus mined, blocked the formation of a commission that would propose a new law. There are a million ways to block something, if you do not want to do it directly for the judiciary and whoever is sponsoring this situation in the judiciary is exactly Milorad Dodik and SNSD and their authority in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u910	Thank you. We're moving on to debates. Comrade Čolak, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u911	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although the Act on the termination of the mandate of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in the current meeting is on the agenda, I think our focus should now be on the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, because it has been decided previously, but here, of course, colleagues have discussed it wider and so is parliamentary democracy always. Namely, why were we against today or why the majority of the Constitutional Court were against, I think it is necessary, here are a few words at this high house to talk about it. In fact, by accepting these principles on which this Law, these principles, would be based, not to say compliance with the Constitution and the legal system in BiH, we would completely change the relationship between the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as the main regulatory body at BiH level, which is responsible for establishing an independent and impartial judiciary, a professional judiciary, I would also say to the responsible judiciary, as it is set up. So, I don't mind, believe me, I'll be the first to raise both hands if we come to a consensus that we really need to significantly change this relationship between the High Judicial Council and this House and I think that this Parliament should still play some role, how significant, but it should play a certain role when it comes to relations between the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council. But there are things now set up so that, they're set up the way they're set up. Can tomorrow, according to this concept of the law, can tomorrow Parliament say, but we won't, now this is drastic, let's change them all, that other words 11 means to replace them, we'll name new ones. Tomorrow we'll take one or two or three off, and we'll name others. I would, once again, be in favour of having an active role tomorrow in the appointment of members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, including in the resolution of members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and may all be proposed by the professional community. So, none that we cannot influence in terms of the proposal, but that we can little and regionally schedule it, that we can little and nationally schedule it and that we have a certain role in this respect of this relationship between Parliament and this main regulatory body. So with a dramatic move like this, I don't think we'd be able to solve anything systematically, in order to make even more of a huge catastrophic mistake, and I don't think we can and can't do it. On the other hand, I am absolutely in favour that as soon as possible, of course, we get the law on VSTV and its amendments, it is also one of the priorities proposed by the European Commission and even one of those eight, therefore, constricted by those 14 priorities, I expect that we will have this draft law on amendments and additions to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council here for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u912	Thank you, colleague Čolak. Comrade Nović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u913	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll nastojati with a few sentences to say why today and personally I was against this law on the Constitutional Commission. But before that, just you, Mr. Bosić, please, don't honor us all that we are those who support illegal or I don't know what kind of judicial work, it's not at least correct that you are one whole party and members of that party accusing us, and I have seen precisely what you said. That if you have a personal so to say, you have a right, but you don't have the right to tell everyone how we negatively influence that court and don't allow this or that. I ask you to take care of it, it's the same as if the whole people were accused of crimes or something else, it's neither correct nor democratic, nor civilized. On the other hand, you can see why I didn't vote for this today. I have carefully read the bill and I must tell you when I would be wondering if the BiH Parliament should or should not have an impact on the judiciary, I would say yes, yes. But does this Law have an impact on the judiciary and what will happen if this Law sees the light of day tomorrow? Here I am not going to elaborate Article 2 where it is said when the term of office of the existing members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council ceases, so they will cease the term of office later than the election procedure... second. So we're going to spend the first choice of this new one, and then we're going to say we cancel these. It's just kind of amazing, and even assuming that the law, if it had seen the light of the day in the first reading, so that the amendment and that correct it, maybe we could talk about it. I can't accept that this law is passing without any colossal reason why this law is proposed. Here, let's not make anything up, say not to adopt a report on the work of the VSTS. First of all, Parliament does not adopt, neither the House of Peoples nor the House of Representatives, we have already not known how many years we have realized, that this is receiving knowledge, and I think we should say exactly that at the very least. Well, it was not adopted here, according to neither in 2015 nor in 12 2016, nor in 2017, nor in 2018 it was adopted, but here we now remember 2020, yes, to propose it. What were we waiting for and why didn't we do it before? Because, why did the Council of Ministers, the explanation given by Mr. Bosić, that he had received this explanation, probably got it, but we know something else from how all the activities were going about the formation of the commission and what was going on there for several years and it was not so simple either, that Republika Srpska did not propose one member and waited five years for nothing to happen. So imagine, second, the reason for proposing this Law is, among other things, the amazing support of the other members of the Council received by the President of the VSTS Council. So please, imagine now that we should all be here who we are, if we support these three people who are chairman of the House, uh, and that's why the three of us should be replaced because we're being replaced because we've given support to the three of them, is it, maybe a little cartoon, but it's around here somewhere? Or he says, among other things, that the exchanges were not done, the absence of the willingness of the judiciary, etc. We want to replace the High Court and Debt Council, and I ask you all, and yourself and you – why don't we replace all directors of agencies that don't work? In these homes, the reports that happened, and not for one year, there were illegalities in these agencies, a lot of large illegalities, so just tell me, is there any question that the deputy director, the deputy? No, not a word. And why is that? You all hold yours, and you hold yours, and you hold yours, and the one holding the Srbin, the one holding the Bošnjak, the one holding the Hrvat, so go ahead and press and replace the director of one agency. Now, that won't lead away any of us, as long as we don't realize that professionalism is needed there, not a Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak in that way. Let the Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak also respect that, absolutely, national structure, but must also show that he is a professional at the job. So let's pass the law to replace the director of some, I'm not going to appoint any agencies now, right? Yes, here's the thing about this same principle, we're replacing the director to set up a new one. It's not a fundamental issue, it's not a systemic question and a solution. Because when you look at the Law on VSTS I would be very pleased if it were said here – changes and additions to this Law. So it changes Article 4 that talks about setting up, selecting VSTS members, is, and Article 6 where it talks about the termination of the term of office. Whoever has read Article 6 on the termination of the term of office or... in the explanation of none of them has called for any provision of that Article. So we say or say, Pribe's report showed weaknesses in the Council. Weakness doesn't mean death, so I guess if someone's weak he'll be given medications, he'll figure out what his condition is, and we'll fix it. And if I don't mind, if it's in accordance with the law to replace them. So it's that it's to allow professional choice of morally competent people. First, who determined that these 15 were morally incompetent? And who will guarantee that they will come morally competent, if we are in the situation we are and the choices we are in? I think the key here is to concentrate on the adoption of a new VSTS law, to talk speedily, urgently about judicial reform, however much some want it more or less, there is no here in this, neither in other homes nor in the innocent, nor in the clean, we are all here somewhere, and don't just think that we are going to solve this issue of justice in BiH, we won't. Here tomorrow, assuming that we replace all this, I am deeply convinced that without complete, complete reforms in BiH will show neither to the world nor to its citizens that it can fight crime, corruption, terrorism and any other monsters that attack. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u914	I thank my colleague Nović. The word came from counterpart Bosić, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u915	Mr. Nović, I had no intention of plowing with you, nor wanted in my discussion in any way to offend you, but now that you've commented like this, I intend to clarify what I meant when I said in the discussion and who is responsible for this situation. In each party there are various kinds of people, there are both good and bad and these and such, and it is not disputed, there are also people in the SNSD that I highly appreciate and I know that they are both good and honest people, why they agree to be members of an authoritarian party in which decisions are made by one man, that is now another question, it has nothing to do with their character. It's their choice and it's okay, but when I say something in general about the party I'm talking about the decisions that this party makes. And to remind you, this party is at the last sources, and even in this House here it entered as SNSD-SNSD-Milorad Dodik, which is a party that, we don't have to discuss, it's clear to everyone what the decision-making structure is in this party, I have nothing against, it's like that and whoever wants to agree to it, who doesn't want to probably never be a member of your party. But that the party's responsibility for this situation is in the judiciary, so that's clear, Mr. Nović, I, all your arguments, can find and can agree with your arguments, but I haven't heard from you that the judiciary is in such a state, that we urgently have to change it together. You're talking about agencies and, oh, there's no agency, no institution whose work could put a stop to the whole state and a whole society like poor judicial work. Because the bad work of the judiciary corrupts everything and doesn't let society breathe. So, I repeat, I think and I stand at my disposal, who's guilty of what, here's what you say I'm guilty of, but let's see what we do now, let's step forward and change this situation, someone has to change it, and maybe not, but then the fate of both the people and the state and the future of our children is certain.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u916	I thank my colleague Bosić. For his word, he answered for the discussion, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u917	Thank you. BiH citizens no doubt need an effective, independent, modern, professional justice system. Unfortunately, the current situation is such that the judicial system is neither independent, nor professional, nor efficient, nor modern. The situation in the judiciary is bad and it has already been found in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, that the state of bad thoughts is almost half of the delegates here in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, not to mention what the profession thinks, what the public thinks, etc. Is there anyone who's happy with the current state? However, I would like today at this point in the agenda to warn me of another matter and to remind myself, our strategic goal as BiH or one of the two strategic goals is full membership in the EU, and how it should be interested in how the EU sees this judicial system, what they tell us. The EU has invested millions of euros in reforming the justice system and undoubtedly people say they are unhappy with what the current situation is. What does the European Commission tell us? In February of this year they sent a very clear message, warning even that they could suspend the financing of judicial reform in BiH, I think it is a very serious warning that we should take seriously. The head of the EU delegation to BiH, Mr Satler, also says, let's look at the Council for Peace Implementation, also dissatisfied with the way it works, including the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. It's not 14 good if we ignore it all, so I'm against the Constitutional Commission's opinion, I think it's unfounded. I will support this Law, and I will support it even more when I have heard this opening statement which are the arguments of my colleague Dušanka Majkić against the adoption of this Law. So it states, "Is anyone consulted or not on this matter?" No matter how much more, here in this House of Nations, there is whether or not it is consulted, it is obvious that all who should have been consulted were consulted, but in this case were or were not consulted, we have part of the delegates, I am talking now about the House of Peoples, who continuously at all points are being shot down, blocked, abused, obstructed, and it is not just at this point in the agenda. Is there any law that suggests one step forward? As far as I know, Mr. Mektić is an opposition MP, who forbids you as part of the parliamentary majority to propose such laws. You could've suggested them by now, you could've suggested them today, so there's no ban there. However, when it comes to the judicial system and what is our situation in the judiciary amongst many primaries is the most recent example of the referendum. So, a completely anti-Dayton referendum, a fully anti-constitutional referendum, imagine someone in the entity made a referendum on the final and binding decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. Who can explain by any argument here why Milorad Dodik is not sanctioned for this? It is clear that the Dayton Peace Agreement, a clear Constitution of BiH, is the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court, so the law must be implemented, it must apply equally to all. I think this situation is really unsustainable, this law doesn't solve the biggest part of the problem in which the judicial system is, but we're going to support at least one part of the delegate here because it still represents one step forward. It can also be the first step in the positive direction, what's dangerous right now is not only that we have a bad condition, we humans are moving in the wrong direction, this is the wrong direction. This one who does not see is blind from the eyes, I fear that this way of working and resonating certain things of BiH, all of its citizens and peoples are being led into isolation, we are going exactly the opposite of what our common strategic goals are, we should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u918	... replica, I don't have _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Lidija Bradara, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u920	Thank you, current chairman. I welcome all of you colleagues and colleagues, I really listen to this debate for a very long time, and as far as I know, the item of the agenda is called what it's called, we had a commission this morning, and I'm sorry that all of our colleagues, but I think our session of the Constitutional Commission are open, so here might be a good idea that you come and discuss it with us sometimes. I really don't understand, we, most of the debates I've heard a few times, although this is now, you think that some of us haven't heard what we've talked about, and when we're discussing the state of the VSTV and the Justice, we're all unhappy, but today we're having a point called - the law of termination, as far as I understand, the mandate of the VSTV in the current composition, which is what it is, with dates as it is, 15 we're having a debate and the content of the Law itself, I really don't think this is the point of the agenda, and I'm asking you to take notice of the envoys on the current agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u921	I thank my colleague Bradara for his suggestions. Asim Sarajlić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in a way, I'm getting attached to Mrs. Bradara, my predecessor. So point 3 is - Proposed law on the termination of the mandate of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in the current composition, under the number of the team and team, since 02.03.2020 with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We've already heard some who voted against this morning's, uh, constitutional basis and legal basis for this proposed law. My kolega Fazlić and I voted in favour, because we believe that there is both a constitutional and legal basis for such a thing, and the metric and what counterpart Nović was talking about, it is already being discussed, because, as you can see in the agenda item 02.03., the bill was submitted, but some of the deadlines provided for in these amendments were passed, so they are neither realistic nor enforceable anymore. So, we, my colleague Fazlić and I, voted for constitutional basis and legal basis and, of course, respecting both the Rules of Procedure and the way the Commission votes, the Commission gave a negative opinion, and of course here again we have the opportunity to plead on this negative opinion of the Commission. Very briefly, therefore, the Law is not any fruit of the Adil group, under quotes, so this passed the House of Representatives. How did it go, who voted from Republika Srpska, who voted from the Federation? So the law has passed a home in this House and it is perfectly legitimate to appear before this House. The outcome of the Law, as well as the very ambition of the Law to resolve matters in the first sentence itself, where it says – the termination of the mandate of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, with the existing legal solution that we have and with the political reality situation in BiH as we have some members who have already been replaced in this year by the same law that works with the Structural Dialogue that lasts continuously for years and does not bring any solutions with the resources and energy and efforts that the friends of this country have been talking about, Bećirović, we can only conclude that the situation is not good. The policy now parallels between Mrs. Kreso, when she chaired the BiH Court, and Mr. Gorin Salihović, when he was a prosecutor, with two today, is assumed to be Mrs. Tadić and the president of VSTV, Mr. Tegeltija, or now to open stories about Dodik as party leader or member of the presidency, so it's all out of the agenda. But what we can all realize is that the situation is not good, this is what the European Commission tells us, this is what the European Union tells us, that is, the Office of the High Representative, or the Peace Implementation Council, and it tells us, if you will, the US Embassy in BiH, which, along with the EU, has given the most of its resources both professional and material assistance to this so-called. An independent judiciary. I can only conclude that, apparently, the state of the diplomatic crust and the Peace Implementation Council in BiH is satisfied only with the Russian, apparently, ambassador. And, therefore, we voted, colleague Fazlić and I, for the constitutional basis and legal basis of this Law, of course it is unrealistic to talk about these solutions offered in this Law, but, I say, today is obviously not the topic of the agenda, and the reality is that in this House too, this Law is just another attempt to improve certain things, but unfortunately I see that we are far from some concrete solutions. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u923	Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u924	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests. In fact, I have been here for a long time in BiH institutions, and it seems to me whenever something needs to be solved that is the problem of BiH, we cannot understand that the input parameters in any reform, and even the reform of the judicial system cannot be hatred and disputation and doctoring. Every reform would be good if we were looking for friends without making enemies. I find it very difficult to take away the impression when I hear my colleagues dispute and I must say that hatred for Milorad Dodik and the SNSD will not solve any problems in this country. Where else did hate as an entry parameter solve any problem? Our strength in Parliament, in one home and another, has been determined by citizens in the elections, someone may like it, someone doesn't like it, so I call on us to avoid it, because it almost doesn't interest anyone. What is certainly a sense of the public and what we all talk about, including Milorad Dodik, including Republika Srpska, including the Federation, and even citizens, is the created state, the atmosphere that the judiciary is not a regulated system. And I want to remind you how much effort and political will are, so right now both this SNSD and Milorad Dodik and all of us invested in getting to the first step in judicial reform, it wasn't an easy process and it was a contribution. And there are no revolutionary solutions, there has to be some evolutionary pathway in this country, and the evolutionary path requires that we don't argue, that we don't hate each other, to see where there are arguments and not reforming the justice system just the VST, the VST is part of the judicial system. There are people here and in Parliament, it's their right to challenge the people who were elected there, but I'm afraid there are also those who aim to create anarchy in the judiciary so that others come and order bones, that would probably be a second step in judicial reform. I find that hard to believe, but I can't help but believe the impression. I appreciate the effort any MP makes to propose a law, it is a matter of the MPs here to say their opinions, that no one challenges them or calls them. I have a feeling that the reform of the judiciary in the heads of some people is just a way of leading people in the judicial system, and that's exactly what reform needs to avoid, but that's a big deal what reforms in the depths need to avoid. You know that the European Commission has entered the Structural Dialogue on judicial reform with the BiH authorities, has anyone announced to us what is going on, whether or not, if we are going to get better solutions in BiH, not only, I mention, for the VST. I have a feeling that through the VST you want to get into a distraction, it's my feeling, don't mind me, it can be with the best intention, but system solutions are required to, that the institutions that are in charge of this offer a solution, which means a broad dialogue in BiH. I want to remind you how much effort has been made to get to the first step and the depth of the reform, every step out of the existing depth is looking for the same partners at the table. And what are we doing? We dispute them, we say it's not just them who should be involved in judicial reform, and the voters said something else. And what I want to say today, we have, therefore, a report from the commission, to get back to the agenda, we have to make a statement, if it passes, about the measure of the law, if it doesn't pass, there's no anger, and I want to, so this is the House of Peoples, and we have a statement here, so, the Government of Republika Srpska. Don't let people break it over their knees, it's not good. We need them for reform, any, or reform of the judicial system, and they say, that reform, yes, the fundamental reform, yes, the partial moves in judicial reform are unacceptable, because it will not solve what is the fundamental problem of the judicial system. Do not speak Republika Srpska will not, will not SNSD, reform yes, but it needs to provide dialogue, not hatred and disputation. 17 What you hear differing attitudes from Republika Srpska, it would be good if they were gone, but I beg you from the Federation, my friends, that you do not deliver, we will not reach reform. So, we can provide the reform, so not the VST, but the judicial system just by sitting at a joint table and spending the night and night talking about reforming the judicial system and looking for a solution. I don't know that there's a debate in any room today about reforming the justice system. As far as I'm concerned, I haven't found a single set... to be discussed, so how we're going to get here and not dispute the right of fellow fellow Mektić to propose this, and ours is to appreciate whether this is good and whether this is going to improve the situation. I'm closer to estimating that this law provides a stronger impact on judicial staffing, it's not a reform for me. And here, therefore, the opinion of the Republika Srpska Ministry where they say decidently – we point out that we are not in agreement with partial decision-making on this issue for the reason why the dialogue between the European Union and BiH on the Structural Dialogue is going on. Let's show some patience, let's help them, create a political atmosphere, get people to come out with documents, the Council of Ministers that will mean reforming the justice system and have our support, but also our participation in it. And I ask you once again, please, let's not accuse ourselves of trying to change style here, and we need a collection for every success in the difference we all lose, lose and BiH. If you can take this as a friendly call, in politics, the sum is the result, and the difference is the loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u925	Thank you, fellow Špirić. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u926	Thank you very much, President. Now, since I'm reporting for the first time, I warmly welcome you all. I'll really try not to repeat myself and be very brief. I am not the psychic Džemila, nor am I throwing spoons to know in advance how the vote or vote on this law will end, but what I want to say, without repeating myself, given that individual colleagues have talked about it, I will vote for this law for one reason only, and that is that we have at least two documents, the last document of the PIC, and the last European Union, or the European Commission, that people are asking us as a prerequisite for our entry into the EU this question that we need to resolve. We solve it today or we don't solve it, and then we'll be able to develop a dialogue. I apologize, Mr. Mektić here I see as a legislator of the Law, I think that Mr. Mektić as well as any other representative from one home or another has his integrity, and I really wouldn't want to cut down some members here in either parliament, since we have parliamentarians who are rightfully convicted of certain crimes, is it this logic that they, as they are, would never be able to report anything? And that thing that's in these discussions, which I've heard, whether someone likes it or not, best quality, I think it's all about what Mr. Nović said. And what Mr. Čolak said anyway, means we or I will raise both hands to vote, or to go through the process simply to come up with certain changes, but what Mr. Nović said, if that kind of change is made and tomorrow isn't this, there will be someone else, who will behave the same or worse than those who are there now, we basically get nothing. Until we begin to think, as he thinks about this problem, Mr. Nović, whom I greatly respect, this question will not help from a dead end. Two principles, in my opinion, are basic. It is to raise the political hands of all of us from the judiciary, each political party and each individual, and to give them financial independence, only when our consciousness is on the rise, at that level, will we then make 18 a reform road for both this Law and each other where people from the European Union are asking us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u927	Thank you. There's no more discussion, I don't see any interest in reporting, and that concludes the debate. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. At present 14 – for 8, against 6. Federation of BiH – 4 all for, Republika Srpska – 4 all for. There's a general, entity majority. In accordance with Article 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House has adopted the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, as the competent authority referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article and the proposed Law is hereby rejected. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item four of today's agenda, Ad. 4. Report on the work of the Committees of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018 and 2019: (a) Reports on the work of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue: 02-50-18-335/20 of 17.06.2020 and for 2019, issue: 02/1/50-18-172/20 of 17.06.2020; (b) Reports on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue: 02/2-50-18-1245/20 of 24.06.2020 and 2019, issue 02/2-50-50-18-172/20 of 24.06.2020; c) Reports on the work of the Committee for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue 02-05-20.20. You have received reports on the work of the Constitutional Commission, the Committee for Foreign and Trogovian Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples and the Committee for Finance and the Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2018 and 2019. The committees have adopted reports and are proposing their adoption to the House. I give my word to the presidents of the committees if there's any need. There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports. I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. 19 We are voting on the report on the work of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018. Thank you. Present 14-7 for, versus 1, abstention 6. The Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u929	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u930	Here's the college's consent to launch a second round of voting right now. We're gonna have to be a little patient since we've got a lot of reports in two years. Thank you very much. At present 14 - 8 for, 1 versus, 5 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the Constitutional Commission for 2018 has been adopted. Thank you very much. We are voting on the report on the work of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations for 2019. Thank you. Attending 14 – for 12, v. 1, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I am establishing a report on the work of the Constitutional Judicial Commission for 2019 has been adopted. Thank you very much. We are voting on the report on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the People's House for 2018. Thank you. Present 14 – for 7, abstention 7. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 abstentions. There's a general, and there's no entity majority. Shall we take the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u931	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u932	Run, please, and the second round of voting. Thank you. Attending 14 - 8 for, 6 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 abstentions. There's a general, entity majority. I am establishing a report on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2018 has been adopted. 20 We vote on the report on the work of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications for 2019. Thank you. At present 14 - 11 for, 1 versus, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u933	It's okay. It's okay. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u934	Here it is, I ask you, with an apology, to repeat, uh, the vote. Thank you. Present 14 – for 12.1 versus, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general, entity majority. I am establishing a report on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People's House for 2019 has been adopted. We move to the Report and vote on the report on the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2018. Thank you. Attending 14 – for 8, against no one, abstention 6. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority. We're going straight to the second round of voting. Thank you. Thank you. Attending 14 - 8 for, abstention 6. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 abstentions. There's a general, entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the Committee for Finance and the budget of the People's House for 2018 has been adopted. And we still have to vote on the report on the work of the Finance and Budget Committee for 2019. Thank you. Present 14 – for 12.1 versus, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2019 has been adopted. Thank you very much. 21 We move to the point of today’s five - agenda, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for 2019, issue: 01,02,05/1-50-15-409/20 of 12.02.2020. You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, the Commission has not accepted the report. The House of Representatives adopted this year a report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structures for 2019 at its session of June 10th, 9th. I give my word to my colleague, Sarajlić, if need be. There isn't. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I don't see the application, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. Thank you very much. We are voting on the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for 2019. Thank you. Present 14 - 9 for, versus 3, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u936	They're looking again... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u937	An apology, please, restart this, this voting procedure. Thank you. At present 15 – for 8.4 versus, 3 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 versus, 1 abstention. There's a general, and there's no entity majority. We're going straight to the second round of voting. Thank you. Thank you. Attendance 15 – for 8, versus 4, abstention 3. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 versus, 1 abstention. There's a general, and there's no entity majority. I find the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structures for 2019 has not been adopted. Thank you very much. 22 We move to the six - day agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries, Proposer: Joint College of both the houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-5,1/20 of 26.05.2020. The joint college of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the 5th session, held on 20 May this year, discussed the proposal of the Committee on Foreign and Trogovinic Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples and the Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives for the appointment of members of the interparliamentary groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries. The joint college of the two houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly gave a positive opinion and established a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with the parliamentary bodies of other countries that we have provided to you. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at its 9th session, held on 10 June this year, adopted a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries. It remains for us today to state on the motion for a decision established by the Joint College of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a word, I don't see any interest. We're closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Present - 14, for 13.1 abstention. Federation of BiH - 9 for, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general, entity majority. I agree that we adopted a Decision appointing members of the international group of friendship of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies, and appointed members, as follows, now be patient, I will have to read this. Members of the Neighbouring Countries Group: Dragna Čović, Dušanka Majkić, Amir Fazlić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, Borjana Krišto, Mirsad Kukić, Nenad Stevandić, Predrag Kojović, Šemsudin Dedić and Sanja Vulić. Members of the Group for Western Europe: Marina Pendeš, Asim Sarajlić, Halid Genjac, Lazar Prodanović, Šemsudin Dedić, Darijana Filipović, Dženan Đonlagić, Vlatko Glavaš, Enver Bijedić, Edita Đapo, Nenad Nešić. Members of the Group for Central and Eastern Europe: Bariša Čolak, Mladen Bosić, Munib Jusufović, Alma Čolo, Nermin Mandra, Nebojša Radmanović, Ljubica Miljanović, Predrag Kožul, Nada Mladina, Jakov Galić, Mira Pekić. 23 members of the Asia Group: Lazar Prodanović, Munib Jusufović, Zlatko Miletić, Nikola Lovrinović, Saša Magazinović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Mirko Šarović, Branislav Borenović. Members of the Group for Africa and Middle East countries: Marina Pendeš, Sredoje Nović, Safet Softić, Adil Osmanović, Mijo Matanović, Dragan Mektić. Members of the North and South America Group, Australia, Oceania and Japan: Lidija Bradara, Mladen Bosić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Obren Petrović, Zlatan Begić, Damir Arnaut, jasmin Emrić and Dragan Bogdanić. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item seven of today's agenda, Ad. Seven. Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, submitted by the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption, No. 05/8-34-1841/18 of 01.08.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u941	I apologize to the chairman, I think if the appointed candidate has passed in the House of Representatives, that he has... _________(?) He didn't make it. [[no microphone turned on]] All right, nothing then, I think he's passed the appointed one, if he's passed, then there's no need for anyone else to vote... I'm sorry. _________(?) Just two minutes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] _________(?) Five minutes. [[no microphone turned on]] [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u943	The Bošnjak go in the package, and it looks like we have to go individually. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u944	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 25
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u945	Okay, okay, okay. [[Common discussion]] But it has to go individually...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u947	Thank you very much. Since the pause has been, the longer we consult like this, the longer we will be in voting procedures, the more we will have to respect the Rules of Procedure and vote each and every one of us, so I ask you to continue our work. Dear colleagues, and all of us from the technical services that we need right now, so we're going to have seven more individual votes, see what the mood is, which is why I'm asking you just for a little bit of attention to go in the first round and then we can do it a little faster all together. So please initiate voting procedures for candidate Mladen Mičić. Thank you. Attending 13-no one for, 7 versus, 6 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 5 abstentions. Republika Srpska - 3 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority, the candidate hasn't passed. Please initiate voting procedure for candidate Aleksandar Faladžić. Thank you. At present 13 – versus 8.5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 5 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 against. There is no general majority, the candidate has not received the required number of votes. Thank you very much. Run the voting procedure for candidate Zoran Kovačević. Thank you. Attending 13-no one for, versus 8, abstention 5. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 5 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 against. There's no general majority, the candidate hasn't passed. Run the voting procedure for candidate Sreto Pekić. Thank you. At present 14 – against 8.6 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 4 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 against. There is no general majority, the candidate has not received support. Coming through, voting for candidate Duško Drljača. Attendance 14 - 8 versus, 6 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 4..., 6 abstentions, excuse me. Republika Srpska – 4 against. There is no general majority, the candidate has not received support. We move to vote for candidate Dragan Bašević. Thank you. Attendance 14 - 8 versus, 6 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 6 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 against. There is no general majority, the candidate has not received support. 26 We move on to the last candidate today, we vote for candidate Ranko Grahovac. Thank you. Attending 14 – v. 8, abstention 6. The Federation of BiH – 4 versus, 6 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 against. There is no general majority and this candidate has not received support. I find that none of the candidates on the list, eight of them, have received support. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the eight-day agenda, Ad. 8. The delegation initiative of Zlatko Miletić, which reads: “In line with Articles 9 and 154. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit an initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers – the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to hasten out financial resources to resolve the status and problem of the Central Medical School of the Catholic School of John Paul II in Bihac, issue: 02-50-6-2123/19 of 09.12.2019. You received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples, it did not support this initiative. I give my word to my colleague, Majkić, if there is any need. There isn't. Thank you very much. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative. Comrade Miletić, you have certainly signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u949	Thank you very much, President. I want to say a few words, and I think these kids at the Catholic School Center deserve it, and given that I've already talked about it, since we've been doing it for a long time, I'm really not going to bother you with certain facts, but I want to point out a few things. First I have to get to the representatives of the Council, and I see the minister here, to thank her for her patience sitting and waiting, I got the answer when it comes to the financial segment of solving this problem. I have to say, I'm not satisfied with the 20 thousand marks that were given, if I'm not mistaken, in the eighth month of 2019, this center. Why? Simply because, say, we've spent a lot more money on BHANSA's admission, if I'm not mistaken for over 300 thousand marks or thousands, whatever you want, we've paid for that ceremony, with this money this school could work for two years, even though our people will say everything is in accordance with the law, everything has been planned in the budget, etc. I'm just saying this from an aspect of ethical and moral character. What I'm saying is, I have to say that I disagree with the Commission's opinion, first of all for reasons, even though my colleague Marina suggested it to me first and I know it, I'm not legally ignorant, the system of education or education is essentially in the jurisdiction of the canton, or county, and that's a question I understand. Respecting my colleagues when it comes to the work of the Commission and you sitting here, I just want to inform you of two or three things, and then judge whether this kind of initiative should be adopted or not. 27 What is important to point out to address this problem, that in 12.06. means here a few days ago, the UN-Sancan Canton Assembly has solved this issue and unfortunately with, there have been two votes missing that this school, and this is what people have been trying to do since 2013, put into the system of education of the Unsanican Canton. Unfortunately, the people there failed, and now I can only prejudge what is the reason or those individuals in the Canton Assembly, including the government of Canton, want to humiliate the founder, and in this case it is the Banja banjalučki diocese and Mr Komarica, in a way that simply does not allow people to exist as such, even before, after the completion of that Assembly, responsible persons, I spoke to them this morning, individual persons, not to name them, have suggested that the school close or that children be prescribed to the Bihaq High School of Medicine. What's interesting about it, and that's why it's actually coming out for the word? If that decision of the Assembly of the UN-San canton, I must say that it is contrary to their Constitution, I have here with me, Chapter II of Article 1 and Chapter IV of Article 2 and Article 14 of the Constitution of the Federation and Chapter II relating to human rights and freedoms and Article 2 d) relating to discrimination and point m) of education. So no one has the right, including the Canton Assembly, or the government of the Unsanitary Canton, to make these children who are there, and there are over a hundred of them, disabling education in that way. To make the situation worse than the total number of high school students, so there are a hundred of them, so they have enrolled students in the year III and IV, people now simply don't know how to behave and can't call for a new generation in first grade high school. Indeed, I ask you once again, and I especially ask the Minister and you, the chairman, to help resolve this issue, but indeed these children deserve your help. So, out of that total number of students, simply to inform you, 20% are children of Croatian nationality, and 80% are children of Bosniak and Serbian nationality. What comes to mind to me is that if a man were to express himself with the right words, but I still have to watch out for it if I’m an envoy of this House, that we’re somewhere private I would call them fascists, but what people do is clean, so discrimination and these actions are the opposite of all three constitutions from Canton to the state of BiH and I really can’t understand that people are harassing about 2013 until today that someone doesn’t simply finish to put it into the system of UN-San canton High Schools. So, there's only one request for you, or for you ministers, I ask you to do so, to give me any official response from the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, and I will now inform you, on this matter, I will inform the competent court and ask that a provisional measure be taken by the court, given that this behaviour in, and as far as we tolerate this tomorrow will happen to us to Canton of Sarajevo or some other canton, it may be the children of some other nationality, and I really consider this to be inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u950	Thank you. kolegica Pendeš, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u951	...the president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear guests. I've reported on one basis, and that's only apropo's initiative. Last time at the Committee, I said that when we talk about education, no matter what education it is, that it is the direct jurisdiction of the canton when we talk about the Federation of BiH. Since it is a canton that is part of the Federation of BiH, then it is the constitutional jurisdiction of the canton to take care of education. I am pleased that here is the Minister of Civil Affairs and based on these statements or 28 better said facts which are presented here will surely launch certain activities in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution against those who prevent children from being educated in language, and they are right, it is about children who are educated in the Catholic school centre. Which is why I was also against this initiative at the Finance Committee, for the simple reason that BiH, the Council of Ministers' budget, actually do not have constitutional competence over education in the counties, because I believe that the minister's role in this case or the Ministry of Civil Affairs is more co-ordinated. On the other hand, I would ask my colleague if, even if we were talking about ethics, there's no point in mentioning BHANSA, I'm not saying this because of BHANSA, but I'm saying because of the way the BHANSA funds are provided, and in that sense we can't say that it's from budget funds, is it? In that sense, I don't think we should support the initiative, tomorrow another initiative will come from, perhaps I... may be in a position to propose certain initiatives, I think we should define ourselves in the Constitution, law, constitutional and legal jurisdiction and budgets.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u952	Thank you. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u953	It is my opinion that this is a concrete, practical initiative and that there is no reason why we do not support it today. What I'm trying to say about this initiative is that this country and people in this country can't move forward at all if we're not able to win those ethnic shackles, number one. So, something that's related to the Catholic school center, if it's helping children, no matter what religion or nation, there's no reason not to be supported by all the clubs in the House of Nations. It is probably not some huge financial asset, it is spent here in Parliament for seven days for the most ordinary national team, and therefore there is no excuse not to point those funds towards this institution in the manner explained by counterpart Miletić. The other big problem why we can't move forward is political vanity. Unfortunately, especially in this term, the most just proposals often fall because they have been proposed by someone else. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care who's first name and last name, but I'm only interested in what he's proposing. If the proposal is good, there's no reason not to support it. So, I want to support this proposal by fellow Miletić, I think it's a positive signal, it's a positive message for people in BiH. The way I interpret vital national interface is that children are the most vital national interest of all of us and in this House and that is why I will vote without any dilemma for this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u954	Thank you. To correct the wrong allegations, Mr Dragan Čović. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u955	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in the last seven to ten years, at least twenty times I've been to this school center and at least so many times a year we've tried to launch initiatives to address the issue of funding this center. I suggest you return to the frameworks of the law, within the frameworks of the law just like that, in constitutional frameworks in accordance with the competences, and the capacity that you have as promoters here use in the county or these UN-San canton and solve the same problem in five minutes regarding the Catholic school centre. Only the political capacity of your parties you have, but at the next session of the assembly, the government, you solved the financing problem. So let's not drag on the institution, which for several years has been loathing in the inability to reconcile obligations towards its employees and for this school and the other one that binds to this Catholic school centre, since 90% of children there are not Croatian nationalities, means that they should not be alluded to that national note, but to the needs of children, as you fellow Bećirović pointed out in the end. And if you really want to do that, here's how many of you are sitting here watching you now, you have 80% of the capacity in the government, in the executive and legislative authority of the county that is constitutional, by law competent to help finance, and so far we've addressed them in my personal name from different institutional levels where I've been, at least twenty times. Well, here's a chance for you to do it both by the Constitution and by the law and in a way that you can really get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u956	I thank Dragan Čović for his year. Munib Jusufović reported for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u957	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I did generally immediately plead to support this school centre and even think that some things have been dragging myself for several years and I've been involved in, but Mr. Čović took away my part, what I thought too, if we really honestly think we're helping, then there's a way, I don't think this is the way. It's not the way for tomorrow to show up similar demands a million, and it's not the jurisdiction of this, and then we're gonna get caught up in a chicken house. If we constructively think of doing so there are a few solutions and I'm going to do something and repeat it, it's, in the Assembly of UN-San canton, in the executive power, participating, Mr Miletić I don't know I am, you're still a member of the DF, I know approximately there's a DF part of the government, part of the government and the SDP. For clarifications, for others not to fall out, there is not only the SDA and SBB, so we can't directly, here and support that in a way that is provided by the Constitution, but here I suggest because I think we should help that institution. I will personally take over and I think that some support in the Federal Parliament, given that the Uno-San canton as an executive government, will suggest to the Federation government that we consider any part of this assistance and we can institutionally import it, but here, it's hard to put it in space here. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u958	Thank you, colleague. The non-maintainment of the established daily one is likely to be mispressed, but nevertheless, probably correcting the wrong quote. 30 fellow Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u959	I'm sorry, I must have pressed wrong. I'm also going to give an explanation about my colleague and you. I'm the only one here who doesn't have a political party and I don't have anyone to call, even though I did, some people I knew in the U.S. Canton Assembly, I begged them to do it, unfortunately at the time of the vote they were leaving the room and they didn't vote. So, I ask you, President, if you've been on the opportunity so many times, it doesn't have to be mine, let it be HDZ, no matter whose, but let's really help these kids, here I am asking you once again.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u960	Thank you. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u961	It would be unclear, first of all, that our colleague submitted this proposal according to the Rules of Procedure's remarks on the work of the People's House, and as such we are considering today a concrete proposal in line with the Rules of Procedure, with a very clear definition. I am absolutely not interested in what the authorities of a canton in the Federation of BiH are doing right now, because this is not on the agenda, there is a concrete proposal on the agenda, with a concrete solution and I said I would support it. On the other hand, I think it would be a good idea if we had the strength to fight in the House of Peoples against our kind of subjective culture, so we could just defend what's from my political party and attack against what's not from my political party. This is the proposal I'm going to vote on and I'm going to vote for, if there's an even better and even more competitive proposal I'm going to support it, I absolutely don't care what kind of party I belong to if it doesn't solve the problem. So these are two different views of political life in BiH, I will support every proposal that at least one step goes forward in solving any problems, and since it is here, it is the children that is the reason more that we all support it together today.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u962	Thank you, as a representative of the Bosniak people in the House of Nations, you have made your point. My kolegica Pendeš, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u963	Thank you. I just wanted to show Mr. Bećirović that now he's himself, to say, denied himself in the way he said he should win the ethno shackles, political vanity, and that, just before he told him, he doesn't care what's at the lower levels of government, and I think he should be interested, because that's one of the reasons why he doesn't get past his initiatives. Last time, he did not pass the apropo task with the Council of Ministers, to carry out an analysis that led young people to leave BiH. Because if he were a thoughtful politician, he would, through his own, the structure of the party at entity, or county level, at least as far as the Federation is concerned, through ministers who are in his, in power, here in the Federation, not in all cantons, ask that question, and apropo I think that 31 should be serious, framed, respected by law and constitution, whether they are ever satisfied or dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u964	Thank you. Comrade Jusufović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u965	Thank you very much. It is true that if we are looking at the business, colleague Bećirović, that we can do business drowning whatever we want, we can now talk about Mars, Jupiter and others in the process and say that it is all legalistic, yes, but these things are very subtle, these people need to be helped and they need to find a way to help them, not because there is legalism, not... whether this or that political party. I've only mentioned this for others who don't know who's in power, so I mentioned, you're out later. Because it's still a shame to those authorities, I know a little bit more about that school center, why they haven't done it before. And I'm telling you now, come on and I'm going to throw, but I'm not going to be so unserious as to burden this House of Peoples, but I'm going to go with initiatives that really make sense, and not now that you're giving us lessons, that's what I'm going to support. Well, I'll support this a thousand times, if it has any effect, but I'm going down the road to help people, so I think if it didn't work out there, then we'll try something through the Federation, let's see, because they do, it can be included in the government's jurisdiction. And if all of these or similar... no matter how justified it is, it will appear tomorrow from Republika Srpska from the entity also requires a million, so we will say no, and again from some other parts of the Federation. So let's look for a way to solve it, not banalize it now, it turns out that I should justify myself for what I said earlier, I have no intention. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u966	Thank you. Comrade Bećirović, please. The second correction to the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u967	So I think we should understand the context in which we operate here in the House of Peoples, and the context is such that from the session to the session, here's another year in this mandate, all possible proposals fall, not only from fellow Miletić, from Bećirović, here's Zvizdić had a proposal on VAT, fell down, legal proposals fall, everything collapses alive, in such a context and make such an atmosphere a precedent and at least on this issue show a positive signal, I think that's okay. No one said and it's a false allegation that he's not interested in lower levels of government. I specifically spoke of this as a concrete proposal on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly agenda, as I will support any other proposal that means a step forward in solving any problem in BiH. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2020-06-25-0.u968	Thank you. I can't see the debate anymore. There would be a lot of corrections of these and such allegations here, but personally I think we have said what we needed for everyone who felt, I don't see here patiently, I'll wait a little longer, I don't see the need for debate, or interest in them, and that concludes the debate on this topic. I hope these children, as well as many others, get the conditions that they can normally work in this country in accordance with the regulation of this country, the Constitution and the law. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Present __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
