ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5716	Dear ladies and gentlemen of parliament, distinguished members of the BiH Council of Ministers, honored guests, I open the 7th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and we will listen to Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. The foreign ministry informed us that Minister Turković and Deputy Brkić were unable to attend the session. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] They also justified their absence by distinguished representatives Đonlagić, Darijana Filipović and Mirsad Kukić. At present, 35 MPs are present, and I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Dragan Mektić of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Adil Osmanović of the BiH Council of Ministers; Nermin Nikšić Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH; jasmin Emrić Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and Damir Arnatu, Minister of Justice of BiH. Now we can start by asking oral parliamentary questions and giving committees. First I give the word to MP Dragan Mektić, to ask a question in oral form. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5717	Thank you, Chairman. I am asking my parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers or more specifically to say to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and why it is allowed to be carried out, under quotes, to remember the personnel of Serbians in security agencies. We currently have such a situation that in no security, or intelligence or police agency, we do not have a Srbin who performs the position and function of directors. Therefore, the position of the minister is no longer as it was, that he was a Srbin head of the ministry, was allowed to lose the position and director of SIPA, the State Protection Agency, to allow the chairman of the Committee on Parliamentary Oversight to have no Srbin head of the Agency, in the Committee, or in the Commission for Parliamentary Oversight, or for defence and security there are no Srbin at the head of the agency, so that literally no position in the security sector now belongs to someone in the order of the Serb people. I ask the question – why is this allowed, why have we come into such a situation, and how will the situation change? Thank you. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5718	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5719	Mr. Chairman, members of the working presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, guests, media representatives. Let me say that it is good that the MP today explained what positions he is referring to, because on the basis of what we have received, I could not tell what the problem is, that is, what kind of memory of the personnel in the security agencies happened, as MP Mektić said. What I want to say now at the very beginning, after my source for the Council of Ministers chairman, a large number of employees appeared with a desire to talk to me, mostly members of the Serbian people and many of them were coming, the largest number came from the Ministry of Security. ... the big meeting was held by my associates, some of them and me and all those employees were talking just about that the position of Srbin in the Ministry of Security is bad, that of the eight positions that exist in the Ministry of Security, which are not minister and deputy ministers, only belong to two Srbin and pointed to the situation that the position of Srbin in the Ministry of Security is much worse than, say, in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Of course, I considered it a situation that it was an employee's position and mostly the one who went and I did when I left, and every one of us when you left your employees, you got some negative comments. Trying to check what MP Mektić asked, I asked the Ministry of Security to deliver the information, I'll read briefly what they informed me, and I'll pass it on to you. The national structure in the Ministry of Security, as well as in agencies, i.e. the administrative organisation of the Ministry of Security, is identical from the moment of appointment of the new Council of Ministers' meeting to this day. Which means that nothing has changed since 23 December in the leadership positions of the Ministry of Security and the agencies within the Ministry of Security. What happened at the Ministry of Security is that the minister of security suspended two ministerial assistants for the conduct of the criminal procedure of Agić Samir and Stanić Radenko and in their places gave authority to conduct the competition and to complete the process against one representative, it is two ladies, one of the order of the Bosniak, one of the Serb people, so that the position of Serbia was maintained under two, two positions of a total of eight positions in the Ministry of Security. What you are talking about when it comes to the SIPA director, you know that the director of the SIPA on December 04th before the Council of Ministers' election left the post because of the end of the term of office, and at this point in BiH there are at least 20 agencies that perform the functions of directors and deputy directors that have expired their mandates. Motives why Mr. Stanić went and left that position and that place belonging to the Serbian people I never found out and in agreement with the minister of security, the minister of security proposed a new candidate from the list of successfully ending the election contest of the SIPA director and proposed Dark Ćulum for the post. At one session, I apologize only to the chair, at the session of the College, which makes up my two deputies and I, a proposal was set out to appoint Mr Darko Ćulum as head of the SIPA and many other positions related to human policy launched in the previous meeting of ministers. Consensus was reached, after two days, Minister Turković came and said the Party of Democratic Action wants further consultations on staff issues and since then there has been no 3 consent to the appointment of the SIPA director. I repeat, the SIPA director resigned and left before the Council of Ministers was elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5720	Thank you. Representative Mektić, would you like a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5721	... to say that I am not satisfied with this response, first of all because former SIPA director Mr. Perica Stanić has not resigned, nor left SIPA, but has been resolved because of the end of his term to retire, so by law. But as of December 23rd, so far, here for three months, so you should and could have done the appointment of a new SIPA director, especially since the previously Independent Police Committee has already completed a complete procedure and delivered a list of successful candidates. Is what you didn't name, it's now another problem or what you won't name or what you want to keep this status quo until further notice. The other thing, we lost more of the positions we really needed and we could get, and that's parliamentary oversight of the work of the Intelligence Agency, where someone needs to come from. I'll finish right away, from the opposition. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But, Mr. Chairman, the votes of your political party did not come to that position, but someone else came, so you left that position. I suppose, on that basis, I conclude that you are deliberately removing Srbin from security agencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5722	I give the word to the honourable representative Osmanović, the oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5723	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Please explain to me on what legal, constitutional or legal basis or decision of the Council of Ministers of BiH you took part in consultations held on 20.02.2020 in the building of the Administrative Centre of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in eastern Sarajevo with a member of the BiH Presidency, Mr Milorad Dodik? Also, I am looking for information, and as it is known to the public, which is also photographed, that a number of state officials from Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions participated in consultations in eastern Sarajevo. Is it true, as some media have announced, that they are the same phone calls from your office to attend a meeting? I cite that civil servants should be impartial, especially to avoid activities or failure to perform their professional duties and who are infringing or incompatible with the duties laid down by the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and refrain from publicly expressing their political beliefs, and that they should not follow the instructions of political parties, all in accordance with the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5724	Thank you very much. Mr. Osmanović, your pathways are basically composed of about two questions and several findings, so I'm going to try to divide it into two questions and two or three findings and give an answer to this. First of all, on what basis did I attend consultations with a member of the Bureau, Mr. Dodik? I really hope no one here thinks that the chairman of the Council of Ministers needs someone's decision to talk to any member of the BiH presidency and hold a meeting. We hope that no one expects BiH to have such a council of ministers, or if anyone else expects someone from Republika Srpska to come and not be in a meeting with a Serbian presidency member, then I think you can't find such two people in Republika Srpska or at least you can't find two who can win the election. Whether and on the basis of which I attended, of course if you look at the Council of Ministers Act, I have clearly defined the position of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Bureau, as I respond to the calls and talks of the other two members of the Bureau, so was this meeting with Mr Dodik, the Serbian member of the Presidency, and this was a joint meeting, and it was not my consultation with President Dodik, but mine and his meetings with the people who are employed there. Is the staff invited from the cabinet of the chairmanial council of ministers? Yes, they were called from my kabinet because I invited them. I invited them to clear up some things, because there were a lot of calls in my Kabinte that people would react. And I really hope that no one thinks that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has the right to call for these people's meetings. Someone whom you appoint, someone whom we approve of the budget, to whom we approve the work programme, and someone who submits the work report must respond to the meeting, so the largest number of employees we have called for this meeting. As far as your findings are concerned, I agree that civil servants should be impartial, and that is my call always and now publicly to all civil servants to be impartial in their work, that was the invitation we had at that meeting. The conclusion that we refrain from making public our political beliefs, absolutely consensual and now I call on all employees of the Council of Ministers, in institutions, any of the institutions not to publicly express their political beliefs when they are doing their jobs, is also said at the meeting. And yes, the finding that I can't follow the instructions of my political parties, absolutely consensual. At that meeting, organised by President Dodik, as SNSD president and I as a member of the SNSD, were the least members of the SNSD. You're witnessing that there were mostly people there that you named in the previous session, and you know that The previous meeting of the Council of Ministers, members of the SNSD, could only be relieved of their duties and could not be appointed, but this was not a conversation of political like-minded people, but of people from Republika Srpska who had the conclusions of the National Assembly. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5725	Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić, please. Ah, commentary. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5726	Dear Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija, you have long been a member of Republika Srpska's government, elected to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, here you were elected late last year as chairman of the Council of Ministers, sworn in the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You are not bound by the conclusions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, therefore, if anything can oblige you, these are the conclusions of this Parliament and the conclusions of the Council of Ministers. If you had already invited civil servants to this political meeting, why didn't you invite someone Mat, someone Ilija, someone Sulejman, someone Suad, and then you'd say it was really in line with the State Service Act, professionally, you've targeted and selected government officials and brought them into such an uninvited sub-situation and position. When you had exposés, you said you would not allow the BiH Council of Ministers to be dragged into some political waters, this was a purely political gathering, how to obstruct the work of the Council of Ministers, which you have not regularly called upon for a long time and how to obstruct the work of this Parliament, and I believe it is a clean, clean political gathering that neither you nor the civil servants should have been present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5727	Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5728	Mr. Chairman, since the minister has justified her indifference, I will send in writing not to burden myself here now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5729	Thank you. Representative Emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5730	I thank the chairman. I have a question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, which reads – Does the bill on the sale of the vehicle issued on behalf of the buyer of the vehicle, which proves ownership in accordance with Article 6. The vehicle registration Regulation must include, as a matter of fact, the stamp of a company or a company selling vehicles in one of the European Union countries, even though companies or companies no longer use the seal in their business? Why am I asking this question? I ask for practical reasons, because we have a situation where companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina who import or buy vehicles in one of the European countries when buying from these European companies that sell vehicles receive an electronic invoice that does not have a seal print in its content. When Bosnia and Herzegovina's companies execute imports, customs duties and access to the registration of that purchased vehicle, then the competent authority for the registration of a vehicle account which is electronically processed without seal content shall not recognise. Since a large number of countries in the European Union, i.e. companies registered in the European Union, do not use the seal in the form of how it is the form and shape in Bosnia and Herzegovina, puts us in a position that vehicle registration officers assess whether this account received by our companies when buying that vehicle may be in accordance with Article 6. It has regulated evidence of the purchased 6 vehicles, i.e. proof of ownership of the purchased vehicle, so I think it is necessary for the competent ministry to clarify this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5731	They had an answer, but you got them so confused, I don't know if they're gonna do it now, so let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5732	COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORT OF BiH, the Honorable Chairman of the, respected presidency, respected MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers. I will read the answer immediately, given the answer above is next. Companies in the European Union countries in recent years are most often not using the seal in their business, within the meaning of the abovementioned competent vehicle registration authority in order to demonstrate ownership of the vehicle is obliged to appreciate the validity of the document delivered, respecting the way in which the business in the country from which the document is coming. We note that if it is an electronic signature of the document, it is also governed by the Law on the Electronic Signature of BiH "The Official Messenger of BiH" 91/06. Very clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5733	Now there is a comment on the answer – and where is the seal?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5734	It is clear to me, from this answer, that an electronically processed invoice without a seal print is valid evidence of ownership of the purchased vehicle and I would ask the Ministry to send such instruction to all the competent authorities that are registering the purchased vehicles for the reasons that this provision of Article 6. The regulations, so somewhere electronically processed, are accepted as valid evidence of ownership of the purchased vehicle and not somewhere else. So he would beg the Ministry to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5735	Thank you. Dear Representative Arnaut, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5736	Thank you, Chairman. The question of the Minister of Justice. So, I'm looking for information on what the BiH Justice Ministry is specifically
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5737	Just a little attention, please. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5738	What specifically did the BiH Ministry of Justice take on the realisation of the conclusions of the House of Representatives, not one few of them, therefore the conclusions of the House of Representatives, which is asked of the BiH Ministry of Justice to prepare and submit in the procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on VSTV? I would like to remind you that the first such conclusion was adopted in early 2017, that afterwards we had several conclusions of the same or similar nature, including the conclusion in June 2019, which required the Ministry of Justice to provide us with comprehensive information that all regulations need to be changed, etc. This, however, we still, as we know, do not have a draft law amending and supplementing the VSTV Act and therefore ask for information on the steps taken, concrete, therefore, is the working group formed, until it comes to work, why is there still nothing in the procedure on this matter and the like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5739	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As the honourable representative asked the question, I will not return in 2017. Here we go until 2019. In mid- 2019, we had a meeting between BiH Justice Ministers, Entity Ministers of Justice and the President of the Brcko District Justice Commission, where we discussed the way and the modes of further judicial reform in BiH, as well as how to improve joint work on the development of the necessary laws. It is agreed that the working group prepare a draft law on amendments and additions to the current law or a new draft of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in line with the Opinion of the Venice Commission, recommendations from the European Commission, recommendations from the Structural Dialogue on Justice between the EU and BiH, but also to consider any other initiatives delivered to the justice ministry in the past period. Given the importance of the work that has been done, it has been assessed justified to include in the preparation of this regulation a number of members, especially the holder of judicial functions, and, for the sake of the 10th month of last year, the Ministry of Justice called on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Supreme Court of entities, the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to deliver their representatives' proposals for work in this working group. After that, several meetings were held, and the next one is scheduled for next week. Given that the BiH Ministry of Justice is not the only holder of justice reform and that it must be established, but also implemented systematically, where all relevant experts will be involved in finding the mode of reform, I do not think that we can take on the role of an exclusive reformer without experts to create a text that we appreciate meets European standards and other requirements. Because the Ministry can look at only one aspect necessary for reform, but without experts working in the judiciary, we don't have a complete picture that we appreciate is necessary for an adequate reform that will have long-term positive results. It is clear from this that we have taken all the necessary and adequate steps to make up a good text of regulations that will satisfy citizens' expectations, the professional community, as well as European Union standards, so we will wait for the text of the draft laws drawn up by experts. Given the group's active work, I believe that their efforts will soon yield the expected results and will provide us with a proposal for a text with which we will go into further procedure. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5740	Okay. Comment on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5741	Thank you, Chairman. So, we obviously have a structural problem at the Justice Department, we just heard the minister of justice that there are no professional capacities in the Ministry of Justice for law making, which is really incomprehensible. The second thing, you can't go back to the Ministers in 2017. This House assigned you, you were also in the past meeting of the Minister of Justice to do so and you didn't respect the conclusion of the House. But then, if you please, I will return you to July 2019, on July 29, 2019, you made a statement, this, that the comprehensive, here I quote you, so – that the comprehensive amendments to the Law on VSTV will be in the process by the end of the year and that soon they will be able to declare the legitimate authority elected in the elections. The end of the year was before, here's a bill almost full of three months, so we have a structural problem at the Ministry of Justice, they have no capacity to make laws, and so are our deadlines, but also the deadlines that they set for themselves, and then Mr. Lovrinović wonders when MPs propose laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5742	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Namely, due to a technical error, my representative's question was not recorded, which I delivered on 04.03., which was set up to the ministers and ministers of Ankica Gudeljić, Staša Košarac, Vojin Mitrović, Josip Grubeša, Vjekoslav Bevanda and others, and which way did you, as BiH's leaders, give guidance to the employees regarding the recording of the presence at work on 09.01.2020, since it is generally known that none of the employees from the Serb people's ranks in the territory of Republika Srpska were present at the workplace that day? I ask that, with this reply, a copy of the record of your presence at work for the month of January 2020 for each organisational unit in the institution you manage, with those records it is necessary to provide an explanation, i.e. the legal basis for the registration of the absence as a DP, i.e. the State holiday, or information on how it is possible to record non-employment income as an eight if they were not present at the same time. Here, since I see no one to answer, then let it be in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5744	Okay, well, thank you to the esteemed representative. That's how we exhausted the questions. 9 Now we move on to the agenda. You have, of course, the agenda, as regards changes to the agenda, I would like to mention the following, from the agenda are downloaded: Point 22. Consideration of Damir Arnaut’s parliamentary initiative, which reads: “Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH I submit an initiative to amend and supplement the Rules on International Activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." A review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, we refer a parliamentary initiative to amend Article 5. The rules on the use of the phone in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly." Because the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs did not deliver an opinion. And it was removed from the agenda point 25. Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH I submit an initiative requiring the amendment of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs in the sense that MPs are not present for at least one session of the meeting during the current month, and I urge this initiative to encourage the Council of Ministers to refer to the parliamentary procedure amendments to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions in which this area would be precisely defined in such cases." The agenda point has been removed at the request of the Finance and Budget Commission. The other dots are on the proposed agenda you have. Now I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Prior to that, a respected representative of Arnaut, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5745	Thank you, Chairman. So, Article 35. Rules of Procedure regarding the call for committee meetings. This is the second time that two of my points are being downloaded because the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, and it's about saving, so it's not something that can wait. This, also one point of colleague Marinković-Lepić, because the Administrative Commission was not sitting, no session was called at all, so it was not that they called, so there was no quorum. And they hurried with a single one, except for that constitutive session, this one, to hold a session and to increase the number of advisors in cabinets, etc. to bring some privileges, and now that it's about saving, they don't even call. This is indeed unacceptable to remove savings points twice in a row because the commission has not been called up and therefore, since the College has tasked the Commission to carry out the debate and make a decision, I am really asking the College to then urinate the issue with the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5746	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, a discussion on the debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5747	Thank you, Chairman. Using my parliamentary opportunities here, which I have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House of Representatives, I propose to include in today's session another item of the agenda and that the House be declared, and the agenda point is – a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the function of the members of the Central Election Commission of BiH. I have here, therefore, a proposal in writing, I have a motion for a decision, I ask the Secretariat to take this and deliver it to you or what the procedure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5748	Okay, thank you. Dear Representative Zlatan Begić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5749	I thank the chairman. In a similar way as counterpart Mektić, for exactly the same reasons for showing the conditions for the pension of a member of the Central Election Commission, I also propose a agenda item on the termination of the BiH Central Election Commission member's post and the election and entry into office of a new member of the Central Election Commission. Here it is, if I can just service it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5750	Thank you. We don't have any more applications to discuss the proposed agenda, but we haven't gotten your conclusions yet, so here we are going to wait a little while to get it. [[Waiting for the conclusions to be delivered]] Can you at least bring us those conclusions here, then share them with the MPs, see what it's all about. Let's hurry up, share it as soon as possible. Here's a five-minute break, who wants to go to the bathroom or somewhere while these conclusions are shared, five, six-minute breaks, let's go. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5753	Thank you very much. Here is because we are at the adoption of the agenda and have proposed certain changes of staff in the Central Election Commission, I would like to remind this House, that this House was appointed two sessions ago by the Committee for the Opening of the tender procedure for the selection of members of the Central Election Commission, two Hrvat, two Bošnjak and one Srbin. In this commission, appointed by this House, as members of the Administrative Commission, I am a member, counterpart Nebojša Radmanović and colleague Safet Softić. Yesterday, we had, that is, the day of our session, a constitutive session at which I was elected to chair this Committee for the Selection and appointment of CEC members. Yesterday we had a second session where we adopted the minutes, adopted the Rules of Procedure on the implementation of public competition and the appointment of the members of the Central Election Commission, made a proposal for a decision on the opening of a public tender, made a proposal for a public tender for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission and made a proposal for a public tender application and set everything in the procedure for publication. So I remind all these MPs here, who are calling for the rule of law, of the rule of law, of the functioning of the rule of law, of the democratic institutions that they have in mind this time. The law, Election Law and election law, members of the Central Election Commission cannot be replaced as parliamentarians in time until election results have been implemented in that term. I do not think it should remind you here that the election results have not been implemented and that only in accordance with the law can the mandate of the current members of the CEC and in accordance with the public procedure, I hope, appoint new members of the Central Election Commission. I thank and hope that this House will not bring down the institutions of democratic decision-making when it comes to the Central Election Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5754	Thank you. Dragan Mekitić, repair of the roof quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5755	Thank you, Chairman. My correction to the wrong allegation refers to the discussion of your esteemed deputy, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. The electoral law has made clear, clearly specified this norm in Article 26, Article 25(6) and in relation to Article 26(2) of the Law of Elections, it is necessary to complete the procedure before the end of the term of office, so to speak, the competition and 30 days before the end of the term of office to deliver the candidates to the House of Representatives for consideration, i.e. adoption. If this is not done within a specified time limit, the House of Representatives will appoint members of the Election Commission. And the law is crystal clear, crystal clear. If we had ended their term of office for 30 days, if Parliament and the commission had submitted a proposal for candidates, that would have been okay, and now that after the 30 days that the commission is doing, it doesn't even know the law. They ran out of mandate, some a year ago, some a few months ago, etc. The Commission was to work and finish the job 30 12 days before the end of the term of office, otherwise the House of Representatives will appoint members of the CEC and I think this is fully in line with the Electoral Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5756	Okay, thank you. I've got a signal from the club chief, so he'd like to take a break, but here's to Article 83. I'm giving a break by 7:00, see you in half an hour here. [[PAUZA]] Okay, we can get started. We are going to continue the session, we have registered representatives Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, Stevandić and Đapo. Here you go, Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5758	I will discuss the proposal to introduce a new item on the agenda by two basiss. The first is, as far as the material itself is concerned, which I, as an MP, and which I have to make known about, I can say next. I can believe it or not believe it, and from these materials, I certainly can't determine whether these people and on what basis the mandate has expired at all, or the letters of reasoning, on any basis, or any of these six or five people, I can't determine whether or not I know, or at this point in my duty to know whether or not they've expired their mandate, and it's not visible from the material. That's one. Two, assuming it's expired, that someone thinks they've expired my mandate as counter-arguments of the following fact. Namely, the Election Law at this time claims that the current members of the electoral law(?) are still in office, and by two basiss, by two members, I quote the following, in Article 2.15(4), paragraph 4 of the apology, the following is said – if a member of the Election Commission stands out in the election period, his term of office is extended until the end of the election period, i.e. until the election results are confirmed, as Mrs Krišto also spoke of. The election period is very clearly defined by Article 1.1a. Point 12, which says – that the election period implies a period from the day of the election to the day of confirmation of the election results. We don't have confirmed the results of indirect elections for the president and vice president of the Federation and may my colleagues forgive me, I don't know, a clear enough picture of the situation in the cantons, forgive me for that, but we definitely don't have confirmed results at this time and members of the Electoral Commission are in office on this basis. Members of the Election Commission are in office on one more basis, which is defined by a member, I would ask for a little peace, please, in Article 2.2.5, and point 9. which says, in the event that the House of Parliament does not carry out the procedure set out in Article (6) of this article, members of the Central Election Commission will continue to carry out their duties until the appointment of new members of the Central Election Commission. Mrs Krišto explained in her presentation the stage in which the procedure for the appointment of new members of the Electoral Commission is, so that, until the procedure is implemented and based on this, the current members of the Central Election Commission are in office. 13 The next thing I want to say is, the next thing you know, just to ignore all this right now, I want to say something from the suggestions that came here, at least what I know. In this regard, Article 2(6), (5), (2) and (2) are said to be the following – that candidates for the Central Election Commission are jointly proposed by the members of the Commission for Selection and Appointation, and the candidates for the CEC will be legal experts with experience in the conduct of elections or election experts and cannot carry out their duties in party bodies. From this particular proposal, neither we know who these people are, nor do they have any of what is referred to in Article 2.5(2), and the only thing we know reliably is that the gentleman who is scheduled here is, in fact, point 2 for the members of the Election Commission, Jovan Kalaba of the order of Srbin, at this point the President of the Constitutional Commission of the Democratic Progress Party, therefore performs his duties in the party's bodies, was a candidate in the local elections for 2012 ahead of the party and performs his duties and was a prominent candidate and member of the party. This is what is certainly known, and it is also not possible to know whether any of this is the necessary qualification provided for by a member, i.e. by the position (2) of Article 2.5. And the next thing I know, it doesn't stand, I didn't want to put the false allegation on Mr. Mektić, who calls for Article 2.5, so the position (6) that the House of Representatives, in accordance with the procedure, appointed the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly as members of the CEC from the candidate list, "from the list of candidates". If this list is not delivered to the House of Representatives, then you can go to some procedure, the wording is understood that there is a list of candidates, but that has not been delivered. [[the speaker is warned on time]] At this point, we have no basis for having this decision, so the macaque, and if it is made, these two decisions are legal, and I'm not talking about other processes that are being opened to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5759	Thank you. Branislav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5760	Very briefly, the correction of the wrong allegation, since the Party of Democratic Progress is listed, is Mrs Smiljana Smiljana-Babić-Moravac, elected to the last PDP Assembly more than half a year ago, so I don't know where you found it, and I ask you not to disclose information that is not correct, and that is why I signed up for correcting the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5761	Stavandić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5762	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I'm telling you that at the end of the discussion, I'm going to suggest that this session be interrupted, that its continuation be prepared, and that before that, one thematic session will be held with the Council of Ministers on this situation with the Coronal Virus, which is just this day, while we've been having a little fight and making new coalitions, and that we tell each other this, this one, we've been making whistles, taking some more, I don't know, 200, 300 lives around us, just in Italy for the last 136 hours. Bosnia and Herzegovina currently stands well, and I think it should be well maintained by some of our 14 participations in this good, not by our participation in what we are doing today. But that's what you consider a club proposal that we can plead at the end of my presentation. And now to tell you something very serious, respected colleagues from the SDA, we know that Mr. Mektić has no capacity to present this proposal and we know that if you vote this proposal will be, or voted on, it is quite clear. I must tell you that with all due respect to the size, power of the party, and everything you have, you play too much with this country and this Parliament. You disputed the appointment of a Serbian nation's minister and directly endangered what this state is on. You have not allowed one nation, as all other nations have received their kind of verification and one assistant minister. You didn't even let anyone just because he was elected director of the SIPA from the Serb people's ranks, even though all procedures were completed. Now you're making a second coalition with your PDP and SDS colleagues in line with your current needs to try to control the CEC. It is not a single country that is concerned with the political needs of one party that will make one coalition in the morning for its needs and another coalition for its needs. I don't object at all to my colleagues from the PDP and the SDS, so I don't object to their political right, I don't object to what the candidates from your office, Mr. Šarović, are they, where she was counseling? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're not sure she was your advisor, you see, I'm sure. The second candidate from the Croatian people is from the cabinet of Mr Komšić, his adviser and the third candidate is from the PDP. It's all right, it has its own political legitimacy, just a moment, just a moment, for those who think that the state exists because of their needs and their combinations, that you will have to carry the legitimacy on your back without us. So playing with the violation of the law, during the drafting of the rules, the Commission met to elect CEC members, and you will support the lex specialis proposed at one point by Mr Mektić and without this Commission, without a procedure you will choose the CEC members in agreement with the opposition, and against those With which you have concluded an agreement at BiH level and with which you participate in the Council of Ministers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Previously on "The Council of Ministers"... and in the Council of Ministers... by challenging one minister... so that you don't get elected for your will... you'll try to destroy the intelligence sector... by holding down a candidate who doesn't have a degree... and you'll try to tie us all up in a knot here. We can't take part in that knot. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I guess I'm not ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5764	Three, three.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5765	Ah, I also signed up for the discussion, so you know, there. And as I said, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5766	jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5767	I thank the chairman. Mr Stevandić violated the Rules of Procedure because he did not say anything in line with the proposed agenda points, so when the proposed amendments are explained and the agenda is complemented, then the Proposer can only explain the proposed agenda point and not enter into the essence of the debate and explain in detail what is proposed. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have been broken and Members should be directed to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5768	Thank you. Edita Đapo, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5769	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you, co-chairs, colleagues and colleagues, as well as to all present in this room and to all those who follow this session. As a member of the Alliance for a Better Future, I will remind you that in all our statements, I think the representatives of the SBB, pointed out that we disagreed with this CEC summit and that we believe that we are the greatest victims of the electoral malversions that have taken place. So, the CEC replaced four to five thousand members of the electoral commissions before the elections and we believe that this is how we are damaged. However, I believe this is not a way to heal this institution, but to go into its even greater politicisation. What we're fighting for is that we have an independent and professional CEC. Secondly, I have to say that personally I can't vote for and I can't support a decision that just gives me names, I see that many of you know who these people are, I don't even know who they are and what I was expecting is, when we've already chosen a Commission that works on the selection of CEC members, which should propose a list, that with the list, along with names, we'll get ranked points and get biographies. That's why I just can't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5770	Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here we are for a while, as I was saying at that sixth session today that the fairies will pass us by, it looks like we'll be delivered by fairies. It's amazing, therefore, and I don't believe at all that you're going to put this to the vote, if you've appreciated the explanation presented by the deputy, so the president of the Committee. So at the previous session, we made decisions, this same House, to form a commission, to initiate a procedure, to work on it, so we're going past our previous decisions today. So, are we going to put the agenda on the agenda today to cancel the choice of committee, that we don't need a commission, that, I don't understand, I don't understand what we're doing. And I hope fellow responsibilities, especially to colleagues who make up the 16 parliamentary majority in this House and in this government, in this mandate, so it's enough to break up with this kind of work. Let's make a deal, let's sit down and talk, let's not make the same thing that we've passed the VSTV Act, the same thing that we're making various conclusions that are inconclusive, at first you know they're inconclusive, that's what I was saying today at the first point. I can't believe it, Chairman, I think you have the option, and you've done it before, not to put this proposal to the vote, because there are no conditions for that. So we don't need to vote them at all, because we've got an explanation for what we're doing right now. That would be, therefore, against ourselves we're doing, I don't understand what we're doing here at all, I hope you'll do it. So, there's no addition to the agenda from these two agenda points because they're not saved, that I'm not repeating myself now, so neither do we know who they are, nor what they are, whether the terms or whether these mandates are expired, so nothing is saved, so you can't even read those suggestions because they're fast written, so you can't even read what you want with that proposal. So, I suggest you don't put at all a vote on the addition of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5772	Thank you. It's not up to the chairman, as you know, that you've been in the Parliament for a long time, but... never, but predstavnički, there is no such recorded practice in this House. Sanja Vulić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5773	Thank you, Chairman. I, uh, because I don't like the facts being challenged by our club chief, because she's someone who absolutely checks all the information and doesn't say anything at all, I'm going to ask my colleague Borenović to tell us – is it true that before this meeting he was talking about, Mr. Jovan Kalaba was the entire mandate of the State Commission in the PDP and are you saying that, in the media, the inscriptions on the cutting of PDP personnel via Kalaba and you were personally journalistic insinuations and incorrect information? And as far as I can remember and how much information I'm being served in the city that I come from, the same gentleman contributed to the PDP's collapse in Doboj. What I'm going to ask all my fellow MPs is that no one ever says that they want fair elections, that they want the CEC without party influence, because what you've done now and these people you've proposed clearly says that you want to absolutely and completely control the CEC and that you absolutely want to make such a selection of who goes by, as well as how. What was disappointing to me, which I couldn't figure out at first when this coalition was with its colleagues from the U.S.A., because I see that it obviously doesn't work, I didn't realize why it didn't work, now clearly, obviously we don't, and we can't offer what colleagues from the PDP and the SDS can. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5774	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, discussion. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5775	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Well, I'm not going to quote here any provision of the Electoral Law, I'm not going to call on the Election Law, and it's already done here on several sides and in different ways, what's quite clear is that trying to put this point on the agenda, here's what's supposed to be, the appointment of potential members of the Central Election Commission and the resolution is very clear from this atmosphere that has here to deepen the political crisis in BiH. Maybe it's just a beat-down, maybe it's a muscle show of what we can or can't do, but deepening the political crisis in BiH at a time and in a situation where we are threatened by two other crises, seriously, we know which, the health crisis is already there with the coronary virus, the migrant crisis, the rewave of the migrant crisis we can expect. If we are serious and responsible people in this legislative body, we will not deepen the political crisis in BiH by any decision, but we will try to stabilise the political opportunities in BiH and that is the supreme responsibility of those who have formed power at the level of BiH, the Council of Ministers and all other bodies. I know that there are problems, I know that there are serious political gaps within those who are like the ruling majority in BiH, but lately when we need or should try to deepen the time that is here today in front of us, and that is why, indeed, colleagues and colleagues, I am not calling anyone individually, but I am calling at this moment, in this Parliament for responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5776	Dear Deputy, Mr. Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5777	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time we finish this, and I'll tell you why. I'm sure the promoters know they're doing an illegal proposal, besides what Mrs. Krišto said and some others, we're breaking our decision. We came in so seriously and I'm watching Mr. Softić yesterday at a session, how to dagger, how to choose the right people in the CEC without a party story and get into this situation with a proposal like this. It's not that political crisis, as Mr. Kožul says, but much, much more. It is now clear that yesterday no well-intentioned proposal was accepted not to hold a session when the pandemic was held, yesterday we did not know it would be declared, today it is and Dr. Stevandić did not say this nonsense. We can sit here and discuss it by morning, but if you have defined yourself, and we see that you have, that you are breaking the law, that you are deepening the crisis in BiH, then you will do so without us. We won't vote for this agenda, we won't vote for anything at all, we won't attend these sessions, and you who stay happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5778	Thank you. Dear Deputy Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5779	I'm sorry, but I just wanted to say that when I checked in earlier, I was reporting as president of the Committee, reminding the House of election rules and procedures, as well as the conclusions themselves. I am now reporting as a representative in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club of BiH, too, to say my position. With respect to what the colleagues have said and about the illegality of this entire proposal, which has been delivered in this way, given that it is the 18 proposals submitted here, I also cannot talk about the competence of some candidates, but I am convinced at this point that it is contrary to the provisions of the Electoral Law which speak in what way and under what conditions and criteria the members of the Central Election Commission are elected, except for those already members of the Central Election Commission's proposal, it is clear from everything that this proposal has been led with MP Dragan Mektić to conclude this decision in this way. I would like to say as a representative of the HDZ BiH, regardless of what I wanted to say in short consultation with my colleagues from the Club, everything you've intended to end up in this House, but I also consider joining colleagues who have said that this is not just a political crisis, this is, I would say, also the questions of the future of BiH. I just want to say to the SDA as a partner, as with someone with whom we are trying to build relations because of BiH's interest and future, so I want to say that they are responsible for this decision, because this is the decision they are currently hiding behind and I want to say that in future processes we are not counting on HDZ BiH, it may not mean anything to you, but I also do not want to participate in creating these processes, because for me, this is a great damage to the reputation and future processes when it comes to BiH. So much so, if it continues with this kind of thing, I am also informing this House that we will leave this session and continue to decide our views. We may not be interesting to you, we may not be some political force, but the intentions that are being sent when it comes to the position of the Croatian people in terms of election of members of the Presidency are also being continued today with the election of members of the Central Election Commission. I don't mind if some Hrvat is competent, I don't know, I wouldn't be talking here, I can just talk about the Bosniak people project, here at this point led by both SDS and Mr. Mektić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5780	Thank you very much. So, we no longer have reported, we continue to work in accordance with Article 72, which provides that the House votes on any proposed amendment of the agenda, we will go to vote on the amendments and the addition of the agenda in the order they have come to. So, first of all, we express ourselves on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point proposed by MP Dragan Mektić and which reads – a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the role of members of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please make a statement. Thank you. Of the 37 – for 25, against 11, abstention 1. So there's a general and entity majority, the point is on the agenda. saći will make clear on the proposal to supplement the agenda proposed by MP Zlatan Begić, who reads – Decision-making on the election and entry into office and termination of the role of members of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please plead. Of the total attendance 37 – for 24, against 12, abstention 1. There is a general and entity majority, therefore the change and addition of the agenda has been accepted. 19 Which means that the 7th session has the next agenda, I will read it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5781	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5782	Okay. These points will now be new points 22 and 23, and these points of number 22 are moving, so the parliamentary initiatives begin. Here, therefore, we have the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the report on BHRT's work and business for 2018, applicant: BiH Radio-Television Management Board, issue: 01,02-50-18-1194/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 4. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 05/7-39-1-382/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 5. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, issue: 05/7-39-1- 289/20 of 27. 2. 2020; 6. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of residence in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-548/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 7. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of conditions of residence in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, issue: 05/6-50-18-293/20 of 27. 2. 2020; 8. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018, issue: 05/150-13-26-55-19 of 27. 2. 2020; 9. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018, issue: 05/2-50-12-237/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 10. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2018, issue: 05/3-37-4-227/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 11. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2018, issue: 01,02-50-18-777/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 2012. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2017, applicant: State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, issue: 01,02-50-19-1645/18 of 27. 2. 2020; 13. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2018, applicant: The National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18- 1273/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 14. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the 2017 Report on documents issued and denied for the issue of external trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose for 2017 and the report on the implementation of issued instruments for the external trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose in 2017, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1623/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 15. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on Information on the Annual Training Plan and training of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-2146/18 of 27. 2. 2020; 16. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the confirmation of the Decision on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police services in the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-50-18-1222/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 17. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative suggesting to the competent entity institutions, i.e. the institutions of the Brcko District (government and legislative bodies) to prepare and adopt amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of slander, in such a way as to integrate different standards of acceptance, tolerance and proof of alleged slander against public figures in relation to private persons, and in accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights," issue: 01-50-11490/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative which obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to analyse the impermeability of the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the equipment of the Border Police for better border control", number: 01-50-1-1519/19 of 27.2.2020; 19. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the material marked ‘confidential’, number: P-Pov-07-03-10-5-38/18 of 27. 2. 2020; 20. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the ‘confidential’ material number: P-OV-07-03-10-12-97/18 of 27. 2. 2020; 21. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on a ‘confidential’ material number: P-OV-07-03-10-12-71/19 of 27. 2. 2020; 22. Proposal for a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, Proposer: Representative Dragan Mektić, newly incorporated agenda point; 23. Proposal for a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of member of the Central Election Commission of BiH, proposed by MP Zlatan Begić; 21 24. A review of the Aida Baručija's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I refer to a parliamentary initiative which obliges the Council of Ministers to carry out an analysis of safety and technical equipment at train stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue: 01-50-1-1655/19 of 18. Nine. 2019; 25. Consideration of the Edita Đapo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs hold an urgent meeting with the Ministry of Administration and local self-government of the Republika Srpska, entity interior ministries and entity ministries of justice so that the status of children of returnees from Syria can be resolved as soon as possible, i.e. so that these children can enroll in their books and obtain BiH citizenship, and on this basis achieve their basic human rights," number: 01-50-1-334/20 of 5. 2. 2020; 26. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative requiring the College of the House of Representatives to carry out the necessary procedure, in cooperation with the College of the People's House, within 90 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, with the aim of regulating the issue of enforcement of the provisions laid down in Article 66. Parliamentary Oversight Act ( BiH Official Messenger No. 25/18), issue 01-50-1-428/20 of 12. 2. 2020; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Co-operation in the Search for Missing Persons between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, signed in Sarajevo on 11 October 2019, No: 01,02-21-1-436/20 of 14. 2. 2020; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the multilateral convention on the implementation of measures to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the relocation of profits relating to tax contracts (MLI), No: 01,02-21-1-497/20 of 20. 2. 2020; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in the realisation of the Sarajevo-Belgrade Road Project – Sarajevo signed in Belgrade on 13 December 2019: 01,02-21-1-498/20 of 20. 2. 2020; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan and Project Agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW), Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia d.d. Mostar (a project implementation agency) of 155.000,00 euros – Rehabilitation and modernisation of the pump-accumulation hydropower plant Capljina, issue: 01,02-21-1-499/20 of 20. 2. 2020. Okay, so we're moving on. The point of one agenda is, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've reached the record. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering. 22 Let’s move on, point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5786	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5787	Yes, Damir Arnaut, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5788	Thank you. So, I won very briefly, I asked the Director of the Border Police – why is there no special tape at border crossings at the entrance and exit from Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. a counter for BiH citizens, such as the practice in democratic countries, in European countries? And I got the answer that there's no resources, no cabins. However, there is a cabin for diplomatic passports, which is a practice in autocratic regimes. Therefore, I cannot accept it, lift the entrance for diplomatic passports, introduce a special entrance for BiH citizens, so all they have to do is change the record in that cabin. And, uh, by the way, I'm generally dissatisfied with what's-his-name. The answers I get from the Director of the Border Police, and I am completely dissatisfied with the fact that I don't keep getting answers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and here I am waiting for the chairman just to say, so I have a request for the College to urinate, so the Foreign Ministry is a disaster in the matter of non-response. Please urinate, I've already urinated several times, so it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5789	Thank you. I'm sorry, I had to sign this agenda, so we consulted. Thank you. Let's move on, point three, Ad. 3. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the report on BHRT's work and business for 2018, applicant: BiH Radio-Television Management Board, issue: 01,02-50-18-1194/19 of 27. 2. 2020. 23 After the last House session did not require an entity majority in the first round of the House College vote as a commission, it failed to reach agreement on the 2018 report on the work and business of BHRT. You've reached the Commission's report, the debate is over, and we'll make a statement later on on the report in the second round of voting. Point four, Ad. 4. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 05/7-39-1-382/19 of 27. 2. 2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5816	Thank you, Chairman. So, even so, given that this is an initiative, not a law, the House can ignore the Commission's opinion and accept this initiative. It is absolutely necessary, so we have the Law on Parliamentary Oversight adopted in April 2018, with the support of the OSCE and the work of a large number of MPs on the Law. This law has prescribed a series of criminal provisions unless the executive authorities respect Parliament's decisions, e.g. If we charge the Minister of Justice to do something within 90 days, he does not do sanctions are prescribed. These are fines that range from several hundred to thousands of marks, and they should serve this very parliamentary oversight in order for people to implement Parliament's decisions. It's a normal practice in all democratic countries. Article 66 of this Law says very precisely – within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will coordinate the existing or adopt new sublaws which will regulate the issues of the implementation of the criminal provisions of this Act. So we have the Law, we have sanctions, but these sanctions cannot be implemented because the Parliamentary Assembly has failed to fulfil the legal obligation of Article 66 to regulate the sublaws. So, it is a legal obligation, and I believe that, despite the vote of some of the members on the Commission, Parliament should support this initiative that is in charge of the College of this House to coordinate its sublaws in co-operation with the College of the People's House. So, what's controversial, the law has already ordered it, and here we're just going to order the College to find the mode to bring the sub-counal acts in line so that these criminal provisions can finally be implemented. 30 Otherwise, we will have an executive authority that will ignore the full conclusions that Parliament has imposed on her. Therefore, I really call on all my colleagues to support this, it is a legal obligation and it should have been fulfilled long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-1.u5817	Okay, thank you. Before we move to point 27, I suggest we unify the debate on points 27 to 30, given the fact that it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of agreements, conventions and protocols. We are voting on a motion to unite the debate. Thank you. Of the 26 present – for 26, nothing against, nothing abstention. We have a general and entity majority, so we have united this debate. You have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Now I'm asking you if you're gonna take five minutes off, then the vote, or you're gonna go to the polls right now. [[Common discussion]] So let's go right now, okay. Are the club chiefs ready? All right, let's go, please. Point 1. - The adoption of the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Of the 26 present – for 25, against nothing, abstention 1. We have a general and entity majority, the 5th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives was adopted. Point 3. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2018. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. Of the 26 – for 17, against 1, abstention 8. We have a general and entity majority, so a report on the work and business of BHRT for 2018 was adopted. 31 Point 4. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018. Only in the second round of adoption of the Report with the conclusion of the Commission – it is necessary to create adequate logistics support for full capacity and affirmation of the rights of national minorities in BiH in accordance with legal competences. Please make a statement. Of the total dock 26 – for 20, against nothing, abstention 6. We have a general and entity majority. The report has been adopted, therefore. Point 5. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019. So we're voting in the second round on adoption of the report with the same conclusion we had at the last item of the agenda. So, of the 26 present -- for 20, against nothing, abstentions 6. We have a general and entity majority. A report on the work of the National Minorities Council for 2019 was adopted. Point 6. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of the 26 present – for 19, against nothing, abstention 7. We have a general and entity majority, period adopted. Point 7. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019. Only in the second round of adoption reports, with the recommendations set out in the Report. Of the 26 present – for 19, against nothing, abstention 7. We have a general and entity majority, period adopted. Point 8. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. Of the total dock 26 – for 20, against nothing, abstention 6. There's a general and entity majority, so the report was adopted. 32 Point 9. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2018. Of the 26 present – for 20, against nothing, the 6. There is a general and entity majority, the report was adopted. Point 10. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2018. We're voting in the second round on the adoption of this report that was to be adopted in the first round, right, let's go in the second round. A total of 26 – for 21, against nothing, abstentions 5. There is a general and entity majority, the report was adopted. Point 11. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2018. Let's go to the vote. Of the total docks 26 – for 21, against nothing, abstentions 5. There is a general and entity majority, the report was adopted. Point 12. – Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2017. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. A total of 26 docks – for 20, against nothing, abstentioned 6. There is a general and entity majority, the report was adopted. Point 13. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2018. A total of 26 docks – for 20, against nothing, abstentioned 6. There is a general and entity majority, the report was adopted. Point 14. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Report on issued documents and denied requests for the issue of external trade in arms, military equipment and special purpose goods for 2017. Total dock 26 – for 19, against nothing, abstention 7. There's a general and entity majority, I find that the report has been adopted. Point 15. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on Information on the Annual Training Plan and training of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2019. We vote in the second round on receiving information. Total dock 26 – for 22, against nothing, abstention 4. There's a general and entity majority, so we've received information. 33 Point 16. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a decision on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police services in the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, applicant: BiH Presidency. We're voting in the second round of confirmation of the decision. Total dock 26 – for 22, against nothing, abstention 4. There is a general and entity majority, I find that the decision has been adopted, confirmed. Point 17. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative suggesting to the competent entity institutions, i.e. the institutions of the Brcko District (government and legislative bodies) to prepare and adopt amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of slander, in such a way that different standards of acceptability, tolerance and evidence are incorporated in respect of alleged slander against public figures in relation to private persons, and in accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights." We vote only in the second round on adopting a representative initiative. A total of 26 docks for 21, against nothing, abstentions 5. There is a general and entity majority, the initiative has been adopted. Point 18. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative which obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to analyse the impediment to the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the border police's equipment for better border control." We vote only in the second round on adopting a representative initiative. Total dock 26 – for 22, against nothing, abstention 4. There is a general and entity majority, the initiative has been adopted. Point 19. – Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the material marked “confidential”, number: P-Pov-07-03-10-5-38/18 of 27. 2. 2020. We vote only in the second round on the adoption of material marked ‘confidential’. A total of 26 docks for 21, against nothing, abstentions 5. It's got general, it's got entity majority, it's got the material that's been read. Point 20. – Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the material marked ‘confidential’, number: P-OV-07-03-10-12-97/18 of 27. 2. 2020. We vote only in the second round on the adoption of material marked ‘confidential’. Total dock 26 – for 21, against 1, abstention 4. There's a general, there's an entity majority, there's material adopted. 34 Point 21. – Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the material marked ‘confidential’, number: P-OV-07-03-10-12-71/19 of 27. 2. 2020. We vote only in the second round on the adoption of material marked ‘confidential’. Total dock 26 – for 22, against nothing, abstention 4. There's a general, there's an entity majority, there's material adopted. Point 22. – Proposal for a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, MP: Dragan Mektić, issue: 01-50-1-15-7/20 of 11. 3. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. Is it necessary to read the decision or is it all you have? You've got her. Okay. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. Of the 26 present – for 19, against nothing, abstention 7. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I realise that the decision on the election and entry into office and the termination of the post of CEC members whose proposing representative, Dragan Mektić, was adopted. Point 23. – Proposal for a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of member of the Central Election Commission of BiH, Proposer: Representative Zlatan Begić, issue: 01-50-1-15-7/20 since 11.03.2020. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. Of the 26 present – for 15, against nothing, abstentioned 11. There is a general but there is no entity majority and there is ___________(?) Again.
