ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1658	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests, whom I warmly welcome, were invited to the session. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The session is attended by 12 delegates – 4 from the Bosniak order, 4 from the order of Croatian and 4 from the Serb people. Delegates Munib Jusufović, Lazar Prodanović, Marina Pendeš justified their absence from today's session, I want them to recover and return to regular activities as soon as possible. As indicated in your call for a session in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that, along with the invitation to the 13th session of the House of Nations, you were also sent a letter regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegation Denis Bećirović was submitted to the Committee of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija; delegate Zlatko Miletić for the chairman council of BiH, Mr Zoran Tegeltija and delegate Dušanka Majkić for BiH Prime Minister Zoran Tegeltija. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and that member of the Council of Ministers to which the delegation issue concerns. I would like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public Television Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to the delegate, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1659	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to congratulate all citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Statehood Day in the highest legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one of the brightest dates in Bosnia and Herzegovina's millennium history, so on November 25, 1943, when anti-fascists from all Bosnian Herzegovic nations restored the medieval statehood of the Bosnian state. I think it is important to say this today in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to send a message of peace to all citizens and peoples of BiH. My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and concerns the anti-constitutional and illegal signing of a joint statement by the prime minister, bh. The entity Radovan Višković and Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabić on the construction of three hydropower plants in the upper flow of the Drina River. I want to say very clearly in this regard that this is an attempt to usurp Bosnia and Herzegovina's hydroenergy potential, and I want to say very clearly here in the House of Peoples that there can be no hydrocentrals on the Drina River without the consent of the competent state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in this case has not happened. The Drina River was in most of its current and the interstate border was, is and remains, denying that fact I think that entering into an adventure with inconceivable consequences and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. Here I also want to call on this issue all the state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also international community representatives in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement to react sharply to this, I will call it a provocation. I don't think that this issue can be the subject of some barren daily political statements by any political parties, the state authorities of our country must act here very clearly in accordance with their respective competences. The Strategic Action Programme for the Sustainable Development of Water Management of the Drina River has been developed for three countries, and this as a programme document and a roof programme in the context of European Union legislation, we must not ignore it. Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are also signatories of the Water Convention. Only states can sign these agreements, build hydrothermia on the Drina River. Without an interstate agreement, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Serbia is truly unserious. I can't believe that the Serbian prime minister dared to make such a move, it's not an expression of good neighbourly co-operation. That's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers and the Chairman today - what exactly did they do about it? I think it is time for the Bosnian Herzegovina public to know from the Council of Ministers of BiH that the actions taken about it. I expect, therefore, an answer, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I have, of course, another comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1660	Thank you very much. Since the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not present, he was not in the last session either, the only option remains that all issues addressed to the chair or ministers who do not attend these sittings should, as chairman in writing, inform them that they are in writing, unless they are in a position to attend or justify the absence, that in writing they deliver an answer not only to this issue, but to all the questions raised so far. It's the only thing I can do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give as a notice.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1661	... practice and it is no longer worth commenting on, but here we use our delegate right to point out some things publicly and openly. I want here today, first of all, to call on the three Council of Ministers of BiH to inform all international factors about how this joint statement on the legal side is completely void. I would like to call on the BiH Prosecutor's Office to open a concrete case concerning this case, this is about endangering and disrespecting both constitutional order and state law of BiH, it is more than clear. The State's Attorney's Office should make it very clear whether there are elements and false representations here on behalf of the state. Then I would like to invite the College of the People's House to organise a special thematic session on this issue. I would like to invite OHR and the High, Special Representative of the European Union to notify all relevant international addresses about this and finally call on the Foreign Minister in case there is obstruction in the Council of Ministers to take advantage of their position and also inform the relevant international addresses. This is not a good message for anyone, we all in this country know that Serbia owes Bosnia and Herzegovina over seven billion marks when it comes to the availability of hydroenergy potentials, we know what happens when it comes to hydrocentrals in Zvornik, Bajina's Bašte, etc. which belong to all international conventions and Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is my opinion that these issues should be resolved in dialogue and in a reasoned manner in the interstate relations between these two countries, and it is not possible to further complicate these anti-constitutional, anti-Daytonal and unilateral attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1662	Thank you very much. I would ask my next colleagues to stick to the timing that the Rules of Procedure provides for asking parliamentary questions, and I did not want to interrupt my colleague Bećirović, although the time has been broken, so I ask you to stick to as many Rules of Procedure as possible, of course we will not deny anyone to finish their thought, but here we are to keep an eye on. I give my word to my colleague Zlatko Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1663	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the ministers, the Council of Ministers, representatives of BiH institutions and all present representatives of our services and the media. I will see that my question is very brief, and I think it is the most important issue in BiH at the moment, from the point of view of the problem that this country is dealing with, to give a brief introduction, be patient, just listen to me for a moment to see what a serious problem we are in. When it comes to traffic or traffic accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am only talking about their consequences, in 2017 there were 298 deaths, in 2018 277, 2019 261 killed a person in eight months this year 200 people. My question is in the context of consequences or if you want to fight the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, is at the time of my request, actually addressing the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who unfortunately does not have this path, there were dead in BiH 2,141 and to repeat in Croatian, in order to be even more precise, two thousand and forty-one persons, this morning that number reached the sum of two thousand and three hundred and three thousand and three hundred forty-three dead since the beginning of this calendar year, which is a disaster. What I'm trying to say is that this is no longer a health issue, this is a social, economic, political, and indeed a security problem. So we've almost got two and a half thousand dead since the pandemic started and I think it's high time in this country that all the institutions, including us, wake up and start solving this problem. 4 My question in this sense would be very brief, I expected oral, and here, because there is no Mr. Chairman, I expect a written reply – What has the Council of Ministers done in this sense in the last three months not to deal with such terrible consequences? Because, according to the European Agency's report on this issue this morning, we are the third country in Europe by mortality, or by the number of pandemic victims, are we waiting for us to be the first to wake up. The second question, and in this regard, means that we discussed it through the budget when we discussed this calendar year, means I also pray that we have in mind, especially if we had a chance to see yesterday happening in Brcko District, that even though citizens are taking certain rigorous measures, that our citizens, our businessmen, are in big problems. So the second part of the question to the Council of Ministers refers to this – Are they for 2021 and are they planning measures to help the fallen economy, our economies and businesses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1664	Thank you very much, fellow Miletić. You have already said yourself that you are looking for an answer in writing, since the chairman is not present, we will send a letter to forward the answer in writing. Now I give the word to Delegate Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1665	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my delegate question has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The question that was set we didn't even know that it deserved this kind of attention, because it was never so explicitly written, so clearly and counting, because when you say there's something that you don't say about it and how much trouble you have right now. So, in the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution with a call to the Defence Report, which we have not yet discussed, it has arrived in the procedure but we have not discussed it, there are alarming data, that according to the report with the situation on 31.12.2019. Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Ombudsman's office as the protector of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has 984 cases in which institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina appear, the value of all these cases is more than 253 million marks or more than one quarter of BiH's budget. It's 32 institutions, so 984 litigation cases, and a quarter of the budget as I said, institutions with the largest number of disputes, so those that should do something for so many years of their work are: 1. Department of Defense with 195 cases or almost 25 million marks, 2. Administration for indirect taxation of 67 items or almost 27 million marks, 3. The Council of Ministers, that's what it says, what's contained in it we'll see, 15 items more than 20 million marks, 4. Ministry of Communications and Transport 6 items or more than 7.5 million marks and 5. Agency for Identification Documents and Data Exchange 3 cases close to 5 million marks. That's all five institutions are listed, the other 27 that I'm not instructed to, whose amounts are smaller or about a million marks, that condition is alarming. So, the budget risk is high, so I decided to ask this question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it comes down to three things: 5 What does the Council of Ministers intend to take towards institutions whose business generates litigation? What does the Council of Ministers do to comply with the rules governing receipts from the working relationship of employees in the legislative, judicial and executive government of BiH? And finally lastly, does the Council of Ministers, in this case the Ministry of Justice, prepare a legal framework for the implementation of the extrajudicial settlement procedure in order to achieve possible savings in the spending of budget funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1666	Thank you very much. Delegate Mladen Bosić received an answer in written form to the issue asked by the Central Election Commission of BiH, also delegate Zlatko Miletić received an answer in written form to a question asked by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. Are delegates satisfied with the answers received? They did. Thank you very much. We are crossing, so we are moving forward for the 13th session proposed the next amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Delegate Denis Bećirović's request to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue: 02-02-1-2146/20 of 03.11.2020; 3. Delegate Denis Bećirović's request to consider the draft law supplementing the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue 02-02-1-2147/20 of 03.11.2020; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-344/20 since 02.07.20120; 5. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on salaries and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-596/20 since 31.03.2020; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02- 02-1-840/19 of 27.07.20120, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the Commission on Finance and Budget of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusion of the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which reads: "It is necessary for the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit to the parliamentary procedure by the end of this calendar year the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data of Bosnia and Herzegovina"- link: Act No: 03/6-50-14-12-6-20 of 14.09.20120, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020; 8. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Implementation Report of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018 - Link: Act No: 01,02,03-37- 1656/20 of 17.08.2020, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020; 6 9. The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on Information on the illegal and non-professional action of the foreign minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, delivered by delegate Dušanka Majkić – link: act No: 02-50-6- 1964/20 of 08.10.2020, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020; 10. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2019 - link: act No: 01,02-16-1,678/20 of 24.08.2020, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the closing of the Assembly of Asim Sarajlić, which reads: "The entity agencies of the state service and the Government of the Brcko District of BiH are invited to establish and act as soon as possible the operational register of employees in the institutions of the entity and Brcko District of BiH with data on the national, full, qualification structure and national structure of management officers"- link: Act No 01,02-50-18-15555/20 and 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 08.10.1920, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020; 12. Consideration of BHRT’s material management board: (a) Report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1503/20 of 23.07.20120; (b) Programme plans and the financial plan of BHRT for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1031/20 of 29.05.2020; 13. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16- 1-1595/20 since 31.07.20120; 14. Report on the financial audit of the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02-16-9-1910/20 since 29/09/2020; 15. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative calling on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Peoples to, within the shortest time possible from the day of adoption of this initiative, take the decision to hire the Armed Forces of BiH at the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of helping the BiH Border Police to halt the illegal crossing of the state border and ensure security for all peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-50-6-1762/20 of 03.09.2020; 16. Selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH - Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking proposal for the selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, issue: 01,02-50-16-1091-7,1/20 since 06.10.1920; 17. The appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals - Report on the designation of successful candidates for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeal, issue: 01,02-50-14-1183-4/20 of 13.10.1920; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Treaty on Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, subsequently amended by Amendment No. 1 (Agreement of Finance) – Distribution of Electricity in BiH – C (Fi 82.304- SERAPISA2010-0562), issue: 01.02-21-1-1872/20 since 23.09.2020. This is a harmonised amended agenda of the College of the People's House that you've won. 7 Is anyone answering for a word? A colleague, Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1668	And fellow Miletić first, I apologize, I'm sorry. Here's a colleague of Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1669	I don't care if my colleague Bećirović is. I do not have any objections to the agenda points that are entered here, but I do have an observation, Mr. Chairman, given that on 23.10, I have referred to you one initiative relating to improving the status of employees, meaning our civil servants, employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that initiative I have actually asked for three things, in addition to cheating on this famous coefficient on 535 marks, and to warn the general strike of employees in institutions, means both employees and civil servants, I have asked this initiative to develop a social dialogue with trade unions urgently and not to make two things in these negotiations, means that the collective agreement with them is signed, to solve this problem and thus to warn the general strikes. I think it's a question, really, that it has a special degree of urgency. I don't normally like to assume what you were doing and thinking, but I suppose when the College declared that it had been delivered to a competent committee, so please answer me to answer the question – which commission is competent to assess whether or not a strike should be, which commission is in charge of whether a collective agreement with our unions should be signed? And I'm leaving, so, for sure, the Ministry of Finance in terms of this financial problem that we have if we want to solve, and it's about 70 million at the annual level, so maybe before the commission is sitting down and making a decision on this issue, I'm suggesting when they're all, but they're able to ask the IMF for a new billion and a half, so they don't miss asking for another 70 million and we're really helping civil servants and tenants in the next period, to improve their personal or personal status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1670	I thank my colleague Miletić. We're going to say that we received this proposal from you and that the College set up this morning's session a committee responsible, as soon as the committee is done, it's a procedural story, there's going to be a agenda point we're going to talk about. I give my word to my colleague, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1671	Until the election in Mostar, however, there are 27 days left, but I must say that I believe that most of the political parties in Mostar are in one unequal position, because they cannot essentially run an election campaign in all parts of the city, more specifically in those streets that bear the names of Ustasha criminals, such as Jure Francetić, Ante Vokić, Mile Budak, Mladen Lorković, etc. How to announce some political gathering or in accordance with existing measures and put, say, on the poster that you will have 8 info stand on Jura Francetic Street? It's a little bit of a political party that's going to allow itself. So, it is unthinkable to campaign in these parts of Mostar City, these are facts, so today I propose to supplement the agenda – Considering a proposal for a conclusion that calls on competent authorities in Mostar to remove the names of the streets in Mostar that bear the names and last names of proven Ustasha criminals from World War II. I think we have a chance here in the House of Nations today to show and send a message of peace ahead of the upcoming Local Elections in Mostar, we have the opportunity today to show that we are affirming European values, to inherit European values both in Mostar and in all Bosnia and Herzegovina, and one of the fundamental values of modern Europe and the European Union is just antifascism. Street names per Nazi have nothing to do with the European Union, which is the complete opposite of what the strategic goals of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are. Today, therefore, it is an opportunity to send this message, to make it very clear that we do not agree with the policy that wiped the streets, let's say, Matija Gubec or famous writer and statesman Vladimir Nazor, and gave the streets of Jure Francetić and other criminals. Here is a chance in the House of Peoples, so I propose that we put this item on the agenda, I have prepared a precise proposal to conclude and to send, I repeat, a message of peace, tolerance and that we are truly and sincerely ready to follow European values. I deliver in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1672	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the agenda, by asking in writing, to make a statement on the proposal for a new agenda point. Therefore, the draft agenda item – Consideration of a proposal for a conclusion calling on the competent authorities of Mostar to remove the name of the streets in Mostar as soon as possible, bearing the names and last names of the proven Ustasha criminals from World War II. Prepare to vote. So present 12 - for 5, against 6, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstained no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 3. abstention 1. So there's no general majority going on...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1673	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1674	There is no general majority, so this revision of the agenda is not accepted. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. 9 No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on the record from the 12th session. So present 12 - for 11, against no one, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 8, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 3 against no one, abstention 1. I find that we have a general and entity majority and that the Recordman has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Delegate Denis Bećirović's request to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue: 02-02-1-2146/20 of 03.11.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1677	Therefore, both points 2 and 3 of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first of all, an attempt to remove one of the many privileges here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH today in the House of Peoples. It's so-called. Jubilee award. Based on this jubilee award, hundreds of thousands of KM have been spent so far. I think it should be treated in an urgent way in the time of the pandemic they suffer, whether, all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at a time of decline in economic activity, reduced exports, numerous social economic problems. That today we need to find strength and show one positive signal to all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, this isn't some system solution right now. Unfortunately, many solutions in this year have fallen which have been proposed and much wider procedures. Since we couldn't adopt any of this here in the House of Peoples, I think it's at least an opportunity to end these privileges one by one. Therefore, here is the opportunity to send a positive message today from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on this. Let's show, among other things, that we're ready and in a different way to work. I think that, and the general public is aware of this, it is not a good message that in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, someone is committed to buying expensive cars, expensive furniture, while at the same time having privileges. That's what people in Bosnia and Herzegovina watch. They expect a much more responsible approach from us than we are currently seeing. That's it. Here, that... I don't explain the detailed content of this Law, you got it in writing, I hope and read it, he's very clear and I invite everyone to vote for him.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1678	My colleague Miletić. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1679	If you'll excuse me very briefly. As far as I've been able to read it, it means I support the initiative as such if it refers only to the appointed and elected ones. So, if it doesn't apply to our deputies and employees who have certainly, is it, in such a existential trouble that they, and that kind of money they need. So either way, if it applies to these two categories, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1680	Thank you. Who's next to the word? So, we're discussing procedure. A colleague, Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1681	Since we are discussing the procedure, we often mix it up very often, so when it comes, we are already exhausting the discussion in the procedure. So it wouldn't remain unclear, it's not about the procedure right now, it's about the concrete amendments to the two laws that treat it. Comrade Miletić, just for the sake of the public, let me remind you once again, you're absolutely right, that's exactly what you're talking about and it doesn't apply to these others. That's what the law literally says.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1682	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the procedure, so we are voting on whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Give us a chance to vote. So there's 11 to 11, against no one, abstentioned no one. We have a general, so we have a Federation of BiH -- for 8, against no one, abstentioned no one, Republika Srpska -- in 3 against no one, abstentioned no one. So we have a general and entity majority. Therefore, I find a request to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House were adopted, therefore, by an emergency procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the content of the law. Who's answering for a word or are all the debates exhausted about the procedure? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Give us a chance to vote. 11 So there is 11 present – for 5, against 6; and none abstentioned. The Federation of BiH -- for 5, against 3, abstention of no one, Republika Srpska -- for no one, against 3. abstentioned no one. So we don't have the general majority. I agree with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been adopted. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Delegate Denis Bećirović's request to consider the draft law supplementing the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue 02-02-1-2147/20, of 03.11.2020 You've received this request. I give my word to the Proposer, if there's any need. Here you go, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1684	... In order for this privilege to be lifted, it is necessary to regulate it with amendments and additions through these two laws. [[no microphone turned on]] The Jubilee Prize is really something that looks like science fiction for people in this country. I don't know why it's going to be individual, here, ministers, MPs, etc., here at the state level. Do Jubilee Prizes have miners in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have doctors who fight the pandemic, have workers in the education system, many people in the economy, farmers, etc.? There's no one here. I urge you once again to try to at least try to remove what we can from these privileges and show at least a minimum of solidarity with the people of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1685	Thank you very much. Is anyone still on for the discussion? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting, therefore, on the procedure of whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Prepare to vote. So there's 11 to 11, against no one, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH -- for 8, against no one, abstentioned no one, Republika Srpska -- for 3 against no one, abstentioned no one. We have a general, we have an entity majority. So we're going through a debate on the bill's proposal for an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 12 We vote on the proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Give us a chance to vote. So there's 11 present - for 5, versus 5, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstention of none, Republika Srpska – for no one, against 2. abstention 1. So I realize that the draft law supplementing the Labour Law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-11344/20 since 02.07.20120 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the text of the bill and proposes its adoption to the House. At the 13th session, held on 14.10.1920, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Court Taxes in the process before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its second reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples, Bariša Čolak, if necessary. There isn't. Thank you. I now give my word to the Proposer if he is present and has needs. No, there isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. So there's 12 present - for 10, against no one, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – for 8, against no one, abstentioned none, Republika Srpska – against no one, abstention 2. So, I find the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Court Taxes in the case before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on salaries and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-596/20 since 31.03.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1690	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1691	There's no entity, he's going for a match. We'll do it the second time in the alignment procedure. We're going to the next item on the agenda, Ad. Seven. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusion of the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which reads: "It is necessary for the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit to the parliamentary procedure by the end of this calendar year the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data of Bosnia and Herzegovina"- link: Act No: 03/6-50-14-12-6-20 of 14.09.20120, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020 At the 12th session of the House of Peoples, held on 08.10.1920, we discussed the conclusion of the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which reads: "It is necessary for the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data to Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of this calendar year in the parliamentary procedure." During the vote, that conclusion was not given to the necessary entity majority, and a consensus was followed in the College of the People's House. 15 You have received a report from the College of the House of the Peoples. Members of the House of Nations College as a commission failed to reach agreement on the conclusion of the Joint Commission's opinion on the human rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, we are voting on the conclusion of the opinion of the Joint Commission for the Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I note that this agenda item is not under discussion. We're voting on the Opinion's conclusion. So there's 12 present - for 7 against no one, abstention 5. Federation of BiH – for 7 against no one, abstention 1, Republika Srpska – for no one, against no one, abstained 4. So I find that the conclusion from the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Implementation Report of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018 – Link: Act No: 01,02,03-37-166/20 of 17.08.2020, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1696	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1697	She wasn't admitted to knowledge. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the closing of the Assembly of Asim Sarajlić, which reads: "The entity agencies of the state service and the Government of the Brcko District of BiH are invited to establish and act as soon as possible the operational register of employees in the institutions of the entity and Brcko District of BiH with data on the national, full, qualification structure and national structure of the management officers" – link: Act No: 01,02-50-18-155/20 and 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 08.10.1920, issue: 02-50-6-16-12/20 of 12.11.2020 We haven't had an entity majority in the House of People's session since 8.10.1920. The college, as the committee responsible, did not achieve consent. We're going to the second round of voting. 17 Please repeat your vote. So there's 12 present - for 5, versus 3, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against no one, abstentioned 3, Republika Srpska – for no one, against 3. abstention 1. I konstatuj that delegate Asim Sarajlić's request has been passed. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Consideration of BHRT’s material management board: (a) Report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1503/20 of 23.07.20120; (b) Programme plans and financial plan of BHRT for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1031/20 of 29.05.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1700	Zlatko Miletić called.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1701	I apologize to my colleague Miletić,... Here's a colleague of Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1702	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will indeed try to be brief, given that most of you, at least those who are the second or third term here, have experience with this problem or the functioning of our Public Service. We had a debate yesterday, and I thank you for attending here and Mr. Director, I see and today 18 is here, and I really can't understand that for years two of the Services problems we haven't been able to solve, that the people from year to year are losing, that these losses are piling up, that the employees or employees who work in this Service are very underpaid, that there's too many, as the director told us yesterday, 863 has employees. We didn't get a chance to hear yesterday because we don't have a chairman's committee, which I find very strange that a man doesn't show up two or three times, probably unable to defend what was done there. I'm not a populist by my character, otherwise it'd be good to know which one of us pays for a tv subscription. But, here we are, not to deal with it and not to do the digression of an ugly species, obviously there's some serious political problem here, there's a problem in funding the Service itself, and God and the problem and what we're looking at on this Service and if anyone's even looking at it. I think, respecting the fact that this Service is ours, and it should serve all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina as we are sitting here, because all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens are getting paid, both us and them. I think the time has come for us to see what the problem is and how to help people really, especially television to function in the right way, so that this program can be watched, so we don't be embarrassed when we go to some private television houses, and it seems to me that Mr. Bosić mentioned one example yesterday, even talking to a private television house that has 160 employees, whose IT program is top, top. Now, in the sense of my patriotism, because I'm paying a regular subscription, and not just yours and another private television house, it's a shame we haven't found a solution so far to fund that television. Shame, yesterday we heard that the first phase of digitization was over, and the second one never started and we've been out since '16. a year if you need to do it or not. It is a shame when it comes to whether, their conditionally said, independence, internal policy, that politicians, in every way, mean public and political holders, want to draw a level to serve some political parties or some policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in itself is unreasonable. I have to say really, and I hope Mr. Director doesn't get mad at me, it's nothing personal, I have a couple of friends that I drink coffee with on Saturdays and Sundays, who are employed downstairs, and sometimes in heaven we joke when you're going to play "Better Life" again for the fifth time. So, I can't figure out on that television, I'm talking about her programming structure now, I'm talking about my taste, so don't mind me, there might be a Friday show that can be watched, I can't imagine, I can't count here any private television, that their program is 10 times better. Here, if you want me to compare them, the N1 information program or Al Jazeera's documentary program or sports program, not to quote all these TVs. I cannot understand that in the Republic of Croatia we have four state televisions, that we are unable to make one. Well, let's sit down and talk about what the problem is. Is the problem that every nation has its own space, its place. If you can't make a channel, can we every day take two or three hours in the programming scheme, that I don't know, here, Cardinal Vinko Puljić, to get a respectable reis or someone who needs to come, that we have room for Rom, means national minorities. Well, please really let us sit down and make this Service top of it, to be 200, 300, 500 people employed, to be maximumly well paid, to be your program so attractive that then you won't worry about funding, because then you'll have marketing, because I was a guest on one television in the fifth month of this year, there was no commercial. Now that people know they're doing it, when you look at their program now, there's now 100 commercials, you can't get a man out of work, because in the meantime he's become so attractive. So, me as a Bosanac and a Hercegovac and as a Hrvat what I ask you to do, let us really help you see if there is any way. And yesterday on the Commission I proposed one of 19 of these funding methods, here we are now not calling each other for that subscription who's paying, how it's paid and not paying it. Apparently, people frustration with this dissatisfaction show it that way. And if it's a good solution and private television houses, I don't want to be rude and mention them by name, I'm paying a subscription to a cable television that's 70 marks. On that account, you have 23 KM maintenance. So let's see with the RAC, with someone, here, that citizens don't pay any subscription, when these privates make money on us and fund you. Why don't you put those two, three, five, seven, 10 marks on them to function in the way that's expected of you. But I really ask you, so in terms of content and all of this stuff that I'm saying, and please, let's sit down and see how and in what way this Management Board, if that's what it's called, let's see how to help both BHRT and RTRS, and how to help Federation TV, to see what people, what political parties, what each of us here expects of you so that you can do these things in the next period. And indeed, here's Mr. Bosić had a good two comments yesterday. I'm speaking again in my best friendly, patriotic intent, so I can't figure out that you have so many people, that other television houses with two, three times fewer people make that program that's much more quality. What I can't figure out is, I have to tell you that dozens of our pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina have spoken to me, let's say, an example I'm telling you, which I can't watch our football team broadcast on your television. I know what you're gonna say. You're going to say the Football Federation has made an agreement, not to mention that television now. It should be a shame and a Football Alliance that on our national television you can't watch the national team. That's my opinion. Doesn't mean I'm right. But please let us sit down and see what are the ways, how can we help you to function, because even those who intend to bring you down, in the sense that they... destroy you and... they won't succeed. But what I want from you, really, is that you try to do the best you can in terms of running, that this program is quality and tell us what we can do to help you here, in every sense, to help you, to really be proud of TV, because I think there are very good people out there, valuable people who can make a change of that kind, of course, with our help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1703	I thank my colleague Miletić. No one's answering, the debate is closed. We're going to vote on the report on BHRT's financial operations for 2019. Attending 12 – for 5, against 6, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstained no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 3. abstention 1. So we don't have a general majority. I find that the report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019 has not been adopted. We are now voting on the Programme Plan and the financial plan of the BHRT for 2020. We take him into knowledge, right? At present 12 – for 5, against 6, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstained no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 3. abstention 1. We don't have a general majority. I find that the Programme Plan and the financial plan of the BHRT for 2020 have not been adopted. 20 We move to the 13th point, Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1595/20 since 31/07.2020 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission has adopted the Report. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 12th session, held on 15 September 2020. I give the word Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, if necessary. No, I don't. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and has needs. No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019. So present 12 - for 9, versus 1, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – for 6, against no one, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for 3rd none against, 1 abstention. I agree that we have both a general and an entity majority and a report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019 has been adopted. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Report on the financial audit of the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02-16-9-1910/20 since 29/09/20
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1707	The migrant crisis is a burning issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, undoubtedly one of the most important topics in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if by any chance I were able to decide on behalf of the College and of the other home, and now, in the case of the People's House, I would put this as the first item of the agenda. I think it's high time to stop ignoring this growing problem, which threatens total escalation. I think it's high time to start acting responsibly, seriously, statesmanically. Unfortunately, we have no concrete measures to put the migrant crisis under control. For more than one year, since the fall of last year, not to say almost every session of the House of Peoples, I propose some of the concrete solutions how to at least ease this issue and to systematically resolve and all of this is rejected, on the other hand, as all the proposed measures are being rejected, nothing is being proposed and from month to month is getting worse. Now, unfortunately, I must say, people's heads have begun to fall. This is the final situation and the final moment for us to act concretely, I do not think that any government body has the right to sleep when it comes to the migrant crisis and one and the other home of the 22 Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and other competent authorities and institutions. I've already said that, and now with even more arguments, I underline it, so that we can put the migrant crisis under control, among other things, are the key two measures. First, to train the State Border Service to stop illegal entry of people who have no identification, so today we have thousands of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who, you know neither names nor last names, nor who they are, nor what they are, nor why they are here. Another measure is to invite the Presidency to make a decision to assist the BiH Armed Forces in controlling Bosnia and Herzegovina's state border, which is a particular subject of what is on the agenda today. We have the opportunity as the House of Peoples to send that message and invite the BiH presidency to make such a decision as they make between themselves and another state. Look out, people, 1600 miles is a state border, missing, as I recall, over 1200 or 1,300 state border cops who would've put that under control. We will have even bigger problems in the coming period, whether it is really someone's goal or some policies to escalate the migrant crisis here, and I must say that, first of all, in the Un-San canton, in Sarajevo, in Tuzlan, some even set out to bring migrants into those parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that we should go back to the essence when it comes to the migrant crisis, and it's started to discuss in the media some of the most ephemeral things, if the intention is serious, responsible, then it's clear what measures we can put this under control. This problem will not stop after this session of the House of Peoples, as things stand, it is likely that SNSD and HDZ will again vote against. It is not a problem that you are voting against, but the problem is that for more than a year you have refused everything, and at no time have you come to any home of these two in the Parliamentary Assembly with any concrete proposal. So I ask publicly – what are your goals, what is your goal, to destabilise Bosnia and Herzegovina, to abuse and the migrant crisis to create unstable opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I call on all those who keep voting against all the proposals that can put the migrant crisis in some very controlled situation, to propose better solutions, but to refuse everything, to tear everything down without offering anything that you're sending. Once again, therefore, I appeal here and in the House of Peoples, we have the opportunity to take a small step, we have the opportunity to put this issue under control, as other countries do, and I urge you in this case to invite the BiH Presidency to make that decision and that the BiH Armed Forces help our State Border Service, the Presidency can do so. No matter how much you refuse to do this again at the next session of the House of Nations, this topic awaits. Maybe there'll be more lost human lives then, don't let that happen, let's do something serious and responsible. This is not a topic for any inter-party bickering, this exceeds that level.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1708	Thank you. The word was asked for by fellow Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1709	Here, so maybe there's no misunderstanding, I'm a little bit more of a follow-up to this problem since it's closer to me and to my personal discourse. What is important here to point out, I think Mr Bećirović's idea is good and that we really need, here to say, to ask the chairman's presidency, Mr Dodik and both other members of the presidency to seriously consider this issue and to engage the Armed Forces, above all, to help our BiH Border Police. Not in this sense that perhaps, I don't know what Mr. Denis meant, but not in the sense that our members of the Armed Forces with the rifle stand there, but as I once commented on 23 specifically, so BiH border police need help preventing illegal passageways where it can cross the eastern border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there are more than 240. So, from the members of the presidency, we, conditionally speaking, or from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, expect to engage or use the Armed Forces in order to help you overcome them. That's one thing. Another thing, which is very important. In the wake of these migrants the daily flow of them at the border, so on the eastern end of the border was daily in the previous months about 200 to 220, he recently fell from 80 to 100 a day. What is important here to point out is that the number has dropped primarily through the involvement of the Border Police, the OSA, the Coordination Circulations, the pawning of Republika Srpska's police officers and other institutions that are indeed helping to resolve or minimise this problem as much as possible. However, it is obvious that what they are investing is, whether additional efforts are not enough to break the flow of migrants when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and I am really standing at the point of view, meaning, including the Presidency as an authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that every one of its responsibilities should take certain measures and actions, and I think that the involvement of the Armed Forces in this regard is necessary, that I have explained, at least to a large extent, to reduce the flow of these migrants, that I am not talking now about other problems that are tied up, and you saw these gatherings of citizens yesterday, at least when it comes to Canton Sarajevo that we have a situation in Blaze to have more at the reception centre than there are owners of that part of the city. So the situation, I think it's still going to be complicated, this, this guy who died the other day, he's not the first, you'll see he won't be the last, is there going to be a lot more incidents if we don't all start dealing with this issue together, and I'm asking you to support my colleague Denis's initiative in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1710	Thank you very much. The word is for a colleague, Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1711	Thank you, Chairman. Well, this is one of the most important topics, I think the issue of migrants is one of the most important topics in which politics and the public should be addressed in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, and it is evident that this is one of the many important topics that this government has put under the carpet. According to this agenda of today's session, it is clear that the government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers, is not functioning. We haven't seen it in this House of Chairmans Council of Ministers, I don't know how many months. It is an honor to Mr Bevanda, who is always there, but I believe it is not only a message to the House, but that it is a message that the government or relationship between the Council of Ministers and Parliament does not exist. We have on the agenda of today's session, with so many problems that we should talk about and talk about, we have a proposal from the Council of Ministers on Court Taxes as the only initiative of the Council of Ministers here. And it's obvious, I mean, you don't have to be skillful in politics to realize that things don't work out here, and that it's skillfully hidden from not working. You don't have any real initiative on any fundamental change in such a bad situation in general, not just about refugee issues. So, please understand, there are people here who may be the most responsible for the political situation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to take responsibility, even if you can't agree on some issues, that some issues are above each other's differences or political concepts and that you should seriously enter into their resolution. So, please, here are some delegates here who have objections on the committees won't, they won't discuss the agenda points unless 24 has come to the competent minister or the person in charge of it, I ask you as a College to ensure here that the relationship of the Council of Ministers to the House of Peoples is as it should be. And this initiative that, apparently, won't come across support here, is as good as it showed up here to draw attention to the question of refugees that, as far as I understand it, no one's talking about anymore. Here in politics it's not a topic, it's a topic when there's an incident, when someone pays their bills with their heads or when these unfortunates who are in such a state that I assume is a state of high despair and I don't expect Bosnia and Herzegovina to find a smart solution, because they haven't found them all or the countries of Europe, but it's a question that we should talk about here and it would be fine if this question was initiated by the Council of Ministers on its own initiative in connection with the refugee crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1712	Thank you, fellow Bosić. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement about... So present 12 - for 5, versus 6, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstained no one. [[no microphone turned on]] Republika Srpska – for no one, against 3. abstention 1.. I konstatuj, therefore, that Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative has not been adopted. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH - Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, issue: 01,02-50-16-1091-7,1/20 since 06.10.1920 The interim joint commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data at the session held on 01.10.1920 established and provided the Representative's House and the People's House of the Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. In line with the proposal for a ranking of successful candidates for appointment, which was submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of the director of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency should be made known about the appointment of the director of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency. At the 13th session, held on 14.10.1920, Dragoljub Reljić named him director of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency. I give my word to the chairman of the Interim Joint Commission. In this case it's me, no need for you to get the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? 25 No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the appointment of the first candidate from rang-lista Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the appointment of the director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, which is Dragoljub Reljić. Please vote. There are 12 delegates present – for 10, against 1, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- seven against one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 3 against no one, abstention 1. I konstatuj that Mr Dragoljub Reljić has been appointed director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. My congratulations on the appointment. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. The appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals - Report on the designation of successful candidates for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeal, issue: 01,02-50-14-1183-4/20 of 13.10.1920
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1715	... You have a 18th point. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-11-24-0.u1716	And 18, I don't have it here. 27 So, if you'll excuse me, we're going to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 18. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Treaty on the Financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, subsequently amended by Amendment No. 1 – Distribution of Electricity in BiH – C (FI 82.304- SERAPISA2010-0562), issue: 01.02-21-1-1872/20 of 23.09.2020 You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications of the House of Peoples. I give my word to Amir Fazlić, if need be. No, I don't. Thank you very much. You've reached the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on giving consent to ratification. So present 12 - for 11, against no one, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 8, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 3 against no one, abstention 1. We konstatovati that we have agreed to ratify Amendment No. 2 to the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, subsequently amended by Amendment No. 1 (Agreement on Finance) – Distribution of Electricity in BiH since 23.09.2020. This concludes today's session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. In time, you will receive information and agenda for the next session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 12:42 p.m.
