ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5820	I suggest we work. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the sixth emergency session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Follow the anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, we didn't invite guests to this session, as usual. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] That's why I welcome only the people's MPs present. The absence today was justified by Mrs Nada Mladina and Mr Nenad Nešić. The session is attended by 40 MPs, so we can conclude that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The 6th emergency session of the House was convened in accordance with a member... The Rules of Procedure of one part of the agenda on which the College of the House of Representatives decided at the 18th session held on 15.04. I note that the Public Institute for Public Health of Canton Sarajevo, in response to a request from the Federation House of Representatives, indicated that a session could be held alongside the others to amend the Rules of Procedure in order to enable further work and meetings by electronic means. It is also stated that what must be satisfied at the current epidemiological moment is a suitable space with good air ventilation and distance for MPs more than two metres in sitting places, and that the session should be held in no longer than 60 minutes, and that it is mandatory to wear masks and gloves. The civil protection headquarters of Canton of Sarajevo, as responsible in this matter, has given the order to enable the legislative authorities to work, i.e. the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the House of the Federation, with the obligation to adhere to the social distance measures and the prescribed epidemiological and protective measures and recommendations of the Crisis Headquarters. So, in accordance with the above and with respect for all measures and recommendations, we called for today's session. I find that the 6th Emergency Session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The request of BiH Parliamentary Assembly Speaker Nebojša Radmanović, the first deputy chairman, Mrs Borjana Krišto, and the second deputy chairman, Mr Denis Zvizdić, to discuss the proposal for the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure No: 01-02-4-805/20 of 2104.2020 In accordance with this College of the House of Representatives, it established a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and in line with the emerging epidemiological situation, with the aim of enabling the smooth adoption of the necessary laws and decisions of this House. You have seen that, in line with the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, we have had one technical correction concerning the name itself, that is to say, the supplement rather than the additions to Rules 2 as originally stated the name of the document. You have also received this corrected text for which the legislative and legal sector has established that it meets the requirements of compliance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. I'm opening an emergency hearing. First came Mr. Saša Magazinović, then Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5821	Dear chairman, deputies, colleagues, colleagues. I warmly welcome you all. What has been proposed today as a agenda has been urgent, but it is no longer an emergency. If the session had been held a month ago, it would have been something commendable, but today it looks like the Resistance met in '45. And to make arrangements to resist the occupyer and the domestic traitors. So, the pandemic is slowly quieting down, life is normalizing, and we have a session to adopt acts on how to work under emergency circumstances. This Parliament is one of the smallest parliaments in Europe and, as you can see, it has conditions to sit quite normally, not in the time of the pandemic and not just on those topics, but to do what is the work of Parliament. It was urgent, and we expected it from you, to talk about changing the VAT law when it could have helped businesses, it can still but it's not talked about, about amending the Excise Act, it was urgent to set up a mechanism of control over the availability, supply and what's going on these days, the donations. You see, and I'll end up, I appreciate the time and what you said, the company that was blocked in February, buying respirators for 10 million in March, and it also deals with raspberries. A second we don't know about yet, but, well, they say, he's doing the furniture reparation, he's buying the crown tests. Is it necessary for the state parliament to be someone to keep quiet and watch the rerun of the post-war reconstruction where some have made a fortune on supplies and donations, or should we say something about, in contrast, making a body? And that's why the SDP asked on the main board the other day for all institutions to submit information on public procurement and donations, who got what it cost. Minister Radončić did not withdraw from the Coordination Body for nothing and said he did not want to participate in the part, he knows who he is dealing with. I think it's urgent, too, to talk about it, I think it's urgent to talk about this delaying election, to see who's in favour of postponing the election from these internationals, who controls which member of the CEC, which is what he bought it for, and when, who of the CEC members received the money and why, beyond his pay. Who are the employees of international institutions who interfere with the postponement of elections? In Munich, local elections are held at the end of the pandemic, the elected mayor, South Korea is making elections, you know what was there, we're the only country that has been delaying six months in advance, and I'm most surprised by a part of the opposition that has gone along with it, I guess aware of its weaknesses, but here, and we can talk about it. So this isn't an emergency anymore, and there's a lot of urgent issues. It would be good if we could get an answer about this IMF engagement. Journalists got the answer that they should contact the IMF to tell them what the interest is, what the grace period is and what and how it is, because the Ministry of Finance doesn't have that information at the time, so imagine where we live. So there's a lot of urgent issues, in this month I've been in the field, I've seen everything and everything, people are hungry, they don't have drugs, they're living in impunity, and there's a raspberries buying respirators from their money. I think the people who chose us deserve to talk about them and make it urgent. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5822	Thank you, Mr. Magazinović. I would like to remind you that we are talking about an emergency procedure and I am asking that the others who have reported this talk, I have already written down four participants in the debate. Because our session time is limited to 60 minutes, in accordance with Article 27, I limit the debate to five minutes. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut, then jasmin Emrić, then Dragan Mektić, then Peđa Kojović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I haven't seen Aida.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5824	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. First of all, you violated article 71. The Rules of Procedure, which very clearly states that at the beginning of the House meeting, an MP, like any authorised promoter, has the right to request the abandonment of optional and inclusion of other items of the agenda. You just realized that we established the agenda, and we didn't, the House determines the agenda, not you. Therefore, this is a harsh, harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and an eclative exploitation of the situation caused by this pandemic, but you are doing so in a country that is officially parliamentary democracy, not executive. I proposed these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on 30.03, 30.03, a month ago. You copied them, literally, like the College and took them as your own, with me not being wrong, I wrote a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure, and you even fucked it up, so the Legislative and Legal Sector corrected you. But in addition to what was really urgent in 30.03., not to repeat Magazinović's discussion, and not anymore, we have also proposed three laws that have a huge degree of urgency, a law on emergency austerity measures, that your team be abolished, that your official vehicles be abolished, that your escorts be abolished, your commission fees and everything else you abuse during this pandemic. The law on mandatory contributions from elected and appointed officials, to take 20% of the salary and put into a special fund each and every one of these and the Council of Ministers and numerous directors of state institutions, and to put it into a special fund, that it is then used exclusively to fight this pandemic, it is urgent. The Excise Act, amendments and additions to the Excise Act, to exempt excises from alcohol and products used as disinfectants, 30.03., today is 28.04., and this is all we have and you realize it's just a supplement to the agenda. This is very clear, an attempt to euthanasia, the euthanasia of the parliamentary system, parliamentary democracy, and even not, worst of all, this is not even an attempt to move to executive democracy, because in this country there is nothing to ask, neither Tegeltija, Zoran at least, or Komšić, nor Džaferović. All decisions and rerouting all cash flows, and we saw yesterday in a way, are made by three Bakir, Mile and Dragan. This is an attempt to turn Bosnia and Herzegovina into a party democracy where all the absolute decisions in this country are made by the three. Article 71 was harshly violated and you went outside the scope of your jurisdiction and I ask that the House declare itself on the proposed amendments and additions to the agenda, Mr Emrić has some of us as Club Our Party- The Independent Side we have some, and let me repeat, it is about these urgent laws. If you don't put this on the agenda, you get your team cut off, that you're being put off by driving in the official vehicles, that you're gonna have that escort completely unnecessarily removed, strutting around here with bodyguards 4 on this building, you didn't let the press out, and the bodyguards are following you at the rate, and you're not going to put it on the agenda, it's not urgent, and it's urgent that today, a month after I suggested it, we discuss the amendments to the Rules of Procedure in this way. I therefore ask that the House declare itself on the proposed amendments and amendments to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5825	I remind you once again, we're discussing an emergency procedure, we're not talking about all the problems that an MP feels. So I warn you that you are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to conduct a debate in accordance with the agenda. Don't make me take someone's word away from this session that we as a House of Representatives need to set an example in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The word is Jasmin Emrić, and five minutes, I remind you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5826	I thank the chairman. Well, you said well, we're setting an example in Bosnia and Herzegovina, just a bad example, because this is the Parliament that has at least worked in time since the state of natural or other disasters was declared, or we haven't worked at all, and I am now asking the question of the College – why haven't we worked? And that is why I have completed the agenda of today's session, so that this session may have some content. After two months, the College suggests only one item of the agenda, and that we change the Rules of Procedure so that we can work from home, and that we work from home, when the epidemic that was caused by the coronary is slowly subdued by the virus, which is placed under control. Well, my colleagues, my predecessors, have said, this may well be justified, but a month ago, today, you'd be late, gentlemen. We are late with everything, for all countries in the region and in Europe. Long ago, state parliaments in the environment had sessions and measures, all parliaments were in session, but it was not this Parliament of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that is what I am concerned about. And that is why we need to start today from something and I have proposed, the Honorable Chairman, supplementing the agenda with the Information already discussed by the BiH Presidency, which was drawn up by the Council of Ministers because it was at the regular session of the BiH Presidency. I asked for this information, to see what the situation is, what is the health and epidemiological situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no such information, I can't get it. That is why I have requested, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I demand that the agenda be complemented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to be read. Please don't violate the Rules of Procedure at this emergency session, there's no reason. My colleagues have made a good conclusion and noticed, my predecessors, we have the best conditions to work and decide. Here, a distance of two meters, protective masks, gloves, few that Parliament has these conditions to work. This is the smallest Parliament, then one of the smallest in the world, so we're not the Russian Duma so we need some huge halls or the Chinese Parliament. We are Parliament of 42 MPs, who, behold, has this great hall and we can work and therefore I find it unnecessary, completely unnecessary to change the Rules of Procedure in the way you have suggested it. I suggest that this Parliament works on regular sessions, that the College convenes a regular session with the necessary agenda as soon as possible, with everything that should follow this state of natural and other disasters. I suggested a agenda item, explained, please put it to the vote, and the emergency procedure after the vote of the agenda. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5827	Thank you. The word has Dragan Mektić, then Peđa Kojović. Here, while it comes out for a pay phone to say that the College is already in agreement on the next session of the College and the regular session of the House of Representatives. It will, depending on the decision of the College, and of the overall situation will be either in this hall or online. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5828	Dear members of the College, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members. I welcome you all, and I'm really glad to find you in good health. I particularly appreciate it in the context of this discussion today and what something has been said about it. I am personally against holding an emergency session of this House of Representatives so that if we were more responsible to the people, if we were more responsible to the citizens, we would have met a long time ago, whether at an emergency or some other session and discussed this crisis and everything that is affecting us and the consequences of this crisis. You said the chairman that we should be an example, so if we followed the example of this House, then no one would do anything, because we didn't do anything. Why such an example? We have shown, I say so, and from before, that we have had this attitude towards politicians and responsible people, that they are hypocrites, that they are irresponsible people, that they are half-trons, and now we have shown it and we have proved it in a way that when the people need it most to react, to decide, to lead, to make decisions as the highest authority of the government, we hide ourselves in the mouse holes. We had to meet, we had to make decisions, and at the cost that our health was threatened to save the people, and we were the first to run away, disappeared, nowhere to anyone. So how could I be in some serious situation if the people don't give up Bog depends on us? How are we not ashamed to act like this? This is a shame, this is a shame, and this is now, I think we've exposed ourselves to the extent that now the people have seen and who we are and what we are. It really doesn't make sense, and now that this whole situation, at least by the words of experts and experts, brings an end, we're, like, planning some kind of emergency session after which something like us could do from home and, like, attach some meaning to ourselves now, etc. I am personally ashamed, I say once again, that we are not at first, in the pandemic of having all the conditions, meeting here and discussing how to protect the lives and health of citizens, how to help the economy, how to help the economy to survive this. They're totally on their own, totally on their own, and they only have false promises like we're here. And that is why I propose and support Parliamentarian Arnaut's proposal to give up some privileges, we don't do people. We lie at home, we do nothing, let's give up some privileges. Let's give up our last paychecks in favor of not knowing how to help anyone who needs it right now in this crisis, we haven't worked people, we haven't done anything we didn't have any obligations. I've done nothing about my duties, MPs, I haven't done a month and a few days except sometimes look at the portals and see what's going on. This is the time used for crime, for further corruption and we are, we keep it quiet and this is how we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5829	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kojović has his word. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5830	I thank the chairman. I welcome all my colleagues, I'm glad you're... My name is Predrag, Peđa is very, as I would say, a familiar thing reserved for my friends and family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5831	But I told Predrag, did I say right?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5832	I still hear great. Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Article 71. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the agenda, i.e. that everyone has the right to propose a supplement, that all proposals are made by the House of Commons, I don't understand, uh, what is funny to you, but that you, too, as I would say, are simply ignoring it. There are a lot of powers that you have, but there are also, as I would say, restrictions on those powers that are in this House. One of them is no matter what you think about our proposals for supplementing the agenda you must give or allow according to the Rules of Procedure to make this House known. We were in contact, given the fact that our Club of Our Party-Independent Block on 30 March submitted a request for an emergency session of this House and in those contacts in which you explained to me why this is not happening and why only now the reasons that you listed are moving from banal to meaningless, honest. In the meantime, we have proposed, so, some things that should have helped citizens and businesses from the simplest things that counterpart Saša Magazinović has been looking for here for months, moving VAT payments, things that Damir Arnaut was talking about, reducing costs, if it's of some economic benefit, then out of the courtesy of what's going on in the rest of the country or, say, some practical things like this, that alcohol being imported to produce disinfectants that are normally applied to alcohol used for consumption. And now we're here, so this is the only Parliament that hasn't been sitting at all during this period. Last time we met on March 11th, the 9th was declared a state of emergency, March 11th. In addition to the Hungarian Parliament which has made the decision not to meet during the emergency situation, this is the only European Parliament that has not sat down. We don't have budgets, we don't have transparency in spending money, and we have the opportunity to see the last days that we need it, so I am, above all, calling on you to put our proposals to add the agenda to the vote, to declare how the Rules of Procedure requires it, because otherwise this is really the abolition of Parliament, the abolition of democracy and one decision that is both factually and morally indefensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5833	Thank you. People's MP, Aida Baručija, if I've seen well.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5834	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5835	You're giving up. MP Zukan Helez. 7 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5837	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think today when they ask me where you've been, what you've been doing, I can't explain it to them. We have a agenda point – the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and the first sufferers seem to me on March 5th that it was, that it happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's been almost two months, we're changing the Rules of Procedure so we can do something about it and it could work. The whole world's dropping, here's what my colleagues said, in measures, and I think what's proposed to supplement the agenda, that we should adopt and try to work. You said to the chairman, as I understand it, that someone said that we should work 60 minutes as the most, abolished curfew, actually who can order us in this country, this is the highest legislative authority in the state, so I don't see that we can't. And in the end, it's not populism, but I really don't understand, incomprehensible, that miners can work, that textiles can work, that those women in textile factories work for 500 marks per ten, twelve hours, and that we here have fantastic conditions, that's Bogo-given, that we do and few states have, and the serious states have these conditions and, here, we like something, uh, we can't meet, we can't work. I've come to the conclusion that we actually have a country, but we don't have a country. You'll remember the migrant crisis, we were looking for an emergency session when there was a hit by migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina's biggest, we couldn't sit, the College didn't allow it. The reform programme, the AMP, and even today as the highest legislative body, we do not know what is written in this document, which is the correct version, which is also the exact version of the cake, the derogation of the state and the debt of the IMF. I sat at home and watched three people agree on a debt of about 650 million, one was in the elections and he got votes and the president was one party, this other was in the elections, he lost and was proposed to the House of Peoples, so that party suggested, so as he likes to say, he has no legitimacy and this third was not in the election at all, the president is the party that won, I don't know, no matter how many votes. And then this one, here to be specific, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović says – I gave Dodik there, uh, a few percent, they're more underdeveloped, and he's giving her flowers here in the Federation, workers by 400 marks work, by 500 marks, and we're who developed, and he generously gives those percentages. It's the biggest blow to a country that's understood, it's an attempt to make Palestine out of Bošnjak and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we as Parliament cannot keep our mouths shut. We're surrounded by everything, and who's the symbol of the state if it's not this Parliament? Why are we going to the election, why are we being chosen? I've been following all these events through this fight against the pandemic and the coronary virus, and there's a completely derogated state here. I've never seen the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he's equivalent to Plenković, a man who's put himself in charge of all the processes in Croatia, he's hiding somewhere, he's nowhere to be found. The Council of Ministers doesn't work, Parliament doesn't work, and often it says heroes are doctors, yes, heroes are drivers, yes, heroes are police officers, heroes are pensioners who were imprisoned there, but heroes here and the main ones who resisted the crown are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I congratulate them on this, probably people saw that the system didn't work, probably because of war experiences, so perhaps by expressing myself, and war immunity, people took seriously, showed that they could be more disciplined than Germany and France, the inhabitants of far more developed countries. I watched it work when it was released, when there was no more curfew, the exact same thing, people retreated again. So it's the citizens who have defended themselves and on 8 of them once again, I congratulate all the citizens who have taken it seriously and stayed in their homes. What counterpart Saša Magazinović was talking about, let's all take this seriously. So we watch, all MPs, watch how this situation is used for robbery, and, look, now it comes out to defend the owner of the company, I don't know, it seems to me that Hodžić's name is. I urge Mr. Novalić, Fadil and Mr. Bakir Izetbegović to come out and tell and explain to people why the respirator is three times more expensive than the one obtained in Italy, Germany in the United States, and, uh, elsewhere? And please, those of you who are in power, most of us remember postwar donations and theft, don't steal any more citizens, you took everything from them, there's naked skin and dignity of a Bosnian man, there's nothing left to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5838	Thank you, Mr. Helez. The word is Mr. Nermin Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5839	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I'll try to be a little faster than my predecessors. So, with everything I understand and what I agree with, which pointed to the problems we have here, so we are here to remove the problem and to create assumptions that we can work online, although I want to draw attention and suggest one conclusion. So here in Sarajevo today is held a session of the House of the People of the Federation, which means that conditions are being created, that they have lenient measures and that they can work, which is what I remind you, they have changed their rules of procedure and they can also work online, but they have been taught the experience from the work of the Federation House of Representatives' House of Representatives decided to work live at the plenary session, because it is difficult to do so especially when it comes to voting and decision-making. So I would suggest that we change this Rules of Procedure today, create assumptions for a future time if we need it, and that the House of Representatives declares a conclusion that will be determined to work in plenary sessions and that it does, therefore, in some accelerated capacity and on the accelerated background of the team before, here, we have witnessed that in the Federation, we have begun to reduce measures, to create assumptions and that we can, especially here in this House and in these conditions, work, and I think there are a lot of things that are waiting for us, which are mentioned today, that I am not using this speaker without need. Thank you. So, the conclusion is that we're still doing the plenary.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5840	Thank you, Mr. Nikšić. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go, ma'am. Please talk to me. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5842	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you and I am glad to see you after all this time. In principle, I agree with the discussions of my predecessors, but only in one I would disagree with my colleague, Mektić, who says we should be ashamed of ourselves or what we don't do, etc. I just don't want to get us in the same basket, because in this case we're not the same. So our club is also working, and I think the Secretary of the House will remember that on March 22nd, I sent him an e-mail with an inquiry and suggestions to find a way for this Parliament to work, with a sincere desire, therefore, to show responsibility to the citizens and to the actual function that we perform in this country. štur answer is that the Rules of Procedure are not intended for a phone session, I mean that I knew it myself, but I was hoping that professional services would, therefore, suggest to the College how this Parliament works in these situations. In order not to repeat myself, of course everything is already obsolete and it doesn't make sense, but here it makes sense, as Mr. Nikšić says, to eventually adopt amendments to the Rules of Procedure for some future, don't give God, events that could possibly lead us into a similar situation. And I'm also not in favour of following this restriction that we've got, because if this is a restriction that, therefore, this text that was waiting for us here when we got here, we see that these are also the dates of 03.04 and even 04.03. So, we see that even these measures are no longer measures that correspond to the current situation, since we are witnessing that the measures are, so, the ones most strongly in the package have already been abolished and that we finally have to and should work and that only, therefore, the possible adoption of amendments to the Rules of Procedure serve us for some future situations. I also hope that the MPs of this House have also shown their social sensitivity and solidarity with citizens and that they have already participated in voluntary work themselves, given up certain amounts of money, so I am not here today to bid. We have here, therefore, proposed amendments, or additions to the agenda, which determines any savings and therefore ask the College to act in accordance with Article 71. The Rules of Procedure, because obviously we have proposed additions to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5843	Thank you. Mr Branislav Borenović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5844	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, so surely this is today, April 28th, a bad message and a bad example when it comes to the work of this legislative body in the joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are absolutely right for colleagues who insist that Parliament begin to do its job as the Rules of Procedure provides. There are many important things to discuss, which concern, of course, this fight, the common fight against the crown of the virus, this monster that has affected not only Bosnia and Herzegovina but also the whole world and that it has a clear role in this Parliament. And that is why it would be good, not to repeat everything they have said, which points are important, why it is important that the sober heads clearly indicate that 10 has been made a lot of failures, that still the greatest responsibility on key people, the leadership of Parliament that is tasked with meeting this Parliament, to deliver the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to schedule the meetings of Parliament, and is a responsibility to you precisely why Parliament is so late, even though there was an initiative of MPs who came a few days ago. I think ten days ago was an initiative personally signed by me as an MP to hold an emergency session with certain items of the agenda regarding changes to the VAT law, amendments to the Excise Act and, of course, austerity measures in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But one answer to the question has not been received from you, which must be more precise – what did the Kolegijum consider and decide when it comes to the next session of the House of Representatives, when specifically? Do not waste time again and wait for a session of the Kolegijum to be held on Wednesday, and will agree on Wednesday to be on the next Wednesday and thus send an even worse message, an even worse example than this one has been, which we all agree on. You have to tell us clearly, in addition to what we expect, I expect all these proposals to be respected today, adopted, that Parliament will go public, to the citizens with certain decisions that are strong, which are necessary, but you must tell us whether we will have the next session of Parliament by some dynamics that you are probably considering as the leadership of this House, on Friday, on Tuesday, Wednesday, that we can also send a message in this way that Parliament, in addition to everything that has happened, will start to do its job in some more normal circumstances and thus become, what you said, an example of having to go back to some normal flows, respecting, of course, all the health recommendations that this is going on and how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5845	Thank you, Mr. Borenović. I'm closing the hearing because there are no more reports. Parliament is pleading for an emergency procedure. Please, we're voting the ballots, so who's in favour of the College's proposal to discuss it in an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5846	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5847	Mr. Arnaut we heard you, I'm running a session, we heard you, you're gone, you're wrong. So, please, you're interrupting the session's work. We vote, please the service to count the votes. Who's in? Thank you. Is it counted? Who's against it? Abstained? There isn't. There's one. Okay, I'm asking the secretary yes. It voted 27 for, did it hear? 27 for, 5 against and 1 abstention. We're missing a number of votes, that's what there are, please, 40 MPs in the O.R., and here's a list of 33. We're gonna have to call it. 11 I ask the secretary to call, so we can get there anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5848	Good afternoon, everyone. Aida Baručija, Alma Čolo, Borjana Krišto, Vlatko Glavaš, Damir Arnaut, Darijana Filipović, Denis Zvizdić, Edin Mušić, Edita Đapo, Enver Bijedić, Zlatan Begić, Zukan Helez, jasmin Emrić, Mijo Matanović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Stevandić, Mirsad Sanja, Nada Mladina is not there, Nermin Nikšić, Nermin Mandra, Nikola Lovrinović, Predrag Kožul, Predrag Kojović, Safet Softić, Saša Magazinović, Halid Genjac, Nenad Nešić, Šemsudin Dedić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Adil Osmanović, Branislav Borenović, Dragan Bogdanić, Dragan Radmanović, Jakov Galić, Ljubica Miljanović, Mira, Mirko Šarović, Nekić, Nekjanja Nebojša, Nekjanja Mirić, Vulić, Snježana, Novaković-Bursać
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5849	For the vote 30-18 from the Federation of BiH, 12 from Republika Srpska. Against 7 – all of the Federation of BiH. Abstained 3-2 from the Federation of BiH, 1 from Republika Srpska. I find that the motion for an emergency procedure has been adopted, has general, has an entity majority. I'm opening a debate on a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure. Ad. 1. The request of Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly Chairman Nebojša Radmanović, the first deputy chairman, Borjana Krišto, and the second deputy chairman, Denis Zvizdić, to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-4-805/20 of 15.04.2020 Here you go. Who's calling? Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5851	So this has shown that, if you hadn't proposed these amendments to the Rules of Procedure to fight the Coronal Virus, you would have not, because if you wanted to do something to help, to help fight the Coronal Virus, to help strengthen the economy due to this pandemic emergency session, you would have called for another 30.03. when I suggested these amendments to the Rules of Procedure that you later signed and pushed here as your own, and you would have done so, so, on 30.03. when we were still in the pandemic and when it was necessary for Parliament to meet urgently, and then only you could meet electronically, but you didn't do it. You did it when absolutely all the measures started to drop. We are only discussing today, on the 28th day after the Republic of Croatia almost fully relaxed measures, and not to say that its Parliament has been sitting this whole time, bringing economic measures, taking austerity measures, is taking concrete measures in the fight against the coronary virus, and you are proposing this at the moment. So, we are only discussing today whether we can have electronic sessions, when there is no need to have electronic sessions anymore, while at the same time breaking the Rules of Procedure harshly. This is a fact, Mr. 12 Radmanoviću, you've been knowingly breaking the Rules of Procedure today with your colleagues. I find it particularly unclear here Mr. Zvizdić, since we have proposed as one of the new points of the agenda his Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act, which shows that it was a purely populist measure, if a man will not put it on the agenda, if you refused our request for an emergency session to put it on the agenda, shows that it was a purely populist measure as if something were proposed without actually doing anything. And this is really necessary to underline again, what we have today is an attempt to convert... and I say try, because we will not allow it and we will fight hard against it, trying to turn Bosnia and Herzegovina into a pure party democracy that will be run by three parties and it will not even be three parties, because we know very well that the three of you in these three parties are absolutely nothing, but it will be led by three people. So, the party democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be led by Mr. Dodik, Mr. Izetbegović and Mr. Čović and they decide whether Bosnia and Herzegovina will activate 330m euros from the IMF, it is still not activated, we are discussing whether we will have an electronic vote here, it is still not activated because not only this Parliament is asked about it, nothing is asked about it, nor is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, nor is it asked about Mr. Komšić,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5852	Mr. Arnaut... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5853	Neither is Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Dodik, Mr. Čović and Mr. Izetbegović. I'll continue, Mr. Radmanović, if you'd like to take my word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5854	You're not in the agenda, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5855	If you want to take away my word
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5856	I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5857	'Cause I'm telling you
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5858	I warn you, you are not within the agenda and you are running out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5859	Mr. Radmanović, I warn you that you are not going to discuss today your bodyguards being abolished, so come on, you explain to me, why do you need bodyguards here behind these doors, and there is no media here, who are you afraid of, from the people? Well, I'd be afraid of the people too if I didn't let today's vote on abolishing these privileges, that's completely understandable, but it's not understandable to the citizens and it's not justified.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5860	13 You have another warning that you are not in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5861	Here's the third warning I'm telling you, you won't give up your salary, you won't give up your car, you won't give up your team. Why do you need a team, you meet online, who do you order coffee for? What do you need a team for, why don't we vote today to abolish it in the rest of 2020? Do you want a third warning or should I continue?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5862	In accordance with Article 79. I'm taking your word from the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5863	I keep going, you don't want to cut your salary 20%,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5864	Mr. Arnaut, I took your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5865	You won't, you won't lift the excise on alcoholics. Well, you see, you can't take away my word, you can't take away the people's word. Do you see how effective you are in managing, or not having this session, and here all of your impotence is manifested today. You can't take my word for it, you can't get me out of the pay phone unless you bring in your unnecessary bodyguards to drive me out here. You've shown all the lardy today, and now ask Milet what you're going to do next.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5866	Ladies and gentlemen, I warned at the beginning that we should stick to the agenda, show dignity, that at a high level this House will end this session, unfortunately we have an excess, we all have to stick to what's written here and this already, this doesn't make any sense. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I warn you, two other MPs have come forward for the floor, please stick to the agenda, and that is the proposal for an addendum to the Rules of Procedure and that you adhere to the time set out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5868	Dear Chairman, first of all, I would like to support this position of yours that we should be working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have now answered because you have violated Rule 72. I, in accordance with the Poslovnik of Procedure, proposed to supplement the agenda of today's emergency session, provided written material in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we should have made clear, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of all the proposed items of the agenda of today's emergency session. You did not allow it, honourable 14 chairman, and then invite us MPs to be patient and that we work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you do not have to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask that this be entered in the record, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure at this sixth emergency session, where you are asking us to amend the Rules of Procedure so that you may then be the absolute ruler of all sessions. So now you've shown why you shouldn't allow amending the Rules of Procedure, now you've shown it. How will you conduct online sessions when you violate the Rules of Procedure, here in this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Imagine what you do and then invite us to be patient, to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So wait, you don't tell us to go home, sit at home, don't come, don't do anything, you'll have great pay, you've got great salaries and you're sitting at home, what you're going to do here in this honored House. What are we doing here? Let's change the Rules of Procedure when the epidemic is over. Imagine the messages, we're sending a message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the border police, a past epidemic, and we MPs have called a session and you know what we've done to protect ourselves so that, God forbid, our health is in danger, and everything is gone, under the control of the epidemic. So we didn't call a session, an emergency session to protect the border police, who I watched as daily, as they were at daily risk, to be infected. Not only them, but the doctors, we heard the comments, as doctors on sick leave. We resent them, and we don't mind why we don't do gentlemen dear. So are we on sick leave, so we're on sick leave as this mandate begins.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5869	Time, Mr. Emrić. Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5870	So I do not support the amendments of the Rules of Procedure because I do not trust the College, because this College does not make timely decisions and does not work in the interests of this House and therefore I am against an emergency procedure. I understand that there is a need for a business order to call a session in a state of natural or other dangers or accidents, but not in this way, and it is not now the time, it is no longer an emergency time, we can, in a regular procedure taught by this experience of Parliament's unhappiness, the College meets, does not meet, we do not know at all what they are doing. So we are the only Parliament that does nothing about economic measures. Shouldn't he be the chairman of the Council of Ministers today to provide us with the information he submitted to the BiH presidency, to know that we have a beginning, to see where we are, what we are, what is the precedent, what is the analysis, what are the priorities,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5871	Mr. Emrić,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5872	modes of action, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5873	We've limited time to five minutes, and you're already talking for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5874	I thank the Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5875	Thank you, thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5876	And that's because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5877	Thank you. Mr. Brane Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5878	So I really think that in this way you are missing a good opportunity to at least open a few important topics that are urgent, that can't wait and deserve that, if anything else, at least let the initiatives that came from the MPs, as far as this pandemic is concerned, let us know whether or not we want to discuss it. Four points of the agenda could be found together with this fifth, i.e. This first one, which has just been discussed on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, which is important for working in exceptional circumstances, but we see no reason why we did not take advantage of today's session of this House to discuss possible changes to the VAT, austerity measures, the Excise Act and ultimately the information that we need to bring here key people in the Council of Ministers of BiH when it comes to fighting the Coronary Virus. And logically, the question arises, the question that you are doing this consciously, that you have deliberately decided to schedule this session, that almost two months the House of Representatives has not been sitting and this session today is, the question of the purpose of the session is being asked, regardless of what the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are important for emergency circumstances, but now that this crisis is over, the question is being raised at this point. We have all the working conditions, we can work here for three days, we can put the beds, we can stay in this room for 24 hours, we can make all the laws and all the decisions that are urgent for both the Republic of Serbia and the Federation and for the Brcko District and for every man who lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not know why you allowed yourself to do so, not to allow other very important points of the agenda at this session of Parliament, and then it is perfectly logical that you do not manage the House of Representatives, that there must be no party centres of power and leaders of the ruling coalition, and when it comes to these matters, in matters of health and when it comes to the economy, there must be no party books, there must be no politics, there must be no religion, there must be no status symbols, there must be no party symbols, especially, but we must all be unique in making certain strong measures. You've missed a great opportunity, there's a huge responsibility on you, and obviously you've done it consciously.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5879	Thank you. Mr. Adil Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5880	And just another sentence, even though we voted for the session to be, that it has an urgent character because it is an emergency, after what you did when it comes to the initiatives of certain MPs, I think it raises the question at all whether to vote for one item of the agenda....
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5881	Okay, thank you. 16 Mr. Adil Osmanović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5882	Thank you, Chairman. Also welcome to the chairman, co-chairing fellow Members and fellow MPs, allow me to present our views on behalf of the SDA Members' Club. First of all, it is good that we have called today's emergency session of the House of Representatives at which we will discuss and hopefully make a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of this High House and allow this House to work in very difficult situations, as we say, emergency situations. We hope there will be a very small number, we liked it to be, not to have any sessions online, to hold sessions here in this way. Secondly, we agree that with a delay called this session today, it should have been convened long before, in particular we saw that other homes on the new entity and canton, and even the municipalities were sitting and we were to sit down and give answers to this pandemic. And what the SDA Parliament Club is looking for, insists, is that after this session as soon as possible, a regular session will be convened before we can discuss these bill proposals, which have come from the Council of Ministers, by MPs, and that in a regular procedure we continue our work and give an answer as far as possible to this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5883	Thank you. Miss Sanja Vulić. I've already said, if you remember, that the College has agreed and that I have a large number of agenda points prepared for the regular session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5884	Good afternoon, everyone. The Honorable Presidency first, I would like to point out that we do not respect the recommendations of the Office of Public Health Canton Sarajevo and that we have been in this room for over 60 minutes. Secondly, I'd like to know about these colleagues who are telling us that the pandemic has passed or passed, which experts have told you and proved to you, because I don't know where you're getting the idea that when all the experts are going, they're going to tell the lady, Daria DarijKisić-TepavčevićTepavčević, who tells us daily, speaks and sends a message that this pandemic can be expected to last until the end of the year. So when you have the find and opinion of the relevant people for it and you have the guarantee that the pandemic has passed, then you can say that it has passed, yet it has not passed. I also want to say, I am pleased that today we are in agreement, and that is to conclude with this, this agenda for the addition of the Rules of Procedure, and I think it is extremely inappropriate, Mr Ermić, that you hold the letter to Mr Radmanović that he does not respect the Rules of Procedure, when you, in your vote, "for" at the previous regular session, broke the laws. But, of course, the violation of the law, the Constitution and all the people who did, who didn't, I could now refer here to the complete SNSD Club and the Serbian Club what we were doing at the pandemic, 17 where we were engaged, by Dr. Stevandić and all of us, that we gave one and two complete salaries to the funds, this one, but we'll talk about it when the time comes, let's focus on doing this right, because as I said, I don't see a guarantee that we're sitting here for more than 60 minutes, if the profession said we're 60 minutes, let's be civilized and at least respect the profession.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5885	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5886	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, until this instructions of the Canton Institute of Public Health is changed, I think it should be respected, I may think that it is stricter than it could be, but I am not an epidemiologist, nor do I chair that institution. So if it changes then we can hold the sessions in another way, everything else would be, I don't know, someone answered it like what we do if we hold it, so we don't respect the meaning of basic postulates. It's a medical profession, as it can be chemical or biological, we're MPs, so we're the first to show how to respect, to say, Jesus, the rules and everything else. As for the possibilities for an online session that has been offered that today has been voted out, although I have a large reserve according to it, I think that it was initially mainly the request of fellow opposition MPs and that this is in some way, with some delay okay, going to meet them to be held in order to hold meetings and in case this pandemic might be, to say the whole May after all. From a professional point of view, you saw in Germany as soon as they gave in to the measures of 0.3, the number of patients and infected and severely infected, so one, one, one, one, as soon as they gave in, 0.7, is now coming. So, we don't know, I expect in the sixth month from what I know there won't be any problems, for the fifth we can't estimate, but here's if we give in to the measures why today we don't adopt the rules for an online session, which may need it at some other time, I say, although I have large reserves personally against online sessions and it can turn into anything, why not say that we've come to a consensus that we have the possibility for online sessions in some extraordinary circumstances which may be different from the pandemic or again pandemic in November, and that very soon when the Canton Sarajevo Institute of Public Health changes this decision or, in accordance with the discounting of measures, we schedule a regular and debate. I think we should run away from some story of populism, each of us has chosen the way he will work and help, of course, we are more able to work and help than ordinary citizens, I think many have shown that. Don't let this be some kind of shooting, some senseless pulsism. I think many things must be brought together in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what you know about my political views that the most important to me is Republika Srpska. When I was looking for additional alcohol for a Russian contingent that... I found it in Brcko and I found the possibility that it could be produced in Tuzla, Brcko and Prijedor, in three places, it's like someone was working in two entities and the District. I don't personally understand the measure that we release alcohol imports, import alcohol excises and I think it's... but we'll talk about it at other sessions, I think it's much smarter to take off the excise for those who produce alcohol, it's a waste alcohol that's made for disinfection, so it can be made by Predorcan, Dita Tuzla, and I don't know what they're called the Brckos. I think that we should be committed to these measures, I understand here the 18 role of Bosnia and Herzegovina to facilitate both of them to fight to have their own alcohol, to preserve jobs and to produce themselves, and I haven't noticed anything in preparation in the last 20 days that there have been many economic, fundamentally well-worked topics to offer them to the Council of Ministers or to this Parliamentary Assembly, I have not noticed, I have noticed the bickering. We've been fighting both at crisis stations and at the border, and I'm not gonna use this to make some remarks right now, whatever I thought I said and everybody knows about it... Of course we should have been in line in many places and in what is called border quarantines and in local quarantines and that the inspection and one and the other had to have some application to know the same second we got what measure in the Federation, which in Republika Srpska, there is nothing to hide. Of course it took both the Federation and Republika Srpska to have the same second application
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5887	Time, Mr. Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5888	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5889	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5890	You let others go, so you can also let me, the application that every organ in Republika Srpska and the Federation knows who entered which border from which municipalities to make it better... There are measures that can be brought here and that make life easier for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and whether we are going to take these measures by bickering with each other. Once again, I accept the possibility, here's an online session and I accept very quickly as soon as the rules change for the second session, I think that's the most normal everything else here is groundless pulsism and bickering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5891	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. We are pleading on a proposal for an addendum to the Rules of Procedure. I ask the secretary to call again, because it is safer, call you to vote, and she will, we will have a further proposal for Mr Nermin Nikšić's conclusion, but first of all, about the addition to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5892	We're voting on the proposal, so, additions to the Rules of Procedure. Aida Baručija, Alma Čolo, Borjana Krišto,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5893	Yes. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5894	Vlatko Glavaš, Damir Arnaut, Darijana Filipović, Denis Zvizdić, Edin Mušić, Edita Đapo, Enver Bijedić, Zlatan Begić, Zukan Helez, jasmin Emrić, Mijo Matanović – za, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Mirsad Kukić, Nermin Mandra, Nermin Nikšić, Nikola Lovrinović, Predrag Kožul, Predrag Kojović, Safet Softić, Saša Magazinović, Halid Genjac, Dženan, Šemsudin Dedić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Adil Osmanović, Branislav Borenović, Dragan Bogdanić, Dragan Mektić, Jakov Galić, Ljubica Miljanović, Mira Pekić, Mirko Šarović, Nebojša Radmanović, Nebojša Radmanović,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5895	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5896	Nenad Stevandić, Oberen Petrović, Sanja Vulić, Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-04-28-0.u5897	While the service collects everything, I read another proposal for Mr Nermin Nikšić's conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives concludes that we work in a plenary session, respecting all measures of protection and distance prescribed by the competent services. So we vote on this conclusion after the report. For 36 – from Federation of BiH 24, from Republika Srpska 12. Against – one from the Federation of BiH. Maintained 3-2 from the Federation of BiH, 1 from Republika Srpska. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that an addition of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted. I suggest that by acclaiming Mr. Nermin Nikšić's proposal for a conclusion, I think it's simpler. Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find Mr. Nermin Nikšić's conclusion was adopted by majority of the votes. I'm concluding the sixth emergency session of the House of Representatives, which as you've seen has not gone completely without incidents, unfortunately. The next session we're already planning, which I've talked about twice, you'll be notified very quickly. Thank you. Session completed at 13:32 p.m. 20
