ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7817	I assume the reports are shared, which means we can start working. Mr. Đonlagić, that's possible, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 9th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which usually begins by intonating the anthem. The absence from the session was justified by the MPs: Ljubica Miljanović, Jakov Galić, Nenad Nešić, Nikola Lovrinović, Predrag Kojović and Mirsad Kukić. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] He announced Nermin Nikšić, a folk MP, a delay. There are 35 present, which means we have a quorum for work and decision-making. The ninth emergency session was convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure, with one item on the agenda. I'm guessing we have the agenda at the 9th emergency session, next. Agenda 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, Proposer: Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1266/20 of 26.06.2020 shortened procedure (second reading). Point one is, therefore, Ad. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, Proposer: Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1266/20 of 26.06.2020 shortened procedure (second reading). You have received a Report from the Commission on Finance and Budget, the Commission adopted the draft law and the proposed amendments have not been adopted. National MP jasmin Emrić submitted an amendment in the plenary phase in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure and we'll discuss it. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Mr. jasmin Emrić, come in. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7819	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As you have announced, I have submitted one amendment to the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2020. During the debate on the principles of the 2020 Budget, I announced that I would submit an amendment concerning the migrant crisis, because I was disappointed by the fact that the Council of Ministers, the competent ministries had not planned a single conversion mark for these purposes for the migrant crisis. I said and repeat again, it is commendable that they had an understanding of the health- epidemiological situation, the pandemic and the epidemic caused by COVID-19, which predicted the recovery of economic damage due to the pandemic of the coronary virus. The amount of 42 million is not something, but it is a good message for employers in BiH. The message is that the situation is followed, however, and that there will be a willingness to help BiH's economy through modest means and to repair economic damage in a small part. But I also stressed that there is also a migration crisis in BiH and that migration and migrant routes passing through BiH and that they are disrupting economic and economic development in BiH, especially in the Un-San canton, in Canton from which I also come and represent citizens of the Un-San canton. I, however, expected that there would be an understanding of this migrant situation and understanding of what I had discussed earlier, as I pointed out until this session of the Finance and Budget Commission, and then I was surprised by the position of the parties, above all, by those who have a majority and parties whose Council of Ministers, SDA, HDZ, SNSD, that they are against all amendments, regardless of which these amendments are some and justified etc. But not all amendments are the same, I asked for the necessary emergency intervention funds in a modest amount of 450 thousand converting marks for the migrant crisis. The budget is 1.8 billion, and from that budget it can't even be 450 thousand, that's the Commission's position on finance and budget. If this House decides, as well as the Commission for Finance and Budgets, then BiH does not want a single mark, or the Budget BiH authorities in this country, to give a single mark for the migrant crisis. I do not want to politicise and lead this debate into the political field, but I am amazed at this attitude and I am reluctant to stay in some appropriate tone, but would this amendment, which provides for the reduction of the current reserve by 450 thousand converting marks and those 450 thousand would be aimed at the resolution of the consequences of the migrant crisis in a way that in part of the budget, direct transfer from the Single Journal of the Treasury is added a new item under a regular number of 22 that reads – transfer of other levels of government, the Ministry of Justice and the administration of the Uno-Sancan canton to subsidise the costs of accommodation and feeding of prisoners in criminal-repaired establishments and other costs resulting from the processing of criminal acts committed by migrants or are injured by migrants. And for these purposes, we're looking for 450 thousand converting marks. But we're not looking by heart, it's been a long time since the Department of Justice's correspondence and the administration of the UN-Sancan canton with the competent ministries. Acts were referred to in a timely manner in last year's Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Council of Ministers, reasoned, as to why these costs are being sought, because migration and asylum are in the jurisdiction of the BiH state. So whose problem are the migrants? Is it just the Unco-San canton, because they come there by force of opportunity, because it's a route and they're all directed to come here, the migrants say they want to, because they want to move to the European Union. Croatia has closed the borders, the EU has closed the borders, migrants are hard to pass now, now, at this point thousands of migrants are on the roadways in the UN-San canton, which are walking back and forth from the border, and back to the Interim Acceptment Centre to recover, rest and retake the same route, trying for days, months. For years we've been talking about it, the competent institutions aren't working, and right now, this is the worst message, the worst message, no brand can, can. Well, gentlemen, this is about maintaining a legal order in the three Un-San cantons, because the Un-San canton can't finance it all, it can't, it needs to be paid for by experts, court interpreters, in all these processes. These are expensive processes for migrants. Migrants are aggressive, commit crimes and criminal acts, it must be processed, temporary detention measures must be laid down, migrants then reside in criminal and correctional institutions in the UN-San canton and all of these are invoiced to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which is not provided for, there is no means of migration. Well, migration isn't our problem, and the state has to have hearing, that's what I'm talking about. This is symbolism, this is supposed to be a message, and it should have been at least one mark, it should have been said, here's one migration mark, we know about this problem, there's one mark in this year, and next year we'll see what, but there's nothing we can do about it. As we all understand, there's nothing he can do. I understand colleagues and colleagues who come from different areas of BiH, but my colleague, Šemsudin Dedić, cannot understand that he is voting against the amendment at a meeting of the Finance Commission and the budget. Against the Canton he comes from, there's no excuse. I'm sorry, but I have to do this, I've had my understanding, I expected it to be at least, at least, that there would be an understanding, that there would be some argumentative debate about, that it would be seen, I'm not suggesting anything that significantly disrupts the budget of 1.8 billion is Budget and can't be 450 grand for migration, it can't, it can't be legal, it can't be safe. If there's no legal order, there's no security. So can you imagine the risky situation in the UN-San canton, where, on a daily basis, thousands of migrants are on public surfaces, on the streets, on roads, and of course there is a conflict and of course there are criminal and criminal acts, all of which must be processed and all of this is now funded from the budget of the Un-San canton. There are costs, we can't go on, we don't know who we're going to talk to, but I expected this House to understand, that this House is going to give that message, but there's nothing to do, I represent these citizens, and that's why I'm doing this emotionally, because I'm asking for something to do, to understand this situation, to control the migrant crisis. The migration crisis is not the problem of one area, municipalities and cities in one part of BiH, but the whole state should constantly work, as we have recognised the need to tackle economic damage due to COVID-19, so we must recognise that the intervention works, so we are not looking for infrastructure, we are not looking for some projects, but what is the obligation to preserve the legal order, legal certainty, the rule of law and the security of all citizens at the end of the country. We send a very ugly message to all other areas in BiH, it is a message that if you receive migrants you will not get any marks and what is happening, so only migrants are directed to the Un-San canton and what is expected to choke that region, that we can no longer keep it under control. It's a bad message, I don't understand those policies that they don't want to see. So I understand all the policies and budget arrangements, etc. But from the current reserve, 450 thousand can't, it's a message and the citizens need to hear it. If I were any authority I would support it, any representative would have suggested it. Because of this situation, esteeming this situation, and right at the Finance Commission's session and the budget, I heard an explanation, as if appreciating this whole situation, so we can't accept it, so just because you appreciate this situation has to be done, it has to work. My colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you to support this symbolism, this amendment so simple, so easy for everyone, that we adopt it, that we send it here at the end of the message, that after all these discussions, we have understanding of both the migrant situation and that we send a message to all the citizens in BiH that this country will intervene when it feels like it should and will know, it will be able to deal with all the challenges, especially the challenge of the migrant crisis. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7820	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7821	The Honorable Chairman and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It's a little rough, correcting the wrong allegations, nothing a colleague has said wrong, so maybe some more appropriate qualification would be in another way, but all this stuff that his colleague was saying is consequences. The consequences of the inefficientness of institutions, largely because of their unfulfilled, destructive borders, because we don't have people to ensure the resolution of the cause and therefore, we supported, our representative on the Commission supported this amendment and we, we, we, we stand behind it, we support this approach, it's all right, but people, including our colleague Emrić, so we just voted in favour of the factic moratorium on employment in the state institutions. Hundreds of border police officers are missing, and on the wings of pulsism, hands are raised here, and no consideration is given to the consequences, and then an amendment is being put in place that requires the resolution of the consequences. The way we've been doing today and how we've been taking positions here as if we're making a market for migrants, disabling institutions, or capacitating institutions to stop the migrant crisis where it stops, and that's at the borders of this country, and not in Bihac, not in the Un-San canton. When the migrants come to the Unsaniscan Canton, it's already too late, and then we can just cry and wait there for someone to share anything with us in Tuzla Canton and we have this problem and the gentlemen of Unsaniscan canton, and that's why we should be more responsible to approach any question. I think at least as far as I'm concerned, as far as populism and populist proposals are concerned, as was this moratorium on employment in state institutions, I'm no longer prepared to support it. Let the gentlemen who make such proposals come to the level of the entity, to the level of the canton, to the level of local self-government, where we have the awakening of the administration, so let them do it there, it makes sense, the state institutions cry out for human beings and we all know it here, and because we don't have people in institutions, we don't have cops, and you know in the end it's very degutant that those who have the salary of six thousand marks bring a moratorium to hire those whose salary is seven to eight hundred marks, and these things should be talked about already. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7822	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković. I'd like to remind you that two minutes is a two-minute correction to the wrong quote. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7823	I'll stick to it. I would only correct Mr. Begić's false allegations here when he talks about populistism, since our club is one of the pronouns of this conclusion that is spoken of. In fact, if we remember, and can also check it out, for example, for the sake of my discussion and discussion of fellow Emrić before we reached that conclusion, we were just discussing it in a way that it is logical that in certain segments employment should be increased, just by stating, for example, at least I cited it, the Border Police, but it was unclear for us that and what 5 of these jobs are to be employed in, say, joint services of BiH institutions, it seems to me, over 30, whether 30 or 33 new jobs. So this is about us just having to set priorities and, of course, the border police are something that's a priority, but that employment in joint institutions, in joint services, at least us, remains unclear, because we don't know what jobs they are. And I also said in my discussion that there are still segments where employment must be more important and more important, here's why I'm not repeating myself now, so the point is that we just set priorities, and border police are certainly a priority.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7824	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7825	I thank the chairman. A colleague reminded us of the conclusion we adopted at the previous session, and he referred to what his colleague said as a job moratorium. It's not a job moratorium, it's a restriction on employment in 2020, and it's to the next job, meaning the BiH Joint Jobs Service 30 persons, which is foreseen by this Budget to employ a new 30 people in the Service of Joint Affairs. Six persons at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, two persons at the Ombudsman Institution, etc. The BiH presidency then increased to 345 thousand converting marks or 8% due to the dynamics of employment of 25 additional employees approved in Budget in 2019. The Directorate for indirect taxation also has a new one of its own employment dynamics. So, we've come to the conclusion that we're limiting this employment, not that decision from earlier where the Council of Ministers adopted some dynamics to complete the necessary staff at the Ministry of Security, or the Border Police. So, I support that, but this conclusion is said that every, every new employment should be explained and backed up, so that they can get a job. Of course, it is fully justified that the Border Police perform the full necessary staff and it is always having my support and will have etc. But what I've been counting, so for these items, employment in 2020, the Joint Jobs Service, six persons at the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, that's 1.524.00 KM, that's an increase for this new job, and I'm looking for 450,000 for the migrant crisis. So wait a minute, what I'm talking about, means I welcome the fill-in, the staffing of the Border Police and the competent ministries in terms of controlling the migrant crisis, but not just the migrant crisis, but the general security, but I certainly am against these employment, because I don't know 30 new people in the Joint Affairs Service. Wait, 30 new people will come – why, where, where will they sit? I don't know that. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7826	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7827	adopt that conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7828	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Zlatan Begić, twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7829	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am truly at least famous here for not jumping on everyone and not replicating everyone, but I must really say now, I respect you, I really appreciate you 6 all here – not the mother of Muj that he gambled, but what he took out. Everything you said, colleague Emrić, that is not true, read the conclusion you adopted, none of what you have read from the budget is precise, but you have introduced a kind of moratorium, you have established a Council of Ministers, that in filling state institutions, including the Border Police, introduces ethnic consent and thus further blocks the filling of state institutions. So, everything you've read, you've read from the budget, you haven't read from the conclusion that you've just adopted. I don't know what you've been discussing, but I know what you've adopted, and at the end of the day everyone can go to the Parliamentary Assembly page and read that conclusion. Now that you've discussed such a conclusion and suggested, you've suggested the fact that you're giving the foundation in fact, the possibility for the Council of Ministers to interfere in and such a sad fill-up of state institutions, including the Border Service, including all those institutions that need to prevent the emergence of a migrant crisis on the cause, so maybe we wouldn't need to take care of the consequences now, that's what this is all about. And don't, please, for some cheap pulsism to put us all here in a position to even look ourselves in the eye and tell us that you've adopted something that you haven't adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7830	Wrong quote, Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7831	No, nor do I want to be a lawyer for my colleague Emrić, but this may be one of the good examples of how a smart and meaningful amendment and, above all, useful will be characterized by people who are in power and who are willing to use anything as an argument to operate in public why they behave like this. There is a huge disproportion between what counterpart Emrić is asking for with his amendment, so a very modest amendment for the purpose of combating the migrant crisis, compared to all that Begić mentions. I would have expected, as well as a lot of us here, that he was talking about the situation at the Ministry of Defense and that the DF had made an amendment, because it's their minister who doesn't even know how he's going to get through this year with a budget like this. That they were talking about the need to raise funds for the ANP, the NATO path, which is full of them rather than calling on the opposition to vote for the budget instead. And then on one amendment, which is completely rational, all its inconsistencies are out.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7832	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7833	The 7th National MP is obliged to tell the truth. So it's not true that I was talking about Mr. Emrić's amendment. Mr Ermić's amendment is supported by our member in the Commission and we continue to support him politically. I was talking about what my colleague Emrić did an hour before he tabled the amendment, believing it was two in contradiction. The information works, we have also proposed a part of the amendments relating to the Ministry of Defence in the parliamentary procedure. And let me tell you something, when it comes to the opposition, I don't know today, today the opposition was with the SDA, as far as I can tell. As for law enforcement and representation, of course, that you can't be a lawyer, you still need some references. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7834	Mr. jasmin Emrić, wrong quote, second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7835	I thank the chairman. I do not want to distort anything, here I will read the conclusion adopted: The BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to put all previously adopted decisions in 2020 on new employment out of force, and that any new employment is carried out only in the process that is necessary for the functioning of an institution that submits a reasoned and supported request to the BiH Council of Ministers, the number and that. So, decisions on new employment in 2020 and regarding this Budget and nothing else, and I've read to you what's foreseen in this Budget as new employment, that's on page 118 that I almost know by heart, that I'm not repeating it now, that's what I see. Is there anything else, I don't know, that's why I invited the Council of Ministers to work transparently so that my deputies can get acquainted with all the decisions made by the Council of Ministers, so I don't have to guess what the Council of Ministers adopted. And the need for personnel strengthening the Border Police takes three years, three years we've been talking about how we're going to strengthen the Border Police and decisions have been adopted on the Council of Ministers, even, I hope there have been some competitions, etc. I don't know. I'm not in power. So it was supposed to be over, so we wouldn't have these consequences that I'm talking about, but just because nothing's been done in the past few years, we now have consequences. I am seeking urgent intervention because of these consequences, due to ineffectiveness of work, because of the non-implementation of the Strategy for Migration and Asylum and the Action Plan, which I also talked about in this House, but in any case we will take into account the topic of migration and how we have time to discuss it, and we will take everything into account as far as migration is concerned. And this, this is some kind of emergency intervention for something that is so much needed by the Un-San canton, and I don't see the problem, uh, that now there's something even more problematic about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7836	Mr. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7837	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the opposition is with the U.S.A. The only people I see with the SDA, that's the DF, the only ones left with him, is now whether he's as a partner or as a pendant, that's every jury. And the truth is that you attacked the opposition yesterday that won't vote for the government budget, so it's the only country in the world where the government is attacking the opposition that won't support them. Here's what we'd like to support, but it's nice that Zukan Helez told you, there's no money for NATO, you didn't predict money for NATO. Here's these SNSD guys, dear, but there's no need for anyone to look forward to it, there's no money you promised, and there's no NATO road you promised, and we're not going to support that policy, so we're not going to support Budget for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7838	Mr. Begić, another violation of the Rules of Procedure. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7839	So, again, a member of the 7th National MP is obliged to tell the truth. We're not with the SDA or the ideological or any matrix, but we're against the SDP and you need to know this, this SDP, if we're going to talk about it. As for the NATO funds, don't be afraid, what do you think the reserve is this big, to disappoint a fellow SNSD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7840	Mr. Magazinović, another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7841	The Chairman of the Rules of Procedure's breach is evident in that you have allowed me, through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to pronounce replicas and on the basis of, therefore, to stop it, because if we enter into it we will go far, because the breach of the Rules of Procedure does not have a limit. Speaking of this part that the MP is obliged to tell the truth, counterpart Begić says he is not with the SDA and I agree that he is not with the SDA, because if you were with the SDA, you would be sitting with them at the table, but you didn't even throw up the table, so you're with the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7842	Please don't make me apply the Rules of Procedure consistently and take the right to judge whether or not it is, but as you two set out, it will have to happen. Mr. Begić, another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7843	Once again, Article 7. Is it our duty to tell the truth here, all of us, and to adhere to some code? So, uh, look, we can be at the end of the table and by the table and under the table, and we won't be at the table with you very simply.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7844	Mr. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You also have a discussion, in turn, waiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7845	Oh, I'll keep the discussion going, just so I don't waste my time on the discussion. I mean, you see, three times, Mr. Begić shows up for article seven, and it's obvious he's using a replica. You see, I am, if anything was creative, uh, with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, but you need to be creative, you can't do this, so you keep Article 7, Article 7, Article 7. Now I can, uh, with the discussion, right? 9
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7846	Thank you. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut, now a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7847	Thank you, Chairman. This budget was supposed to be adopted eight days ago, when the draft budget was on the agenda by emergency procedure. Following an emergency procedure, it was proposed by the BiH Presidency of the SDA, SNSD, DF, so the government. Under the same emergency procedure, he was supported by the College of this House in SDA, HDZ, SNSD, power in both cases, so. And then at that session, eight days ago, something unseen happened in democratic societies, the opposition supported an emergency procedure, and most authorities voted against an emergency procedure. And what's particularly surprising is that some parts of that government, specifically the SDA, made a speech so paternal in nature that the voice of the emergency procedure was a patriotic democratic duty. And then the MPs of that club SDA voted against or abstained until noon one, from noon to noon another, because to quote Mr. Genjac and his discussion that morning. So, I quote, Mr Halid Genjac – Finally, a statement on the emergency procedure and the adoption of the budget and a statement on whether we are to hold municipal elections or not, so we are not mystifying, those who follow election processes know that it is a critical time to choose those who should print election materials, and that the Election Commission cannot even start any of that operations, nor begin unless there is an insurance fund exclusively from the budget. And Mr. Genjac continues, so I'm still quoting – so I suggest we vote, first of all, on the emergency procedure for which my club will be, for reasons that I think are obvious enough. And then came the afternoon and Mr. Genjac was restrained about an emergency procedure, several members of his club, who he said everyone would be in, even voted against an emergency procedure. And what happened in the meantime? There has been a bar, not to say markets in Lukavica, there has been a trade and it is a shame that three people, Milorad Dodik, Bakir Izetbegović, Dragan Čović, can go to Lukavica and work the MPs here, in this House, to change their voice, and to some like Mr Genjac to change their words even, to eat their words, their explicit words, and to which Mr Genjac did not commit himself, but his whole club, as I quoted him earlier. And now I'm interested in how much these extra sessions cost, how much that store cost, those markets in Lukavica, are the questions you'll all have to answer to when the elections come, no matter how many you tried to postpone or cancel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7848	Thank you. Mr. Zukan Helez, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. 10 The SDP representative club will not support this budget and I want to explain to the public for the sake of the draft, we supported the budget of the BiH institutions. How did the change take place? So each draft budget serves as a good basis, and if those proposals and suggestions were respected, which the MPs were making, about the draft, to be incorporated into the proposal, so that any of these were put in place, we would be willing to support. I'll do a few things we don't want to support this budget for. First, in a situation like this, an increase in the number of employees, I said in a discussion about the draft, I would always support the increase in the number of border guards, to protect the borders, but here it's not just that, here is a far greater number of employees in some other institutions where I think there are still extra employees, that there should be a reduction in the number of employees. Having also in mind who are those who will be employed, which we all know are party people, further piling up the administration, and one of the preconditions for approaching the EU is to reduce the number of people in the administration. Secondly, I said last time, almost every item on every institution, ministry, an increase in compensation and wages, and I can't just raise my hand and we'll be against the budget for those reasons. What we concluded, when I was a minister, was that I sent an appeal to the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court replied that the conclusion was not mandatory in conduct. The conclusion is that, by our law, by our laws, it should be moral to, whether, if the minister or the one who needs to implement the conclusion, if he has some moral responsibilities, and legally and criminally does not answer if he does not. And that's why I think that, uh, whatever our conclusion, what they're saying is that they're going to hire new people in the administration, I think that's what's going to happen. And most importantly, of course, I'm disappointed both as a man and as a representative and as a politician, why there's no funding for ANP. The ANP programme and budget projections have nothing to do with each other. We're down another year, we're down for a decade, the environment is almost everything in the NATO Pact, I have a feeling, I don't know, unfortunately for me, that before Kosovo goes to NATO, a pact from BiH. We had, so the first budget after that napkin of praise, here we are in power to save, to go to NATO, etc. This is the first sign that there was nothing of it, that it was one colorful lie and that it was just to get some new policies into power at the state level. For this reason, the SDP Representatives' Club will be against the adoption of this Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7850	Thank you. Mr. Zlatan Begić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7851	I'm giving up the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7852	Mr. Adil Osmanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7853	Dear chairman, vice-president, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. 11 Allow me, on behalf of the Club, to state my position on today's vote for the BiH institutions' proposal for the 2020 budget. We have just completed a meeting of the SDA Members' Club to discuss the amendment proposed by representatives and clubs Our Party, the Independent Block, the MPs of the Democratic Front Club, the SDS and the PDP Club, and the MP jasmin Emrić. It is our assessment that one significant number of proposed amendments is acceptable and that we are considering this Budget proposal in December 2019, if we had the opportunity to adopt it in time and when we are not limited to other deadlines, we would support such amendments. Since we are already in the second half of 2020, and we are all aware of the importance here of adopting the budget and how directly it has impact on all segments of society in the whole of BiH, especially if we have at the level of holding the upcoming municipal elections, November 15th and that today's failure to adopt the BiH institutions' proposal for 2020 would call into question the possibility of holding these municipal elections, and we know that, as a Party of Democratic Action, we were in a certain way and criticised and attacked, that certain moves wish not to adopt the budget for 2020, in order not to hold municipal elections, on this side I am presenting our following conclusions: 1. The Party of Democratic Action MPs' club will not vote for any amendments. 2. The Party of Democratic Action MPs' club will support the draft budget, which came from the BiH presidency, and the biggest reason we have to support this Budget is to hold up the upcoming municipal elections on 15 November, which we really want to hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7854	Thank you. Mr. Halid Genjac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7855	I thank the chairman. So, the adoption of the budget is taking place in the context of the municipal elections, and that is a common known fact, because the Central Election Commission cannot conduct election preparations and carry out pre-election actions without insurance funds in the budget, so it is exclusively in the BiH budget and it is a matter of urgent adoption of the budget, the issue of maintaining municipal elections. It would be, of course, good if we adopted the budget by emergency procedure about five, six days ago, but it's still as good to adopt the budget as quickly as possible by adopting it here at the House of Representatives today and at the next session of the House of Peoples, which is planned in five days. Indeed, the matter of urgent adoption, i.e. the most urgent possible adoption of the budget, is the issue of ensuring assumptions for local elections. And in the assessment that the emergency procedure last time would not get enough support and the possibility of finding a compromise to adopt the budget today, I think it is far more productive, to hold elections more useful and generally for democratic processes more desirable to adopt the budget, first of all, as soon as possible. And of course that is why our Club Chairman, Mr. Osmanović, expressed the position of the SDA Club, because we must do everything to ensure the assumptions and what is most necessary for the democratic processes in BiH to be maintained uninterrupted and to preserve the integrity of the electoral process. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7856	Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7857	Thank you, Chairman. So, Mr. Genjac, you didn't say in the last session that the budget should be adopted urgently, I quote you again – ultimately the statement on the emergency procedure and the adoption of the budget is a statement on whether we are to hold municipal elections or not. So, emergency procedures, you said it. Then I quote you again – so I suggest we vote, first of all, on the emergency procedure for which my club will be. And then you weren't, so in the morning you said one thing, explicitly, you voted differently this afternoon. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7858	Miss Sanja Vulić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7859	Thank you, Chairman. So I must point out that I am extremely glad that today we are going to adopt the budget, primarily in order to hold the local elections, which we all need and which are primarily needed by the citizens of this country. I am very pleased with some colleagues here who have consistently pointed out that, as they call us, the ruling coalition does not want to adopt the budget, how, because we are afraid of the election result and I am extremely happy that today we will adopt the budget and what the elections will be held and that everyone will have the opportunity to see who and how it stands in their election units. And when it comes to this budget reserve, I have no doubt that it will be spent properly and in the way that it is defined and foreseen by the budget, given how many years Mr. Bevanda has been on the political scene and how long he has been doing this duty, I am sure that this money will be spent in a way that is appropriate, and not for other purposes, as his colleague pointed out. And what I want to say is, in all major and serious countries, important and important decisions are made by political leaders and party leaders. We're a country that can boast a little bit, but here's the privilege of having three leaders, so we can boast about it. I want to point out that Milorad Dodik is absolutely no one's fault that the colleagues who are still found in some political parties, and even less guilty that these same, these same colleagues are not destined to be leaders. In line with the promise I made in January, every time this Parliament is mentioned in any negative context by the SNSD leader, Republika Srpska President Cvijanović and all people representing Republika Srpska are sure to report and react. So much and thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7860	Wrong quote, Mr. Zukan Helez. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7861	No, it's not. It's not just about my colleague Vulić. Suddenly a mouthful of choices, until a few days ago, you're all public, you're afraid, you won't, you're all doing this for the election. No Niko's going to say that your bosses have been with the ambassadors for the last few days, by some, uh, in the other pictures, here's how sad their faces are, and the ambassador raised his finger, and this one has to let you know that you're "yes", and you know that the election isn't going to be the best situation, and you have to, and this isn't your will. Thank you for all the... the entire diplomatic crust, thank you to all the ambassadors who tried to have some coffee with your leaders and make it right. Thank them again on my behalf and on behalf of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7862	It's a quack quote, Miss Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7863	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I don't know, uh, which media colleagues he's been listening to and who he's afraid of, but what I sure know is that since the previous 2016 Local Elections ended, we've been saying all along that the SNSD is ready for a new victory tomorrow and for new elections. I don't know who's afraid, we're not afraid, we don't have anything to be afraid of, and here's the thing about my work you can and how, uh, you've had representatives in the local parliament so far, and how to deal with yourself, because I'm not sure after this election on 15 November that the SDP will have its representatives in the local parliament. Not because they're bothering me, away from that, we've had fine cooperation all these years ago, but by doing so, while you're dealing with SNSD and all of us who are in the coalition, yours, your rating, here in particular in my city falls, which I'm kind of glad to do, because whoever else is digging into it alone, long ago said.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7864	Thank you. Mr. Helez, correcting the wrong quote, another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7865	It's the second time, I won't do it anymore, and in particular, Sanja's boss was kind enough to watch when he sat down a lot lower than him, this gentleman, but behind him is a great, powerful state, as he laid his head down so robust, he took his back and ended all his heart. So it just has to.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7866	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7867	Thank you. Mrs Vulić reported for the third correction to the wrong allegations, it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7868	Please slowly, no, I'm giving the word here, right? Correction of the wrong quote Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7869	Thank you, Chairman. I answered the discussion first, then I had one correction to the wrong quote, and this is the second amendment, I learned the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your word. When it comes to rhetoric here, the chairman, I have to ask to be taken care of, I don't know whose leader and what kind and who, you know the folk who says - beauty is in the eye of the observer. You, Mr. Helez, everything that applies to SNSD isn't nice except there's color, because you have a similar color. I would ask you not to talk about the heart and not to talk about any inter-human relations and so on, given that I've walked a lot of municipalities and cities, that I know our constituencies well, so I'll tell you that I've also been to Kupres, you know that there are a lot of returnees there and I'll tell you why you've been antipathic since I started out in this House. You were Mr. Helez when you were a minister along with your security detail at a coffee shop in Kupres and there was a dispute with a Srbin returnee and your gorillas brutally beat him. Of course, the police and that canton were on your side, for God's sake you were a minister, coming from the Bosniak people and all that. I respect your commitment and where you are, but don't you talk about honesty.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7870	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7871	When it comes to anyone else, take care of yourself first.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7872	Mr. Dragan Mektić, guilty of allegation. Please stick to the agenda, I interrupted Miss Vulić for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7873	Oh, come on, Chairman, I beg you, put this back into some normal atmosphere, this debate and this discussion and give it some way to break this farce here and this story right here, this demagogue about, oh, like we're seriously discussing here...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7874	It was returned to the agenda, Mr. Mektić, returned.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7875	Well, that's it, now I'm talking about it, that's exactly what I'm talking about. Put it back in the living room. This has nothing to do with what's going on with each other. You know, here's just one example, that just 10 days ago 15 SNSD didn't support the budget, here after 10 days nothing changed in the budget and the budget is supported. Here is the settlement, promotion of various private, personal and other interests through the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7876	You're not in the agenda now, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7877	Who's interested in this Budget seriously here? No one cares about the budget. Budget only served here to settle some personal interests. Here he was appointed, thank Bog he was appointed, the director of the SIPA and the directors still there and it was the only condition, so imagine you with the budget and with some other appointments conditioned the local elections. So I ask you, the chairman, give you, and also your fellow messengers, let us break these, this farce.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7878	Okay, but I'm gonna interrupt you, too, 'cause you're not following the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7879	So I'm saying we break this farce
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7880	You're calling for the agenda, and you're not sticking to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7881	of the story and of the agenda as it is. It's all known that three people sat down, shared, uh, this dead end.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7882	You're out of time, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7883	Which is... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7884	You're out of time and you're out of microfo, if you hear it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zukan Helez, but please stick to this particular one, you say which member.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7885	My colleague hurt Article 7 I've never had security as a federal minister and that's one lie. And fellow Vulić, you have a chance to grow up to be a real politician, you have the beauty of Dušanka Majkić, you have the wisdom of Milorad Dodik and charm, you have the honor of Nikola Špirić, that I do not now list 16
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7886	Sir, Mr. Helez, the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, non-compliance with the established agenda, and you're right whatever you say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7887	I, here, only appeal to finally finish the debate on the Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-15-1.u7888	Thank you, ma'am. No more corrections to the wrong quote, Mr. Helez. No Niko's been reported. I'm closing the debate. We approach the vote of the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First we vote on the amendment of MP Jasmin Emrić, submitted at the plenary stage. We vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please vote, I'm running a session. The break was quite long, you all had the right to and could get into it... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
