ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1163	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the fourth emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 delegates, therefore – 4 from the Bosniak people, 3 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] It is justified, now we have a fellow Miletić, so 14, there is only Mr. Čović left, you know for what reasons. For the 4th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 (first reading) delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, issue: 01.02-2-1-1266/20 since 16.07.20120. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Does anyone appear for a word about changes and additions to the agenda? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. I'm saying, so I'm putting the agenda on, I'm saying that we've adopted the agenda with only one point. Moving to the only item on the agenda, point one, Ad. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 (first reading), delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, issue: 01.02-2-1-1266/20 since 16.07.20120 This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate, a small note, about the need for adoption and the principles on which the Law is based. You have received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission, I hope you have obtained it in writing, right now and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Finance and Budget Committee has accepted the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Commission found that the bill was in line with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. The House of Representatives at the 9th Emergency 2nd session, held on 15 July 2020, adopted the Bill on the Budget of BiH and BiH's international commitments for 2020 in a second reading with one amendment and submitted it to the House of Nations for further consideration. I now, according to the Rules of Procedure, give the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mrs Dušanka Majkić, if necessary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1165	... to say that I am pleased that the Joint Finance Commission and the Budget Committee of the House of Nations unanimously supported the principles of this Law. [[no microphone turned on]] I should also say a few words that are related to principles themselves. Why do I think they have the grounds to be accepted and that there is practically no one, should not refuse them. First, Parliament is not, or the House of Peoples is not prevented from acting amendmentically, as is the case everywhere in the world when discussing this most important document, that parliamentarians declare on it, or change certain items, if they think they are not adequately resolved. So we're allowed in the same day to be satisfied with the whole procedure. Secondly, the second principle, that only the delay in budgeting, we entered the second half of the year, requires us to be serious and responsible to bring the document forward as soon as possible. Thirdly, the adoption of the budget creates a presumption of the end, i.e. the organisation and implementation of the elections this year. That is why you should certainly keep in mind when talking about the budget. What I particularly stress is that this is the second draft budget, because we know what happened, that the first proposal that was made by the Ministry of Finance, that it had to be afterwards
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1166	Excuse me, please just give the Commission Report, if there is a need for discussion, please sign up, just the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1167	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1168	Only the Commission report
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1169	Well, I'm just talking about the Commission's report, and I'm talking about principles, I'm talking about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1170	Okay. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1171	So it's adapted to a new situation. What does that mean? In connection with the pandemic situation, this means the formation and the fund that enables certain entities to be helped by the pandemic situation. So there are certain assets worth more than 40 million to overcome this problem. And finally, I believe this law will be passed, I can't even think about what would happen if it wasn't passed. That's why I call on delegates in the House of Peoples to treat this document that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1172	I thank my colleague, Majkić. So, I'm calling on the Proposer if there's any need. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A colleague called Bećirović for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1173	Mr. Chairman, when it comes to the budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2020, I would like to point, above all, to three elements, to the procedure, to the content of the proposed Law and to the political context. Let's start with the procedure. The procedure is based on every democracy, we must say to people in BiH that BiH's holders and proposals for the 2020 budget have violated all laws that regulate the BiH budget adoption issue. We in the House of Peoples should honestly conclude that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been violated. He orders that we receive from the House of Representatives no later than 15 November, in this case, so by 15 November 2019, we should have had the BiH institutions' budget here on the agenda, almost nine months late. I think it's fair here from the motionary at the session to take both us and bh. The public says exactly – Why is it so late, what are the reasons, who are responsible for violating all these legal and business procedures? That response deserves the public in BiH. When it comes to the content of the Budget, people in BiH need to know what this budget is – is it the development budget? It's not. Is it social? It's not. Is it Euro-Atlantic? It's not. Is this budget an adequate response to the security challenges facing BiH? The answer is no. Is this a serious response to health trials and challenges, especially in light of the coronary crisis? The answer is again – no. That's why I want to point out the very serious shortcomings and weaknesses in the proposed budget. This budget is not an adequate support for strengthening human rights in BiH, which is very important for our country. That this is also a testimony to the fact that the budget planned for the Ombudsman's Institution in BiH was reduced by 114,000 KM in 2020 compared to 2019. Budget is not adequate support to Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, it is the heart of the Dayton Peace Agreement. As you can see in the proposed proposal, funds for the Return Fund have been reduced by 16000,00 KM. I want to say publicly that I think it's a bad message and that it shouldn't have been done. The budget is neither support nor strengthening the foreign policy of the BiH state, we have a reduction compared to 2019 in this 2020 budget of over 4 million converting marks, namely 4,065.00 KM. My opinion is that in BiH's foreign policy, we need to make a serious turn in relation to the current situation. Key cities, key 4 destinations for BiH are Washington, Brussels, London, Berlin, Paris, and we are not there enough as Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reduction of the budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in such a large amount is, in my court, a very bad message, instead of thinking about opening up some new diplomatic representations, such as the need to open a diplomatic representation in Tirana as soon as possible, so in Albania, there is a serious reduction here. I don't think this proposal for a budget is either supporting or strengthening security, which is also the fact that the funds for the Ministry of Security have been reduced by 707.000,00 KM this year. I don't know if there's any state in Southeast Europe that, during this migrant crisis, has been reducing resources for a security portfolio like this, if anyone has it. What is particularly important is that this budget is not supporting the Euro-Atlantic path of BiH in the way it should be, especially when it comes to our path to full NATO membership. The amount of funds for the BiH Ministry of Defence in 2020 has been reduced by 1.546.000,00 KM. I'll say that this move and this solution in Budget has the elements of an anti-Dayton move. Why? Because Annex 1B of the Dayton Peace Agreement clearly prescribes and foresees balances at the level of defence forces in the region. Now what's going on? Here, take neighbouring Serbia, Serbia seriously violated the balance foreseen by Annex 1B of the Dayton Peace Agreement, Serbia only increased the defence budget from 704 to $906 million in last 2019 alone. So an increase of almost 1/3. Serbia is at the top of European countries when it comes to budget growth in this segment of defence, i.e. military and arms. In 2020, Serbia's budget was allocated for equipment and weapons of 143m US dollars. For a remont of weapons and military equipment, $91 million U.S. dollars. Neighbouring Serbia buys combat helicopters, planes, tanks, and these T-72s from Russia...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1174	I'm asking you on the agenda to hold on, I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1175	Don't chair anything to beg me, I'm talking about the budget, I'm making a comparison.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1176	I'm asking you to talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1177	When someone mentions Serbia, you get all the hard lights on.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1178	I'm talking about her, but
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1179	Your country is BiH, you guard BiH, you respect others... you interrupt.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1180	I'm asking you without a lesson, I'm running a session, stick to the agenda. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1181	Now it's a question – How does the BiH state react to this fact? To such a drastic increase in the military budget, for equipment, for weapons in Serbia, we here reduce the funds foreseen for the defence ministry. I think it's a terrible bad message, people need to know in BiH, it's not only irresponsible, it's also very dangerous. I'm publicly asking a question -- a choir that, you think, the states of Serbia so arm themselves in their neighborhood? Well, the answer is because of that state that contrary to all international law standards at the end of last year was placed in the Strategy for Defence and National Security. We in BiH need to know, we have to point these things out and warn the public, it doesn't work that way anymore. I said in the end that I would also talk about the political context, it is such that we have one extremely unstable and political and economic situation, the coronary crisis has paralyzed both Europe and the region and BiH. The migrant crisis threatens to fully escalate, separatist, anti-state elements continue to threaten the BiH state, even questioning one of the fundamental democratic rights, which is the right to free and democratic elections, I mean local elections in BiH. In such a one, mildly put, unfavorable environment, I think everyone should behave responsibly and maturely. In the context of this discussion, I would like to say that, by any chance, there has been a situation in the House of Representatives, that the adoption of the budget depends on SDP MPs, too, I believe that SDP MPs would vote in favour of the budget. As for me personally in the House of Peoples, I will be an opposition to everything that is against the interests of the state and citizens, but never an opposition to the state of BiH and state interests. Bosnia and Herzegovina currently needs some kind of stabilisation of overall political and other opportunities. Finally, from this Budget, which we are talking about today, only one budget is worse, it is the unadopted BiH budget. And I still have to say, I absolutely support my colleague Emrić's amendment from the House of Representatives. And before that session of the House of Representatives, I made a formal proposal concerning the completion of the state border service in order to be able to deal with the migrant crisis, and in this sense I believe that this proposal from the House of Representatives is complementary to what I have proposed before that session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1182	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1183	If it hadn't just been for a meeting of the Finance Commission and the budget that adopted the votes of all the members of the Commission and the principles of this Law, I would have heard Mr Bećirović's views, I would have actually wondered what it was about, you have unanimously adopted principles, then you have this salva. What he said, you cannot believe, and that man might, after all that he said and resented, vote “for. ” So he sets up new settings, using the opportunity again, as well as at every session, to mention Serbia and to mention Srbin,...it is an inevitable topic for him, because this way he says it and why he says it, he knows that he can only raise a lot more crowds and riots here than he will contribute to fixing the situation and solve what we came here for. He, as an opposition MP, has the right to say what he thinks, but I will remind him that in this Parliamentary Assembly and in both of its homes, only what has been accepted by all three peoples and by both entities can pass. Everything 6 is a fruit and an idea of the individual desires of Denis Bećirović, his unsuccessful crowd of initiatives, to which no one holds but him, it will remain where it has remained so far. So I call on you to finish this job the way it was adopted on the Commission for Finance and Budget and to determine the principles of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1184	I thank my colleague, Majkić. I'd ask delegates if there's no need for any closer replicas, so just to announce the College plan, the plan is to work out that we're going to absorb the first reading, so we can give, agree on the amendment phase, we're going to need a lot of time. So, if it's possible to avoid it, and if it's not me, I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure as... so just one little suggestion. So, correcting the wrong quote, counterpart Bećirović. We should work till one, take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1185	Mrs. Majkić's best discussion is when she doesn't have a discussion, otherwise when she's having a discussion then either she's saying the wrong thing or she's making it up, like she just did. That's why I have a very reasoned need to tell her that I voted on the Commission the way I'm going to vote on the House. I told the Commission, which lasted five minutes, that I don't have time for broad exposure and that I will have it here at the House of Representatives(?) And that I said that I would make arguments that I think should be said here in the House of Peoples. You didn't look back on any of it, you made it up that I mentioned Srbin, and I didn't mention it, take a stenogram, I did mention to Serbia, logically I mentioned to see what happened to aneks 1B. Gospođo Majkić, this country in the 1990s did not attack Sweden, nor Finland, but Serbia, that Serbia is armed to the teeth, and you want to reduce BiH's defence budget here as well. I'll tell you that, it doesn't work that way. I'll Rećić we should fight it. I will Upozorić and expect the next BiH budget to be much better than this one is now. When it comes to a bunch of initiatives, which you mentioned, take a list and see what went past of you from what you suggested or from anyone here, so here 90% of things are down, regardless of whether you suggested someone from the opposition or position, so it's totally meaningless to you. So, let me repeat, your best discussion is when you're not discussing anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1186	If I may once again ask that, if there is a possibility, avoid discussions that are not in a relationship and avoid replication that are not closely related to principles. My kolegica Majkić, again, is correcting the wrong quote. hajati's go to the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1187	So, I've been forced every session to listen to the pointless suggestions that you make, but I hereby declare that no more remarks on your presentations, because they are completely irrelevant from the point of view of adopting any decision and you have nothing to do with it, so you can influence this Budget any way you choose, but that I will never mind again, are they not discussions that are worthy of respect at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1188	I thank my colleague, Majkić. I ask that delegates treat each other in proper form, and Asim Sarajlić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, to return to the agenda and to the single item of the agenda, and this is the Bill on the Budget of BiH and the international obligations of BiH for 2020, first reading, delivered from the House of Representatives of Parliament since 16/07, so I remind us all of our Rules of Procedure, its Article 103, which in its position (1) says – The General Discussion in the House begins with the first reading, and this is what we listen to today and what we should listen to today, as regards the principles on which the bill is based, we have here also the Commission's position, which preceded this session, which has unanimously established the principles, the content of the laws and the necessity of law making in the opinion of the Constitutional and competent commission from the first phase, so we have both opinions, the debate in the first reading ends with the adoption or the rejection of the bill. The next member I'd like to quote here is Article 118. – The bill is considered to be passed when both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes adopt it in the same text. And now I move to the point, Mr. Chairman, without these deadlines, as stated by the Rules of Procedure, which Mr. Bećirović, in Article 127 (1) and (2), so – After the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has received a bill containing the BiH institutions' budget for next year, in this case it is the current year, which sent the BiH Presidency in accordance with the law and in the time-limits prescribed by the House of Representatives. Item (2) – After adoption, the House of Representatives shall submit a draft law with a budget no later than 15 November of the current year. cijeniti all three of these members, which I have quoted, and esteeming the act of the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to return to this item of the agenda, by paying attention to the already known fact and to the mentioned member of the Rules of Procedure, which I quoted as saying that the House of Representatives adopted the Budget with the amendment Mr Radmanović contributed to the budget. Just like we're acting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1190	I thank my colleague, Sarajlić, for a proper debate. The word is Zlatko Miletić, please. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1191	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If I understand you correctly we're reporting for a discussion to comment on the principles, do I understand?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1192	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1193	Here in this first part, I will take the opportunity to present a few facts, really try to be brief and not repeat myself, with just one principle mentioned by the President of the Commission, I cannot and will not agree, and this is about helping our health care system and if you want an economic system in our country. I'm just going to go back and underline two, three things that I think are very important, so I'm saying again, and I agree with the Commission's view that the procedure has been going on too long, so it's been, in my opinion, completely unnecessary for seven months. I see Minister Bevanda is present here, thank you for his patience and he is one of the ministers who attends the meeting of each home neatly and what I say does not refer to him personally, but I must say that I expected more from members of the Bureau. As far as I can remember, they returned the first bill in 26.06 and I, right to tell you, expected it to be returned precisely for the reason in which BiH is currently located, and these are the problems we have in the health system and that we have in terms of survival of the economy. I think the three of them, what they did, that it's about cosmetic changes, I think it's especially this help, which is directed or the funds that relate to the pandemic of 40 million, I think it sucks. This if you take the total budget, if I did a good calculation, is about 4.1%) of the total amount of money available to the institutions and what I expected from the three of them was that the budget of all institutions, all ministries cut by at least 20% to get about 180 million KM of free money, and to make that money available to entities, municipalities or whoever you want, simply, and you see the situation of the pandemic going to the retail that our health system is about to collapse. And I think if we don't react quickly, in addition to being hit by all these problems about this pandemic, I think the economy is on its knees, and if we don't wake up, I don't think we're going to be able to prevent them from getting any further growth and the consequences that we're going to have or that's going to happen then, and when we have the will, I don't think we're going to be able to stop them. I'm sorry I didn't answer, it has to do with these principles, when it was a point around the Central Bank, I wanted to ask Mr. Governor, since I see there's a lot of money, especially when it comes to the bank's capital – why can't entities and Brcko District get some of that money to help people prevent exactly this disaster that's coming to us? But here I think it's a good opportunity and what, I'm glad there are no journalists so I can express myself so, to take this Syntagma from the zvijezda of the Grando – it's never too late, maybe this is the opportunity to think about everything by the end of this calendar year and really Minister Bevanda to ask that budget at least for the coming year to come up with completely different basics and different principles. And just two more, three more things, and I'm going to show you, so I don't take your time, every contact that's been inserted here is an observation, so if I read all of this stuff that I have noticed, it has these twenty contacts, it wouldn't end up here in two days, but I'm going to do two, three dipressions. First, I don't understand that seven million institutions spend on the phone. Besides, as far as I could see, at the expenses of 12 million. I'm really interested in who 9 in this situation and how they're going to spend that 12 million, and I really don't understand where people in this situation are who they are, where we can't hang out with each other, now that someone's planning this kind of funding, it's really nebulose. Not to mention the means of representation, the means of cars. In three, four, if I'm not mistaken, the institutions are buying cars in a million-dollar amount again, which is a degutant when citizens find out about how we behave, in principle, I think there's going to be a lot of disdain and I don't think we should or should, and that we shouldn't do it that way. What I'm trying to say is that I'm doing two special dyspressions. If we're not able to worry, and I see one of our famous politicians yesterday said that roughly state institutions are not actually helping entities, and as we don't need BiH institutions at all, they're not helping us for this very reason, that we've managed to isolate 180 million from the budget, that we've managed to remove some of the money from the Central Bank, that we've succeeded, that one of you, including the last Council of Ministers, is the current Council of Ministers' meeting, you who are missing know Rus, Turčin, Amerikanac, I don't know who you all know, when you take that public debt to us is 800 million, so we asked someone to give this misery 200 million people to wait for some kind of credit, so we'll pay it back in the next five years. No Niko's ever moved a finger. What do I mean? So, in principle, we could, by my free judgment, maybe I'm wrong, I'm not an expert in finance, certainly 400 or 500 million to help the BiH economy and help health care. But what my colleague Bećirović says, I can't understand, here are three of our members of the presidency, among other things, signed by this ANP programme, call that document whatever you want, and give the Ministry of Defence three million and 800 to the soldiers, what we have voted in the law to improve their status, which, of course, we need to do, and take off their fuel, schooling, I don't know, some other items, that I don't list here 3 million and 800, I think it's self-dignant. And with that I want to finish, I started with that thought, but here I am lost a little, if we're not already able to take care of the citizens of this country, I'm speaking in general, and we're not able to help entities, cantons and Brcko District, let's help our employees. I'm really ashamed that one worker, and you've all got a letter from three unions about the status of our civil servants and tenants, that one cleaning lady has a salary of 460 marks, that's half of our cobwebs. Yeah, the guys who carry us drinks here are paid between 500 and 600, so people who work on insurance are paid 700 marks. The ratio of that 1:10 is truly catastrophic and I have not heard that such a ratio is in any country of Europe or in any one. That we don't have that kind of empathy, even if that misery that works in this accident, that we help them that way, that I don't go back to the situation in the third month, as much as it means being angry or not, the only person I've seen here every day is the secretary, the only person besides those officers who've come here every day, it's called Ceca, Ivana, or these guys who work on insurance and that we pay for half of our cobwebs, and I think it's a disaster. And I will ask or ask if we come to the adoption or to propose amendments and conclusions, so if we don't at least have these two questions to solve, and here's my colleague, Bećirović, since I have a series of these remarks, so that it doesn't turn out to be degutant, who is this story, we would talk all day about how the budget is wrong, the only reason I'm going to vote for him is actually to conduct elections in BiH, and I think they're worth all of this money that we're talking about, that we simply give our citizens the democratic right to tell us what they think of our political parties or every single one of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1194	I thank my colleague Miletić. Word has a colleague Bosić Mladen. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1195	Thank you, Chairman. Well, now I'm surprised, I guess the only thing I'm not going to vote for is Budget, in this assembly, I see that everyone is going to vote for him, so, at least I'm going to say something about the principles that you're all calling for. First of all, it's a bad message to the public and to the people the way this budget was adopted and the reasons why it wasn't adopted, now here's the seventh month of this year. In practice, everyone knows that the reasons for not adopting the budget were not the inability to agree on how to spend the budget and how to make, to which item the amount of money to give, but the reasons for not adopting the budget were the differences over who will put who in one of the functions and that is the principle that points to what people here, who deal with politics, are the priority. Whether it is a priority to have the main document that has the power, the budget is the main document that, any government executive should propose, and legislative to adopt or be more important personal particular interest in how to settle its party structure or how to take up positions for future political conflicts with others. And it's clear to everyone that this time it's been naked, even though it exists and it's been there before, and now it's so brutally shown to the citizens, that I think all those who are dealing with politics, whose ratings, including me, are going to have an even lower rating after this situation that's been going on around the budget. The second principle, nothing easier should be than adopting BiH's budget. Because it's pretty much known what the authorities' intelligence is and what the budget should be spent on, it's known how much the entity's government and budget is in power, how much of it in the municipality's jurisdiction and it doesn't change, it hasn't changed since the year-to-year budget framework, it seems to me it was 960 million. You cannot spend BiH's budget on something that is not the authority of the BiH state under its constitution, and it has always been a tendency to increase the budget and that the competencies that are somehow brought to BiH's jurisdiction and that is the debate that is being held within BiH, how much, from Dejton itself to today, what needs to be changed, one advocates this, others are pushing for it. From Republika Srpska so far, the position has always been that this framework that was then reached, it seems to me 960 million that there was an agreement then, quite enough to finance everything, to finance everything that was intended to operate from BiH-level institutions. For the first time, the budget has been increased and representatives of BiH authorities agree to step down from the principle and increase the budget under cover of assistance to entities and the population due to the coronary virus. And how do you intend to help from the level of BiH population around the crown when healthcare is exclusively in the jurisdiction of entities and entity budgets are in charge of financing the segment? When social policy is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the entity, when the economy is in the jurisdiction of the entity, regardless of how many do not like it, they would like to change it, but that is the case. What are you going to spend that money on, how much is 40 million for? To transfer them to the entities so they can distribute them to whom they think. And that money that's been extended to the budget has been taken directly from the entity because the first thing it's worth is how much more money you take for the budget so much it's going to have less money than VAT on entities. And I'm just pointing out that this time, the principle that has been violated from Republika Srpska, in some way, by the consensus of representatives from Republika Srpska, has been detained so far. This budget, like all previous budgets, is approximately as defined in the first budget framework agreement, how much for which sectors are spent, as much as for defence as for which segment. All subsequent budgets and changes in budgets were cosmetics to show who had a greater impact on the new Council of Ministers' meeting, whether the current defence minister's influence was greater than the previous or any of the ministers in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the budget debate should not be a debt, it has been completed many times and spent through discussions on previous budgets. And when I listen, since here, 11 unfortunately, for a number of years I've been taking part in this, and when I listen to the debates they're identical, I feel like if I take the record now of the adoption of the budget from three or four years ago, I'm going to find the same sentences and now I'm going to find other people who are in opposition, and those who are now in power are just saying what those who are in opposition are saying right now. So we're going around in circles, the budget is defined, here is the question whether there's enough political will between those who are in the coalition and formed the Council of Ministers, whether or not to adopt the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-21-0.u1196	I thank my colleague Bosić. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. So, we are voting on the draft law on the budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2020 in the first reading. So there are 14 delegates present - for 13, against no one, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – for 9, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstention 1. I agree that we have a general and entity majority and that the draft law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2020 was adopted in the first reading. On the basis of Article 127(3) and Article 175, I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House: To open the amendment phase for the Bill on Budgets of BiH institutions and international commitments for the year 2020, and to submit its report on the Bill of Law to the House of Nations after the end of the amendment phase. Prepare to vote. [[no microphone turned on]] I find that the conclusion has been adopted. I'm closing the fourth emergency session. I would like to inform you that the 5th emergency session will be held at 3:00 p.m., and I ask you to attend her and the committee responsible to file a report. Thank you very much. Session completed at 12:53 p.m.
