ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7934	I ask the MPs to take their seats, we need to start working, of course it applies to both guests and professional staff. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which begins with an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, I welcome you and inform you that the absence was justified by MPs Dragan Mektić and Mirsad Kukić, and the delay was announced by Nermin Nikšić and Saša Magazinović. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] From Mrs Ankica Gudeljević's cabin, Minister, we have been informed earlier that she will not be able to attend. There are 35 MPs in total, which means we have a quorum for both work and decision-making. As you have already received in the invitation, that is, how we have informed you in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, will allow MPs to ask questions in oral form before the debate on the agenda. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Nenad Nešić Minister of Security, Šemsudin Mehmedović, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers, Edita Đapo Minister of Justice BiH, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Damir Arnaut, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, jasmin Emrić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Branislav Borenović, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Nenad Stevandić, the minister of civil affairs who is not there, and we will see when it comes to the agenda how we will deal with the issue. These announcements are in line with, as I have already said, a member of the Rules of Procedure, being delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided as well as in earlier periods. It's time to start asking questions. The People's Messenger Nenad Nešić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7935	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected ministers. Bosnia and Herzegovina faces an increased inflow of migrants and anything that monitors the migrant crisis, humanitarian disaster and worsening security. It is estimated that there are currently about 8,000 migrants in the country, with a large number of whom it is impossible to identify because their country of origin refuses to co-operate, such as Pakistan. 2 What are the concrete measures that you are going to take and you are going to take to stop this problem from spreading and starting to stop?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7936	The Secretary of Security's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7937	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. As far as the situation of the migrant crisis is concerned, I will present the basic data that illustrate both the scope and content of the problem we are facing, and I will provide detailed written information. So, since the end of 2017, to this day BiH has been on a moving migrant route across the Western Balkans towards the Western European countries, in the first eight months of this year, some earlier trends in migrants' inflows have been reduced primarily due to the presence of the COVID-19 pandemic. So it's been reduced by approximately 39% since it registered 11.292, and during the same period last year, 18.399 migrants were registered. Most migrants come from Afghanistan this year, about 27%, and then Pakistan goes with about 23% of the participation in the total number of migrants moving across Bosnia and Herzegovina, then Bangladesh goes with 19%, Morocco with 10%, Iraq with 4.5, and then Iran and Tunisia and Algeria, Egypt and other Middle East and Central Asia countries. To understand their status of these 11-292, registered by the Foreign Affairs Service during this year, 10,738 expressed their intention to apply for asylum. By expressing this intention, migrants get what's called the so-called "migration." the registration card and, in relation to many provisions of international law, the possibility and the right to enjoy many elements of international protection or the rights of a set of international human rights and freedoms. But out of these nearly 11,000, only 185 have actually filed a request. I am saying this for a reason, this is an important fact that migrants practically manipulate this asylum application institute, and later actually do not submit that request, and I received information from the Asylum Service that during last year, in the case of a family, this process was closed and when they were invited to hold the last conversation before the asylum was issued, they contacted them and told them that they had already been in Sweden for three months. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a country that, according to all that we could see in the last three years, is interesting as a final destination, or a final destination for migrants fluctuating in this space. We have, therefore, this phenomenon of abuse of the asylum system, we have the fact that the eastern border towards Serbia-Montenegro is ugly, but this is also the case with other borders on this route. However, efforts have been made to help the Border Police, which is not sufficiently capacitated, to strengthen the quality and effective control of the eastern border, so that during the current period, the Ministry of Interior with 80 members has assisted the Border Police in the work, the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities with some 40 and the SIPA with 10 members, with their presence of these agencies being strengthened and the use of certain technical means, thereby increasing the quality and content of the border control effect. All this reinforcement of measures gives some results, so in the past few weeks we have one visible trend in the decline of the number of migrants that are missing through the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the east and staying in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Migrants staying in Bosnia and Herzegovina are located at the Immigrant Centre in eastern Sarajevo, the Azilant Centre in Delijas, which is the capacity of the Ministry of Security. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has the Refugee-Accepting Centre Salakovac and the Readmission Centre in Mostar and we have temporary reception centres in Sarajevo are 3 to Ušivak and Blažuj, in the space of Unsko-San canton are Sedra, Bira, Mira and Boraqi and opened during the pandemic crisis tent camp Lipa. Out of the total number of these migrants currently in place and on 10 September this year, the Foreign Office registered a total of 6,101 migrants, of those 6,101 migrants 5,930 are located in temporary reception centres. In the framework of the Ministry of Security, there is a coordination body on the issue of migration which acts as operational headquarters and with all law enforcement agencies, i.e. police forces at different levels, coordinats activities in the control of the entry, movement and stay of migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, achieves co-operation with a large number of state bodies, NGOs and, in particular, with international organisations that are very active and multi-tasking organisational, financial, professional in the treatment of different categories of migrants that we have in this area. The update of the Action Plan and measures to effectively manage the migrant crisis, and key challenges which are related to the continued successful management of the movement and stay of migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are related to strengthening the institutions of the state and to the equal distribution of the migrant challenge in different state institutions, different parts of the country in terms of territory and engagement in addressing this important issue. The next focus is on the more quality closure of the Eastern border and the reduction of the further inflow of migrants, which requires strengthening of the personnel and material and technical capacity of the Border Police and, in that sense, the Council of Ministers decided at its pertition session to accommodate 300 members, of which 250 border police officers and 50 younger inspectors, I hope that this trend will continue and will give the necessary effects in terms of control of the Eastern border, as well as the announced assistance in technical and material resources, quality drones, spatial, thermal and other surveillance devices that we expect from the European Union. In a similar way, all other law enforcement agencies that participate in the control and entry and movement and residence of migrants should be strengthened in a similar manner, so that a system of identifying migrants remains a very problematic issue, because in the region we are practically the only one who has biometric identification, which is here and finished because less than 1% of migrants entering the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina has any kind of identification document from their country of origin. Eventually, some of them have some kind of identification from the country of the previous stay, but as a rule they reject and do not carry with them that kind of document. It is necessary to raise further the quality of the asylum institute in order to avoid further abuses. The judicial system should regulate the processing of migrants because we have a trend in the participation of migrants in a variety of criminal offences. We expect to improve co-operation with all countries to so-called. The Western Balkan route, bilateral co-operation with neighbours, that we will step up co-operation with the institutions of the European Union dealing with this issue and we are also on track to realise some of the challenges of reading with countries of origin and the first case is that some three weeks ago, the government of Pakistan has expressed its intention to sign a readmission agreement. I'll remind you, these agreements are started, or sent to the countries from which migrants come, ten years ago, maybe a year or so before, most of them don't want to sign these contracts because they don't respond, but here we now have a positive sign from Pakistan, which has expressed its intention to sign this contract. I would in this answer so much, hopefully enough content, if there are any additional questions we can do in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7938	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. 4 The time is limited to answer according to our Rules of Procedure for two minutes, but since it is a matter which all the messengers of the people require and want to hear, we have let the minister speak wider. The comment is one minute. Mr. Nešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7939	I can say I'm not happy with the minister's answer, because I asked what concrete measures he would take. We have not heard here any concrete measure that will be taken, except that new 300 border police officers will be hired. And what are we doing? We hire all the time, and we don't solve it. What is my proposal is to establish close contact with the European Union, because the problem of migrants is primarily the problem of the European Union and it should be involved in resolving this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7940	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7941	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I welcome you. I have a parliamentary question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is about the following. Namely, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the case of Ališić and others, No. 60642/08 of 16.07.2014 which obliged the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia to, under the supervision of the Council of Europe Ministers' Committee of Savings who have old foreign currency savings in banks owned by those countries and who until mid-1992 had their branches on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory within a year ensure that their claims are paid under the same conditions under which they paid their citizens' savings. The verdict of Ališić and others has not been carried out, thousands of savings from the Ljubljanska Banka d.d. Ljubljana, Investment Banks of Belgrade and Yugoslav Investment Credit Banks of Belgrade, i.e. Slovenia and Serbia have refused to return their savings. Information from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs is sought why the Ališić verdict has not been carried out for thousands of savings from Bosnia and Herzegovina and a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers is sought in which the savings damages will be compensated, i.e. how is this verdict planned to be carried out?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7942	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7943	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, Members of Parliament, fellow ministers and guests. I want to start by saying that this answer really takes a little bit more time, but I am not going to spend this time used by Minister Cikotić, but in a few sentences to explain. This is a verdict against Slovenia and Serbia. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been very actively involved in this by forming its Expert Group. Serbia and Slovenia's obligations were to pay off 5 obligations to savings from Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. their branches that existed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to define the rules on how they would do so and how they would launch the verification process. In line with this, BiH has formed an Expert Group in which all the institutions in charge of paying off old foreign savings, and I will remind you that BiH has paid a huge amount of old foreign savings for BiH citizens who have had their savings in banks in BiH. The two countries have passed appropriate regulations, defined the verification and savings process so that they can be paid, and there within BiH institutions have had their duty to help citizens to verify their old foreign currency savings. After both countries had passed those regulations, the process of verification and payment of old foreign currency savings began. The Committee of Ministers estimated that both countries responded positively to Ališić's verdict and removed the verdict from the regime, a special monitoring regime. What appears to be a problem for our citizens who have old foreign savings is the situation that they could not verify the savings because they could not obtain proper documents within BiH institutions. According to the information we have, it is dominantly about savings from the Federation of BiH, because these citizens, in whole or in part, used these funds to, in the privatisation process, buy some business premises, apartments, buy apartments and so on, they were unable to verify and thus these countries could not, or these banks could not pay off their old foreign currency savings. The European Court of Human Rights has notified those who have failed to fulfil their rights to initiate a judicial dispute before they re-apply to the European Court of Human Rights. Which means that citizens, those who have failed to prove that they have and to verify their old savings will have to go through the legal process in those countries, this will be a complicated, difficult process for our citizens, probably long and eventually end up in the European Court of Human Rights again. There is an institute to provide free legal assistance in disputes against other countries, and in this sense we can react. The Council of Ministers cannot execute this verdict, this verdict is not against BiH, and there have been many rulings against BiH by individual or entity and all European Court of Human Rights rulings concerning and some rulings on the old foreign currency savings have been carried out at the moment. We are prepared to assist BiH citizens in this case, but BiH is not a defendant and cannot carry out financial obligations under these judgments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7944	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7945	I thank Mr. Chairman for his comprehensive response, and I would ask you to provide me with an answer in writing, because it is not true that BiH institutions have fully completed their task, because FYA Sarajevo and APIF Banja Luka as followers of the SDK of earlier Bosnia and Herzegovina do not allow, or provide people with information that they can prove in court that they have not, or have used their old foreign currency savings as valuable papers in the privatisation process. So I think these two institutions are obliged to deliver, they defend themselves by the Data Protection Act which is nonsensical, people want to launch a judicial dispute, but they can't or can't say you don't have any more old foreign savings, because you've already used it once. Therefore, I ask you to deliver me in writing. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7946	Thank you. Mrs. Edita Đapo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7947	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you, co-chairs, colleagues and colleagues, as well as representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests and all who follow this session. My question is addressed to the Minister of Justice and that is to say – Why has the BiH Ministry of Justice for a long period of time, for about a year, not registered the changes created by the Association of Associations and Foundations in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH? In fact, in October of last year, AMUS held a Assembly that appointed authorised persons to represent and new management bodies. This Assembly was documented with video footage and was led by an authorised notary, which is a civil servant, a public notary, or a public trust person, who made up and approved the record from this Assembly. According to my information, the Department of Justice has just been objecting to this Assembly found in this record. After that, AMUS was proposed to hold the Assembly again, and they did so in April and June this year, but given the situation with COVID-19 and the orders of crisis headquarters, electronic congregations were held. What I want to point out to this distinguished House is that the non-registration of certain changes in accordance with the Association and Foundations Act is causing enormous damage to the entire society, whether for a thousand members or over a thousand members of this Association, both for the economy and for the state that has received 6 million converting marks from the founding on the name of the tax. Namely, the situation in which we are today is that it is very difficult to pay the fees from which our artists and songwriters live, and on the other hand, AMUS has received several judicial rulings, which are now executed, against the hotelers, in the Hercegovina-Neretva and Sarajevo Canton where hotelers have to pay substantial amounts of over 20,000 principals and more than that interest, and of course they are ready, that is, to invite AMUS to the negotiations and AMUS is ready to come out to meet that these executive rulings are not paid at once, but succesively. Mođutim, it is therefore necessary to make a decision of the Assembly, and yet the Assembly cannot be organised since the register, i.e. the change of the data in this, in the Register of the Association, has not been made. So I'm asking the minister to explain to us why the AMUS isn't registered yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7948	Thank you. Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7949	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Members of the College, the Honorable Representatives, the Honorable Representatives, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. An association of composers of music creators or short for how we heard AMUS based in Sarajevo was entered in the Register of Associations since 12.09.2012 in accordance with the provisions of the 7 Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH. The BiH Intellectual Property Institution, which oversees the work of AMUS under the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, made a decision just over a year ago that suspended Amus's permission to carry out its activities. The BiH Justice Ministry has acted upon the request of AMUS to register changes in the Association Register since the end of last year by Decision 29.01.2020, which, in accordance with Article 34 (1) of the BiH Associations and Foundations Act, rejected the request. At the above-mentioned Justice Ministry Decision, AMUS rose up with a lawsuit in a administrative dispute at the BiH Court. AMUS submitted an application based on the same legal and factual basis for which the Ministry had already conducted the procedure for enrollment in the Register of Associations and for which it was decided by the Ministry's resolution of 29.01.2020 and rejected by the Ministry's conclusions. The Council of Ministers also rejected AMUS complaints as an unfounded and confirmed decision by the BiH Justice Ministry. In 1505, the justice ministry received a new AMUS request for the entry of changes, which also ended with the conclusion that the request was rejected. I also note that the Ministry of 22.05 informed the Council of Ministers on the course of the registration procedure in the Register of Associations for AMUS which we asked the Council of Ministers to give guidance in order to do the same in exceptional circumstances in a way that the Association Registers have been registered by the President, Vice-President and the Governing Body of AMUS. Therefore, it is evident that the ministry has acted on all requirements of AMUS for the registration of changes, but that AMUS did not remove interferences found during monitoring by the BiH Institute of Intellectual Property. Therefore, on the basis of the current Statute of the AMUS, it is clearly prescribed that the meetings of the Assembly, the quorum and the voting rules be convened, and that the AMUS should provide formal and legal conditions for the maintenance of the Assembly as the highest body and, on the basis of the so-called and held session of the Assembly, it is necessary to adopt the relevant decisions which constitute the basis for the registration of changes in the Register of Associations in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Association and Foundations Act, and what AMUS has not done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7950	Thank you. Mrs. Đapo, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7951	So here we see that even now the minister of justice is calling for the Institute to say that, according to the Statute of the non-electronic session, e-sessions are not possible, and the Statute of the AMUS is just saying that the sessions are defined by the Rules of Procedure. The Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH does not stipulate the ministry's competence to determine the validity of certain decisions, but only to make an entry, i.e. to change whether certain data is valid. I will ask the minister, since I am not satisfied with the answer that in writing within 15 days I get this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7952	Thank you. Next question Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7953	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome everyone present. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which refers to a parliamentary initiative adopted at the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 26.02.2020, and it is a parliamentary initiative tasked by the Council of Ministers to decide, no later than 90 days from the date of adoption of the initiative in the Parliamentary House, to check the diploma of all employees in state institutions in terms of the control of the validity of diplomas in accordance with legal regulations in the field of education. Since the initiative was adopted on 26.02. and I didn't even get an answer to the emergency we sent on 16.06.2020 means I'm asking the question – What was it done by this initiative, is it anything and if it is what it did?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7954	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7955	Thank you very much. Your initiative, as well as the initiative of every MP and delegate in the House of Peoples, is considering the Council of Ministers at its meetings and tasks certain ministries or agencies to prepare a statement on these initiatives. We have also done so with this initiative, and we have tasked the Ministry of Civil Affairs in co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Justice and possibly other competent institutions to analyse the parliamentary initiative and prepare the Council of Ministers to decide on the implementation of the parliamentary initiative in question. I am undermining this sentence and other possible institutions, because there have been several attempts at the Parliamentary Assembly to do, conditionally, collective checks on individual, collective checks on all diplomas, or all staff in institutions, and there have been a lot of misunderstandings with the agencies responsible for the protection of personal data and comments that the way in which it was tried to do so is not adequate and therefore we are trying to prepare a decision that would be acceptable for the realization of this single parliamentary initiative. The agency believes that such a way as it also meant collectively, again, under the alleged signs of collective verification of diplomas is much narrower than in this parliamentary initiative, they say – they believe that this, in this way, violates the human dignity of employees, because all employees are under suspicion. We believe that, I quote, we believe that by bringing into question all public documents in this way is also harmful to the public interest, because such a procedure violates legal certainty. We had in mind this opinion that we had during previous some of the requests for this check, we will consider it when we prepare an adequate decision, which we believe can be respected by your parliamentary initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7956	Thank you. A comment by the MP, Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7957	So I thank you for your answer. However, I would warn again that within at least 90 days we should have received an answer, and I personally think that, these opinions by the agency are not productive in the sense that someone is being violated by dignity, etc. Because whoever has a valid diploma won't have absolute dignity if his diploma is accepted, or checked, and in any case we should have received at least an answer within 90 days, so I'd be begging to receive this written answer, because I think nothing has been done in principle. Because somehow, uh, these opinions... I think we need to make sure that in our case when diplomas are involved in a massive phenomenon of getting diploma in an illegal way or even falsifying a diploma, so I think that even with opinions, giving opinions by the Personal Data Protection Agency should take that into account, and especially because they are public documents, so I really don't see any reason why diplomas don't check out. I mean, I'd put all three of them free to check on anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7958	Thank you. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7959	Thank you, Chairman. The question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and it is very specific – when will this Council of Ministers start proposing laws, delivering drafts to the Parliamentary Assembly? Namely, the current Council of Ministers meeting, which took office in December, headed by Mr Tegeltija, submitted a total of four draft laws to the parliamentary procedure. During the same period, MPs submitted 18 draft laws, MPs and delegates of 18 draft laws, and this is the Council of Ministers only four. Only when we take the technical mandate of the previous Council of Ministers, they submitted five drafts of the law in that technical mandate, and you delivered only four drafts of the law to the Parliamentary Assembly in the full term. So, this is truly a devastating statistic, and in these benches very often we can hear remarks when the opposition proposes laws to do so by the Council of Ministers, and this statistics shows that these remarks absolutely do not stand and cannot stand, because if we wait for the Council of Ministers, which currently delivers four laws a year, they, this Council of Ministers will not arrive, who already have 18 proposals, even until the end of their term of office. Therefore, a concrete question – When will the Council of Ministers finally begin to submit draft laws to parliamentary procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7960	Answer, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7961	Thank you very much for asking. The Council of Ministers adopted the Work Programme and defined its legislative activities, and I don't think Parliamentarians and Council of Ministers 10 should compete in who will propose more laws, because everyone, both of them, has the authority to propose these laws. The difference between these proposals and the proposals coming out of this Council of Ministers is that we are proposing those laws that will obtain verification in both houses of the BiH Parliament and that is why so many laws are currently in the process. We are not proposing, I am not putting on the agenda those laws that we do not have the support and that we know will not be supported in Parliament, because it is evident that this support does not exist. All the procedure when we want to talk about statistics is very easy to let into the legal procedure many laws that have been prepared, but there is no minimum consensus for their adoption. I hope that we will, it will be clear to all of us that this way of proposing laws that do not receive support in Parliament is not good and that we should go to Parliament with harmonised texts of the law. Of course, not stopping any story about the amendments to the Parliament and the amendment of the law, but if there are fundamental differences in the legal solution, then it really doesn't make sense that we are proposing those laws that we know will not be supported in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7962	Commentary, Mr. Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7963	Thank you, Chairman. You see, the chairman of the Council of Ministers just reminded that the Council of Ministers adopted the Work Programme, and then confirmed that it is not working on the implementation of the Work Programme. The second thing is, if parliamentarians and the Council of Ministers are not going to compete, they will compete with at least countries in the region that have gone further than we have. The government of the Republic of Croatia, this new one, after elections in the country, has proposed 16 draft laws since the beginning of its term of office, since the constitution of 22.07. But the most interesting thing you've said is that you don't submit bill proposals to parliamentary procedure because you don't have support. So you, the chairman, have just said, therefore, that this Council of Ministers does not enjoy the parliamentary majority and that is something that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be concerned about. So, the Council of Ministers now acting has no support for the majority in this House, is, you said. Because if you don't deliver the laws here because you say you don't have most of them to pass, it means you don't have the support of most of this House. I thought the government of Canton of Sarajevo was in trouble, but here it seems that these problems appear at the level of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7964	The question of MP Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7965	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Four months ago, when the company of the Croatian Forest began cutting into the border belt of the Plješevica Mountain, at the location of the former airport of Želja, I asked the question of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers – Is the Treaty on the Borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, or Article 7(3) of the Treaty, which provides that the parties to the Treaty, in the event of any work in the border zone, will be notified to the other signator, and that such procedures and actions will thus be jointly agreed and led? 11 I also then called on the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to try to agree with the authorities in the Republic of Croatia to cut down the forest in the border belt until the state border issue is resolved. Here are the four months, the situation of the next Croatian forest has continued with the cut, now on the Plješevica mountain in the border belt there is a bare cut, one naked belt a very ugly picture one, one devastation of that forest area and that entire micro-locality and, of course, that threatened the habitat of the plant and animal world. How the Treaty was signed in '99. year and it is temporarily applied until today, I am interested – Have the BiH institutions and authorities established all the facts in this process, did there be any breach of the Treaty provisions, whether the border belt has been violated, or whether there has been a breach of the border line on that part of the Pljesevic Mountain, or the microlocation of the Jelja airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7966	The Presidential Council of Ministers' reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7967	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, this is, we don't have any further information on this matter. The fact is that in communication with state institutions, first of all with the Border Police, we were in contact with what we received from the Border Police and their estimates that they were there, located somewhere in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that they could not confirm that they had entered our border belt from the point of view of how they see the border line in that area. We used, you know, all those contacts that we had through the Foreign Ministry and the joint conclusion is that the moment a commission for, Bosnia and Herzegovina for borders is formed to sit down and determine whether that line is injured. The process in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet been completed and could not meet these expert bodies with, one and the other countries and determine whether at this time, whether... activities have been injured by the Bosnia and Herzegovina border belt. The moment it is formed, we will get, there will be working sections' meetings and we will get confirmation really whether or not the border line was injured at that time, the border belt between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the information we now have from our agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7968	Commentary, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7969	I thank the Honorable Chairman, and I would ask him to deliver an answer in writing. However, I believe that this practice of implementing the Treaty on the Borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia is not good, because decisions are unilaterally made and are unilaterally handled in the border belt. We know that the border line, i.e. the border between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not ratified, is not clearly marked on the ground or marked. Therefore, if such a practice continues, further border incidents are possible. What happens if other forest and business societies in Bosnia and Herzegovina go the same way to cut down the forest in the border belt? Well, then, are we going to make a competition that will cut the border belt faster and then later, when the conditions are met, determine where and where the damage has been done to? 12 I therefore once again believe that it should have been, that more decisive activities should have been taken by the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to stop this practice because this is not good for good neighbourly relations between the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7970	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7971	Thank you. The question of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers – what the Council of Ministers, of course within its jurisdiction, plans to do and what measures it plans to propose, does it plan at all, to help the branches of the economy, i.e. Those activities most affected by the pandemic COVID-19? And here I mean primarily tourism, hospitality and passenger traffic. You know very well what the situation is when it comes to the filling of accommodation facilities in Banja Luka, and in Sarajevo, and in Mostar, to the limited possibilities of working in catering facilities, and not to talk about passenger traffic, which is not halved, but reduced to a really low level. You have significant jurisdiction at least in the area of indirect taxation. Do you plan to do anything concrete at all to help these activities? Many people are out of work, people are struggling to survive these few months that will probably last for more than a few months. I specifically want to ask you – are you considering at least a temporary reduction in VAT rates, here, for these three activities, for tourism, catering and passenger traffic?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7972	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7973	Thank you very much. Well, this is an extensive topic that could be discussed for a long time and proposed different measures. We will agree on the fact, after the first wave that happened and the practical closure of borders, that tourism, public transportation of passengers, airports, tourist agencies were certainly the most endangered and large number of businesses that directly or exclusively tied their production to exports. What is at the disposal of the Council of Ministers is that part of the financial resources that we have made to redistribute within our budget. I'll remind you that out of our original incomes, $5.5 million was allocated to direct aid. We will place this money with agreement and assessment with the prime ministers, i.e. the governments of the entities, because it is the amount of money that, realistically speaking, is very low for the whole economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to what we need and the resources that we have at our disposal, but we are ready to give them that support. When you talk about these branches of airline transport, tourism,... hospitality is in a significantly better position than tourism because of its internal... capabilities, but these are branches that have no activity whatsoever. They need direct financial support because the reduction in VAT 13 cannot help them, because you simply do not have any activity. You have no accommodation in the hotel, nothing means your VAT rate. The assessment is that together these resources at our disposal are directed towards these economic branches and that we start, at this point in preparation together, to prepare the investment cycle programme and to move towards Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. ...the investment cycle runs many other things, and until that moment we have to help airports, and those who... by transporting public passengers, and those who deal with tourism, but I think at this point the most needed direct financial assistance, because VAT will not, at this point nothing serious can help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7974	Thank you, President Tegeltija. The last one today asked for the word of MP Nenad Stevandić, his question was addressed to the minister...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7975	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7976	Excuse me, Mr. Borenović. You have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7977	All the help is welcome. I expect from you a written answer to my very specific question regarding these three activities when it comes to the eventual intention to reduce the temporary VAT rate. But it is truly scandalous that the Council of Ministers has made no concrete suggestion in this House when it comes to supporting those activities that have the most problems with these challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic. You have today proposed two legal solutions whose titles all speak, the law that deals... with violations and the Law on judicial fees. You know how to fight how to settle a misdemeanor policy in this country, how to arrange forced payment and criminal charges, and nothing concrete how to help businesses, how to help people who are threatened. And I think it's scandalous that you said that you don't have the support of this House to propose legal solutions. You have an obligation to propose them, and on whether you have the support you will see it the moment you propose these laws to this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliament of BiH, so you will see whether there are responsible or irresponsible individuals and MPs who are ready and good initiatives to come from the Council of Ministers, support.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7978	Thank you. Now, Mr. Stevandić, the question is for Minister Gudeljević, who is not justified.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7979	Well, I'll leave it for the second time, and then the minister will have time to prepare herself, because the issue is about naturalised citizens who have received citizenship and where no revision has been made, and I'll leave it for the session, and let the minister prepare herself. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7980	Thank you. No more parliamentary questions. We're moving on to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, compared to the proposed agenda, here are some of the amendments proposed. The previous agenda was removed from point 3. The request by Mr Nermin Nikšić, a member of parliament, to consider the bill on amendments and amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law. Proposer pulled out of the Law Procedure. Point 25. A review of the Aida Baručija MP's initiative, which reads: "According to Article 8. I refer to the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, which reads: The Council of Ministers of BiH calls on the competent authorities and institutions in the Republic of Slovenia to urgently consider the possibility and abolish the provision of mandatory self-insulation for persons coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia." It shall be withdrawn at the request of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Point 27. A review of the parliamentary initiative of Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut and Predrag Kojović, which reads: "According to Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives provide a parliamentary initiative which obliges the Council of Ministers and the competent services to provide a sign language translation through audiovisual media during direct transmission or broadcast of recordings of the bodies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina." At the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, there is no point in the agenda. We add points to the agenda: point 3. The request of MP Damir Arnaut to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on the basis of traffic security on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure. Point 23. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of members of the KRZ branch in Banja Luka and Mostar, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. Point 24. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct procedures for selecting seven members of the Management Board of the High Education Development and Quality Security Agency. Proposer of the Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. Point 29. Proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarians Aida Baručija, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of delivering to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for Migration and Asylum to discuss the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period January – August 2020, and that it be discussed with the presence of the heads of all the authorities and institutions for migration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina." Added on the basis of the Kolegijum odluka in the extended composition. They have been completed: 15 Point 6. Proposal for a law on public procurement with the opinion of the Constitutional Authority of the Commission which is negative. Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs Borjana Krišto, Darijana Filipović, Alma Čolo, Nada Mladina and Edita Đapo, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, which is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and the members of the College and all colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. So, I propose a supplement of the agenda with a point that would be called – European Days of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. As part of this point, I propose, and I think you've all been given the material of this initiative or whatever you want to call it, to adopt one conclusion that would regulate the issue of marking this day, and it would be the Council of Ministers to prepare a proposal for our relationship with that day and the obligations arising from the documents listed to you in the proposal for this initiative, which is the '96 Council of Europe Resolution of the Council of Europe Resolution of the Council of Europe of 2006, Resolution of the European Parliament of 2009 Resolution of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of 2019. They mainly refer to totalitarian regimes and former communist regimes. So, I will remind you that the HDZ Club is already, this third time trying to place on the agenda such a point that we would plead according to these documents that, indeed God, are not the obligation of this Parliament, or Bosnia and Herzegovina is not yet a member of the European Union. However, countries that are in the process of joining the European Union are also invited to manifest themselves and adhere to these resolutions and declarations by those bodies, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. My intention, therefore, was not to, and could go and so, immediately Parliament, therefore, states today on a decision, conclusion or only a declaration of acceptance of one of these documents or all of them, but that one decision, one proposal of our relationship with these documents, prepares the Council of Ministers within 30 days. It's mostly 60 days or longer in us, but it doesn't matter. And this is the session in which I suggested, which is closest, in which we proposed this to the nearest 23rd August which is celebrated as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of these regimes, namely, in August we have annual holidays. That's what we did about the last two times. I say there's nothing else in mind but that in someone, here within 30 days we get one proposal. Here, I have proposed to the Council of Ministers, of course it may be different, uh, to get a document to which this Parliament will be appointed and to essentially enter into our calendar of marking significant dates and this date and to plead according to the documents set out in the initiative and which were, therefore, the reason for submitting, the item of the agenda today at our Parliament's session. It was my thought that today I would make an immediate final proposal for such a statement, so I gave up on it by counting on the Council of Ministers, through my services and resolution ministries, to come up with one proposal for a relationship with all of this that would be acceptable to everyone. I think it's time that we finally, uh, get to the bottom of this, and eventually come up with some of our obligations that you've been told in one part of this document. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7982	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7983	Thank you, Chairman. I propose adding to the agenda, a parliamentary initiative requiring the BiH Council of Ministers to carry out all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia in 10 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, with the aim of retegorising the Gabela Polje border crossing for international passenger traffic or the opening of the same for small-border traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools. We tried to put this as a club yesterday on the agenda at an extended college session so we could save time today, and there was no hearing about it at the Expanded College. I hope we get most of this initiative today, given the urgency of the matter. The motion for an initiative is, therefore, already protocold, I ask the services to share, and here I have a copy if necessary. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia signed international agreements on border crossings and cross-border traffic as early as 2013, however, following the outbreak of this covid of the pandemic, the Republic of Croatia has self-initiatedly closed numerous demarcated crossings towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, including this Gablea Polje crossing for all modes of traffic, therefore. This was not a problem during the summer months due to significantly reduced traffic at the Doljani border crossing, so the international border crossing, however, with the beginning of the school year, locals of border settlements in that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina faced a number of problems... the situation. In particular, children living near the Gabela Polje border crossing, who attend, attend a mass school in Metkovic and surrounding settlements in the Republic of Croatia are now forced to travel to the Doljani border crossing which is significantly away from their houses, so about 14 km is the bypass. It's completely unnecessary, given that their school is about a mile to two miles from here. There is no time for this to go through the commission phase, there is no need for it to go through the commission phase, Parliament here does not adopt anything in terms of a final solution, but exclusively sends an initiative to the Council of Ministers that, in collaboration with the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the sooner the opening of this border crossing comes, and the children's interests are at stake. And I say there's no time again, school year has begun, no need for children to go 14 km around while we conduct an unnecessary commission phase. And that is why I urge my colleagues in the House to accept the inclusion of this item on the agenda and then finally its adoption so that the Council of Ministers has an official request of this House to respond to this acute problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7984	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kojović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7985	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present colleagues. On the basis of Article 8. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure, Club Our Party – Independent Block, proposes the following initiative: "It is necessary for the BiH Council of Ministers to start coordination with the competent bodies of entities and canton within 10 days and from the date of adoption of this initiative, with the aim of enabling the study of the national group of objects to all students who wish to do so, to enroll official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documentation in accordance with the names listed in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and taking into account the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina." Although education is in the jurisdiction of the entity, or canton, it is a fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken on a number of international obligations that prohibit any discriminatory practice, and is the launch of this initiative in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and insisting on the co-ordinating role of the Council of Ministers on the issue, in line with the BiH Constitution. The latest examples prove that this problem remains acute. In Canton 10 in Glamoc, students of Serbian nationality are unable to attend a national group of subjects, nor are classes in Serbian allowed. In the municipality of Kotor Varoš, parents hope to execute court decisions to enable children of Bosniak nationality to study the national group of cases, i.e. the Bosnian language. In other areas, the school documents shall include language names which do not comply with the names set out in the Dayton Agreement. All this leads to discriminatory practice, leading to violations of obligations by Bosnia and Herzegovina at international level. Parents' statements from Glamoc indicate that this problem is necessary institutionally to address. For example, for the sake of parents of students who were prevented from attending a national group of subjects, i.e. teaching in Serbian, he said in a statement to the media – I thought that we parents could do something, but obviously we can't do anything. This problem, the man said, can solve Milorad Dodik with one invitation to Dragan Čović. It is evident that all parent’s efforts can either not lead to a solution or last too long. It is also unacceptable that such issues are addressed by phone calls between political party leaders. In view of all of the above, including the fact that it is children's rights, as well as the urgency of this issue, because each delay creates irreparable harm for children who continue to attend schooling, and taking into account constitutional competences concerning the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is necessary for the House of Representatives to order the BiH Council of Ministers to, without delay, co-ordinate with the competent entity and cantonal authorities with a view to a permanent systemic and uniform solution to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7986	Thank you, Sergeant Kojović. 18 The speaker answered the word, Mr. Radmanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7987	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I am obliged on behalf of the Extended College for a brief explanation of these three proposals for addition. Namely, all three proposals were held yesterday at a session of the Extended College, and they did not receive support for a variety of reasons. The proposals tabled by Mr. Damir Arnaut and Mr. Kojović because of the fact that in his regular work before yesterday's session, the College deployed the proposals that were made in the commission phase. It seemed illogical to put them in today's session. Today we got further explanations on why this should go urgently, not in the regular procedure, but I am obliged to explain this. When it comes to the first, or third proposal in this regard, as I explain, and the first one that Mr. Lovrinović presented on behalf of the HDZ MPs' Club, I must say, yesterday, has caused a serious debate at the General Assembly session. We did not adopt it not for these reasons, not for these two, but for essential reasons, because a number of MPs, i.e. club chiefs and members of the College, did not accept that this is being discussed today, not in this, as Mr Lovrinović said today, in a simplified manner. I remind you that some time ago, we had a debate about a resolution in this House that also refers to the past, not only Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also beyond, which has caused bile debates, has not produced any results. We have a choice today. I am offering one who I think is better for this Parliament and for everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to hold a debate today on this proposal that Mr Lovrinović has tabled. We are not leading because both this Parliament and our voters have far more important jobs than to listen to debates that have no results. It is known that we do not agree on the past in these places. And when such a proposal is presented by Mr. Lovrinović, where the liberators and occupiers, victims and criminals are equalized, he will never be accepted, nor can he be, nor can he pass through with a simple debate. That is why my proposal is again, we will vote because he, as the club chief, has the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to propose, we must vote on it, but I urge you not to vote on this proposal, not to conduct today's debate. This Parliament and all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina have things that are much more important, which we have heard in parliamentary matters, and in our answers we have even heard what we have to do, and not to deal with the past that we know in advance that we are not in agreement. An eye that we'll share even more and we won't get any results. No one can benefit from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7988	I thank Mr. Radmanović. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Predrag Kojović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7989	I thank the chairman. Mr. Radmanović, I agree with you in some of the things you said, although, uh, it's not right that you put these three proposals in the same basket, in some ways, as I would say. I agree with you on the resolution proposed by my colleague Lovrinović that she is, we are for the European resolution but we have an explanation that is attached to this initiative absolutely unacceptable. But on the other hand, really, I feel the need to point out once again – every day 19 children go 14 km in the school year that has already begun. When we proposed an initiative that you're saying that if it was possible to cross over the crossing, we handed it over to the protocol a long time ago, when the school hadn't even started yet. You haven't scheduled a session until now, and every day it's really a big problem. And I, indeed, would like to hear what your fundamental problem is to allow children to go to school by crossing across the street, not traveling, as I would say, 14 km to the border crossing. I think these three things you've listed, I understand, what we've proposed to institutionally address the problem of a national group of cases, we've referred it as an initiative to the Council of Ministers. Mr. Lovrinović's resolution certainly deserves attention, but it certainly requires additional work between parliamentary groups and clubs here, but the initiative that is related to children and going to school is indeed something that would be at least rude not to put in today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7990	Mr. Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7991	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7992	No, he was Lovrinović, he just shut down. Nenad Stevandić, the correction of the wrong allegations, and he does not accept, will not participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7993	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7994	It will. He has the word Mr. Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7995	I just wanted to, respecting motive and reason, and the need for what Mr. Kojović suggested, I must tell you that what you suggested is not the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. This is constitutional matter and the question of language is arranged by the constitution of entities. So, I understand, I support, I understand, but this is not a question that the Council of Ministers can discuss because constitutional matter is and, I said, language is regulated in entity constitutions. I agree with Mr. Radmanović about Mr. Lovrinović's initiative, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7996	Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7997	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, first of all, for, in a way, separating two initiatives on the one hand and this one on the other. So these two we suggested are urgent and there's no dispute. As for the 20th fact that the College has started some commission activities, I've explained why the commission phase, minor, doesn't make any sense, because we're not going to, uh, deal with it already from the Council of Ministers to deal with it in accordance with its powers. And we have a precedent, we adopted only once at the Extended College to supplement the agenda without a commission phase, decided not to go into a commission phase that was also launched when it comes to the use of residences owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina by ambassadors. So we have a precedent. As for Mr Stevandić's comments, he absolutely does not stand, only justification if he did not read the text of the parliamentary initiative, as he says in the text himself – it is the BiH Council of Ministers that within 10 days, from the day of adoption of this initiative, co-ordination with the competent bodies of entities and cantons is launched. And then it is very clear in the explanation that education in the jurisdiction of entities and cantons, but also the Law on the Council of Ministers, the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration says that the Council of Ministers, in particular the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is responsible for coordinating these issues, among other things, with the competent bodies of entities and cantons. So this issue of jurisdiction is literally copied from the legal solutions adopted in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly and based on which the Council of Ministers led by the man from your party. Therefore, all that is done here is – the Council of Ministers is required to do its job, so to coordinate and, here, we say in the initiative, with the competent bodies of entities and cantons. The alternative is the despair that people on the ground of Serbian nationality in Glamoc, who do not allow HDZ to learn Serbian, for them, among other things, this initiative has been submitted, Mr Stevandić. The alternative, therefore, to this institutional approach which respects all the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina that these people in despair call on Milorad Dodik to telephone Dragan Čović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7998	Please watch your time. We're just getting started. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u7999	Well, I answered first of all to protest my discrimination, so all of you colleagues, the few of you who said, say, the kinky of his initiative, the kinky of ours. What does that mean, I'm a second-class citizen or a second-row parliamentarian? My initiative is like your initiatives, or you like it or you don't like it, it's some other thing. Just one thing, therefore, Mr. Radmanović, I don't suggest, you really said that nothing is being discussed today, I suggest one conclusion, and I am informed that colleagues have received the initiative, that he adopts. When there's something in front of us, then we'll discuss it. That's exactly what you said. I'm not in the mood to argue today either. So this should not be a debate on our local problems, but it is clear what these documents are about, European documents. We can talk about it today and whenever you want. So, you're right, I don't want any discussion either, I want to draw this conclusion, that the Council of Ministers delivers it to us in 30, or here's what I said, days and that we may be having a debate. So we're going to get to the same thing and what you're proposing, there's really no need today to talk about anything, the way I explained it and approached it, here I'm just trying to suggest the agenda point just so we can finally get some space to finally read it to these documents, which would be, in my opinion, okay. Nothing more. Thank you very much. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8000	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8001	Well, let me tell Mr. Damir Arnaut I'm absolutely right. It is impossible to coordinate or coordinate in something defined by the constitution and something within the jurisdiction of another authority. Legal matter doesn't know that. What I'm telling you is I'm getting, to say right now, instructions from the United Serb legal team. So, it's, it can be popularized as something that makes sense, but constitutionally-lawfully, it's inadmissible, and it can't be coordinated on something that's regulated by the entity's constitution and what's in that domain, let's just say, it's... quite clear. I can ask myself, to say, to launch initiatives on entities, so, let me say, to build some working groups, etc., but this is inadmissible. This is what the first year of law school knows.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8002	Mr. Damir Arnaut, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8003	Thank you, Chairman. I then propose to Mr Stevandić to initiate an assessment of the constitutionality of the Ministry Act and other administration bodies that prescribe a co-ordinating role, including the Ministry of Civil Affairs, when something is in the entity's jurisdiction. So, you vote for those laws, your chairman of the Council of Ministers acts by those laws, and then you say it can't do that. Well, then, here you have the chairman of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, you have the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you have a member of the Bureau, these are all authorized applicants for constitutionalisation before the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then you start a request for a constitutional assessment, asking the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina to declare every time a co-ordinating role of the Council of Ministers is mentioned that it is unconstitutional. Until then, it is the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina and you have an obligation to act on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8004	Mr. Borenović, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8005	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, I've been looking at the materials, as far as I know by article 71, any addition to the agenda means written material. We have not received any of these three initiatives or demands material. Really, here, maybe I didn't get it, but here, I tried, I examined, please give... an initiative to take a look at it. As far as I know, Article 71. The Rules of Procedure have made it clear that a new agenda point can be proposed with the relevant material in writing. Give it to you, it's a couple, I didn't get, I'm sorry, maybe you got it, but here, as far as I checked in this row, maybe this is some kind of discrimination that my colleague Lovrinović is talking about, that this order, here I checked out, didn't get... 22
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8006	Mr. Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8007	Thank you, Chairman. Only clarifications are done, so it is the duty of MPs to propose an addition of the agenda to do so with the relevant material. We have fulfilled our obligation, I absolutely do not dispute that other MPs have not received, but it is now up to the service and, uh, if you want to take a break, but the fact is that we delivered, so here, we waved while we were speaking, uh, material in writing. We have fulfilled our obligation, and now why the MPs have not received it is then the technical matter that services need to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8008	Mr. Zlatan Begić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8009	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to request a break on behalf of the DF Club, as far as you judge the chairman, because it's really not right for us to make decisions without written material. It puts us in an unfavourable position and people who have suggested something, and it puts us in an unfavourable position, because maybe some of them got, maybe some didn't, maybe there's a lot of justification for what people were looking for, so in that sense, they'd ask for a brief break until the services carried out this obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8010	Part of the material you got, this one Mr. Lovrinović is talking about, here's a piece of the material to be shared. A 30 minute break, with the debate closed, no more debates, we're pleading on these points and on the day of order as a whole. 30 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] Let's go, ladies and gentlemen, we're pleading, we've concluded the debate on the agenda, we're pleading in order, as suggested for the new agenda points. First proposal from the HDZ Club. We present ourselves around the agenda point – European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Voting. Prom 32 - for 4, versus 17, abstention 11, there is no general majority. Mr. Lovrinović's proposal didn't go through with the HDZ Club. Next, Parliament's initiative by Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to carry out all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia within 10 days from the date of adoption of this initiative with the aim of retegorising the Gable Field border crossing for international passenger transport or the opening of the same for small-border traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of pupils of primary and secondary schools. We plead. Present 31 – for 15, against 4 abstentions 12. There's a general majority, no entity majority. We'll come forward later, there's no consent from the College to plead today. The next proposal is the MP's initiative by Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Council of Ministers to start coordination with the competent bodies of entities and canton within 10 days of the adoption of this initiative with the aim of enabling the study of the national group of subjects, including the registration of official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with all school documents in accordance with the names listed in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and taking into account the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina." Present 31 – for 15, against 4 abstentions 12. There's a general majority, no entity majority. We're also making a later statement about this, and I'm saying there's not gonna be a agenda point today, there's no Denis. I find that the next Agenda 1 will be held at the 12th session of the House. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the regular and 10th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of MP Damir Arnaut to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the basis of traffic security on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1805/20, since 14/09/2020; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-679/20, of 09.06.2020 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1 1344/20, from 02.07.20120 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MPs from the DF Club, Number: 01-02-1-1381/20, from 22.07.20120, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Rights Commission; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs Borjana Krišto, Darijana Filipović, Alma Čolo, Nada Mladina and Edita Đapo, issue: 01-02-1-1408/20, since 09.07.20120, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights; 24 8. Report by the Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the achievement of the identical text of the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, from 09.08.2017 and 27.09.2017); 9. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salary Payments and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), issue: 01,02-02-1-596/20, of 24.07.20120 (legal in second reading); 10. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in BiH authorities (proposers: Members Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić), issue: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 24.07.20120 (the law in first reading); 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative: Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut, Predrag Kojović and Aida Baručija, which reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, we submit a parliamentary initiative suggesting responsible state and entity institutions, or the institutions of the Brcko District of BiH (governments and legislative authorities) to prepare and adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on criminal proceedings, in such a way as to integrate provisions on the exemption from the cost of the procedure covered by the amount recognised by the party in the name of the lawyer's award in the event of the party representing public defence and in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, issue: 01-50-1-12222/20, since 24.07.20120; 12. The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on the MPs' initiative from the SDA Club, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, we submit a parliamentary initiative to which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 35. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers' Law ("The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within 90 days the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’), No. 3/03, 21/03 and 8/13), in a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Judicial Police are established as the basic organisational unit of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina.", number: 01-50-1229/20, since 24.07.20120; 13. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1494/20, of 22.07.20120; 14. Consideration of BHRT's material management board: a. Report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18- 1503/20, of 23.07.20120 and b. Programme plans and financial plan BHRT for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-181/20, of 29.05.2020; 15. Special report on the representation of the constituent peoples and others in the institutions, administrative organisations and regulatory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the cantons of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the exception of police and security structures, applicant: The BiH Ombudsman's institution, issue: 01.02-50-18-1555/20, since 27.07.20120; 16. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01.02-04-1-1562/20, since 28.07.20120; 17. Report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1633/20, dated 10.08.2020; 25 18. Report on the Implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018, applicant: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-37-1656/20, since 17.08.2020; 19. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January - December 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-1678/20, since 24.08.2020; 20. Proposal for a Decision establishing the Ad hoc Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the process of appointing members of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, Proposer: Ministry of Communications and Transport, issue: 01.02-34-1-1583/20, since 30.07.20120; 21. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption from the Parliamentary House of BiH, Proposer: College of the Parliamentary House of BiH, 01-50-16-1735/20, of 02.09.20120; 22. The selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, one from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, the Report of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to conduct procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency, one from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, issue: 01,02-50-16-1092-5,1/20, since 31.08.2020; 23. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the exchange of members of the KRZ branch in Banja Luka and Mostar, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1730-220, of 11.09.20120; 24. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting seven members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1732-220, since 11.09.20120. Consideration of the Parliamentary Initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH Official Messenger, No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative that the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Justice, prepares a new text of the Law on the resolution of the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations," No. 01-50-1-1380/20, of 06.07.20120; 26. Consideration of the Parliamentary Initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative – I propose the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to form a Parliamentary Group for Response to HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis, hepatitis and other co-infections", number: 01-50-1-1462/20, since 17.07.20120; 27. A review of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), I submit a parliamentary initiative in which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, that within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, it implements Decision 854/2017 of the UN Committee for Combating Tortrum (UNCAT) of August 2019, which is one of the priorities set out in Opinion 26 of the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union”, issue: 01-50-1-1567/20, of 28.07.20120; A review of Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH House of Representatives College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to prepare material and the presence of senior members of the Council of Ministers, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers of BiH, to give the House of Representatives relevant information, and then discuss the European Commission's opinion on the request for membership in the European Union with a special focus on the implementation of 14 key priorities in this document," issue: 01-50-1704/20, since 25/08.2020; 29. Proposal for the conclusion of MPs Aida Baručija, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, which reads as follows: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of delivering to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for Migration Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period January – August 2020, and that it be discussed with the presence of all the competent authorities and institutions for migration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1749/20 (link number: 01-50-15-12/20), as of 02.09.20120; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and the Government of the Swiss Confederation, represented by the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), with regard to the approval of a financial contribution in the form of a grant for the Gradišca Waste Water Collection and Purification Project, No: 01,02-21-1711/20, of 26.08.2020; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (Sarajevo City Traffic Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-21-1712/20, dated 26/08.2020; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (additional financing for the Real Estate Registration Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-21-1713/20, since 26/08.2020. It's the agenda we're about to realize. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the regular and 10th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8014	I thank the chairman. I would like to thank the BiH Standardisation Institute and the Market Oversight Agency for very concrete answers and for the prompt reaction, and a concrete comment on the data I asked for when all the answers arrive, I think it will be very interesting for all of us, and also for the citizens of BiH. I would also like to thank the Ombudsman's institution for its prompt reaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8015	Thank you. Mrs. Nada Mladina, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8016	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, vice-president, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. Let me comment on the three questions I have received. Namely, the first question I asked in January of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Council of Ministers, identified the answer in April, but I could not comment at the July session because the question was not answered. 28 In fact, my question was about alternative fuels at BiH's annual level how solid, liquid and gasy, and the particular question was – How much was the participation of imports of waste from the Republic of Croatia and other countries in relation to garbage as alternative fuel from BiH and whether it was implemented and what were the results of the control that in the import contigence of garbage on smugglers accidentally nuclear waste in BiH and whether it started with the production or the waste management plan has been completed, as well as the strategic documents for which it was envisaged that experts from this area from all over BiH would be invited? I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for a very correct response, particularly on this information regarding the annual, annual use or production of alternative fuel. However, what is particularly interesting is that the Council of Ministers cannot answer the question specifically how much the participation of waste imports from other countries in relation to garbage as alternative fuel from BiH is reportedly part of the integrated waste management system in line with the entity and Brcko district strategic waste management documents. There are no specific data from the field of waste management in BiH with the active participation of all relevant actors in BiH, so activities are currently being conducted to establish a single information system for the area of waste management aimed at uniting information flow. I am glad that in this response it is in a concrete way that it is obvious that this will be the case, in the meantime we are informed from the media, at least I, that we have imports of garbage from Italy into the entity of Republika Srpska, which means that at BiH level we really need to do something about it. Control of whether there's garbage and radioactive waste surprised me about the answer, because it's supposed to be the Agency's control, the Agency's competent to control whether there's radiation, nuclear waste at the loading site, etc. and here the competent institutions, i.e. the ministry in the Council of Ministers, have no such information, and I will certainly refer the issue to the Agency, not only me, but they, too. It encourages the fact that, that they are implemented and there are certain shifts of control that in the import contigence of garbage, not smugglers and nuclear waste in BiH and, in accordance with the entity laws, according to the requirements of the importer, entities's ministry of waste, solutions are made that determines the obligation of importers to actually carry out cross-border transport before each shipment of waste at the loading site, carry out radiological control of waste, and this is done by the Agency, the State Agency regulatory for radiation and nuclear safety on their own, but I am sure that we all expect that this response will be transparent for us, not only for us, but for the general public of BiH. The fourth question, the sub-question was related to the waste management plan and I see here that they have launched initiatives and activities in co-operation with the Swedish Government to finally draw up this strategic document, which I find very important, very important and I thank you for this broad answer. The next question I have referred to concerns the issue of activities that are being taken to reduce and destroy ambrosia. Since there are very many citizens, children and adults suffering from allergies, and we have a problem with this Korean plant, I have received a very correct response from the Ministry of the Environment of the Federation of BiH, which informs us that they have adopted an Action Plan to meet the public, destroy and combat the spread of ambrosia in the Federation of BiH, that programmed activities have also been given concrete responsibilities to federal institutions and administrative organisations to implement the programme of public awareness with the aim of preventing and protecting the harmful action of ambrosia in the Federation. The Action Plan was adopted in 2008 to eventually be addressed until 2011 with decisions that cantonal ministries would be the one to update the data and forward this information to the competent federal inspectorate. However, this did not happen, but a map of the prevalence of ambrosia was developed in the Federation and 29 procedures inter alia, inventory and mapping of invasive species, including ambrosia in the Federation area ended during 2019. The financing of these tasks was carried out in the context of planned activities, but for 2020, an activity that had results in raising awareness of the prevention of the spread and destruction of the corrosive plant species of ambrosia, uh, has been slightly disrupted, given that the funds are being rerouted for...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8017	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8018	Economic recovery at the time of the coronary pandemic virus.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8019	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8020	I hope that there will be an opportunity for the rebalancing of such activities, and in particular not to allow the cantonal competent institutions or institutions of the Brcko District to ignore what the Federal and Federal Inspectorate Action Plan has imposed, because this represents a significant impact on the health of the population and at the time of the pandemic can lead to confusing data related to the crown and related allergies. The next response I received from the Ministry of Communications, which I thank, referred to what level of realization came from the introduction of a digital signal for TV transmission to BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8021	Time, Mrs. Mladina.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8022	I thank you for the answer, this, the strategy of switching from analogue to digital earth broadcasting, the Microwave Connections Project of Public TV Services in BiH has been fully created a technical assumption for replacing existing analogue links and, in a certain way, by assessing the digital system is covered by 80% of the area, but this applies all to the first stage. The second phase is obviously not even started, and it refers to 20% of the rest of BiH, which refers to rural areas and those of the returnee's age and household. I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Communications will move towards both phase two and stage three, because technical assumptions have been created which they have announced in their response.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8023	Mrs. Mladina, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8024	Thank you very much, I'm pleased with the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8025	Thank you. 30 I ask the People's Messengers to take a little care of the time prescribed. The Riječa has the vice president, Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8026	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and all present, I welcome you very much. Namely, I will comment on the answers I received on two parliamentary questions. One thing is, the question is addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, namely Deputy Minister and in connection with Mrs Monika Mijić's resolution from function V.d. Members of the Council of Ministers of, at the position of the European Court of Human Rights representative. I will say very briefly, in the beginning, that I am dissatisfied with this answer very much because in this response absolutely did not use things that have a basis in law, and in fact that is what I want to point out here this time, because this response absolutely did not refer to the Administration Act, in particular Article 55(a) of Article 3, 4 and 5, which says that the institution cannot remain without a manager because of the end of the term of office. Also in the context of the existing legal situation, it is clear that the tender is not completed, nor can it be a reason for the institution to be left without a manager. Therefore, it is also not stated in the answer to this parliamentary question that two state bodies, namely the Committee of the State Department of Appeals in BiH and the Administrative Inspectorate of the Ministry of Justice, have also established this illegality of publication v.d. Representatives Monika Mijić and her check-out from the Federation Tax Administration without a decision to resolve. I also see here, so from some answers, we can come to the conclusion that the perpetrator, meaning the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, before the European Court of Human Rights, has been unlawfully resolved by the Deputy Minister and that, in relation to other officials of the BiH institutions, discrimination has also been committed and we can say that because of the harsh violation of the law, this ministry which is responsible for the functioning of the Deputy Council of Ministers' institutions is not only a violation of the rights of individuals, meaning, from a working relationship, but also destroying the integrity of the institution of the Council of Ministers' representatives. I still wouldn't, uh, look back at this comment in this matter, I think it's enough what and how and how institutions work, whether they behave legally or not. Here, when it comes to the second answer, that is, to my question referred to by three other institutions, which concerns the problem of the disposal of textile and other waste in Hercegbossan County, I must say that the answers I have received are from all three institutions, and that one answer I received from the Federal Ministry of Environment and Tourism is in some way the most comprehensive and in fact what I have seen is only from that answer that something has actually been dried up in this particular situation, so among other things here I thank our colleague as the minister of this Ministry for this answer. In fact, the proposal that the Ministry referred this to a federal inspection that went out on the ground showed that this was about the following, that the drive and location to which the waste was to be introduced and recycled did not correspond at all to the situation on the ground, that the waste was located entirely in another location, rather than in the drive of the economic society that imported it and which had to store it in one regulated way. To avoid further entry, it is also seen from inspection supervision that the address at which the registered economic site for waste imports does not correspond to the real address, and in fact the Drvar Municipality. In fact, we can conclude that from this solution, the inspectorate has also set a deadline of 30 days for the said waste to be delayed or to return to the location from which it was imported, but nothing has been done until this day, and here, as the deadlines pass, and while the correspondence of BiH institutions does not solve the problem, unfortunately this price pays for the health of residents living close to these 31 dumps, and of course beyond, I would say that endangers the health of all BiH residents. Thank you very much, I hope that some who hear this will try to implement the Federal Inspectorate's solutions and that this problem is indeed solved in order to protect the health of all those living in that area and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8027	Thank you. There are no reports. I'm closing point two. Point three, Ad. 3. The request of MP Damir Arnaut to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the basis of traffic security on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-1805/20, of 14/09/2020 You were asked to consider an emergency procedure. The legislative sector delivered its opinion. Mr. Arnaut delivered the corrected text of the bill. I'm opening an emergency hearing. There are no reports. We're pleading a request.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8029	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8030	Damir, here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8031	Thank you, Chairman. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure are very clear when it comes to an emergency procedure if it is a law drawn up in a way that can be adopted in a single reading, in such a simple way that it can be adopted in a single reading can be considered by an urgent procedure. This is, therefore, a supplement with one attitude in one member. That member is already referring to this problem as to what is in driving licences, the information contained in driving licences, and here we simply add one position, in line with the world’s practice of entering information into the driver’s license that the driver is agreed to be a donor of the body if the person signes such a declaration when applying for the issue, replacement or extension of the period of validity of the driver’s licence. In all such situations, the consent of relatives to the donation of 32 bodies will not be required. So this is a world practice that has been long, long years, I can say for decades, present in democratic countries, and this is in the interest of both public health and giving people the opportunity to plead on these issues. As I said before, if there is a need, I will explain the bill in more detail, although I say, this is the essence of this bill. And only this brief explanation shows that the emergency request is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8032	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I wouldn't be willing to support an emergency procedure, an emergency procedure because, it's all like Mr. Arnaut says, and it is an idea, to say so, noble or, I don't know, well, it's used, as he said, in many countries, but it's not a clear provision and then it has to be arranged, and it can't be amended. So, first of all, I'm in favour of the fact that the man knows about this right, but that at the vehicle registration site, it can't be asked by anyone. So, he can just know this and then come and again that statement would have to be confirmed somewhere, whether it's in the notebook or, I don't know, where the signature is being verified, whether, and accompanied by the registration. And that when it comes to the place of registration that then the clerk says whether you are that, etc., I don't think it's pleasant and not necessary, but it should... But it can't be... in a way that if that procedure goes the way that Mr. Arnaut did it. It seems to me that, or, I don't know, maybe he has an answer to something like that, but a statement would have to, you can't do that at the vehicle registration site. It's kind of vague, vague text, it's a vague article, and it might lead to an awkward situation for people who may not have thought about it, or maybe they don't want to, but he doesn't want to be asked there by that official -- is, are you, are you at the registration, and where that statement is going to be signed, etc., there's a story opening in that place. I don't think that's quite worked out like this. But it can't be fixed now without, that's a different procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8034	Wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut. We're talking about an emergency procedure, I remind you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8035	Yes, but I'm correcting Mr. Lovrinović's guilty allegations. He says this is why he can't go into an emergency procedure. This is absolutely not what he said now because Mr. Lovrinović either predicted or ignored the fact that this Member of the Law already has an existing position (3) which will become a new position (4), which says – closer to the provision of the form and content of the driving licence forms, categories and sub-categories, etc.,... extension of validity, replacement,... It will regulate the rules adopted by the minister in co-operation with the entity, canton and minister of the Brcko District of BiH in charge of internal affairs. [[You don't understand.]] So, anything that goes into the driver's license. And this would be another piece of information that would possibly go into the driver's license if he... pleads, and further edits through a regulation that brings the Minister of Transport and Communications into co-operation with the entity, cantonal and minister of Brcko District. So they already have all this power through this existing member, the existing position of Law 33 to regulate these issues that Mr. Lovrinović was talking about. And that position, of course, remains, only after a new position (3) is inserted with what I have suggested, that position becomes a position (4). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8036	Thank you. No more reports. I'm concluding an emergency hearing. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Of the 28 present – 13 for, 9 against, 6 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. In the second round, there was no request for an emergency procedure in the first round, leaving for the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8037	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8038	Okay. An emergency procedure has not been accepted. The ex post alignment will be about an emergency procedure. I'm closing point three. Point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-679/20, of 09.06.2020 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 11th session of the House. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a report adopting the bill. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02- 02-1344/20, from 02.07.20120 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8042	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I, contrary to the Commission’s view, that is, the fact that the Commission has not established that the Law is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal order, am responsible for arguing that it is in conformity with the Constitution and the legal order. I also claim that the Constitutional Commission, I'm afraid, is going beyond the scope of its powers. I think that this Commission is less and less considering whether certain acts are in line with the Constitution and the legal order, and is increasingly starting with who is the applicant of the proposal, and even entering into the content of the solutions themselves. I think that's how the MPs in this representative body are bound to consider and discuss legal proposals. I am afraid that the Constitutional Commission has in some way detached itself from its constitutional competence and from its competence under the Rules of Procedure and has complied with some other criteria which are not legal criteria. Now, about the law itself. This morning you could see on the news that the pandemic of the coronaryvirus is gaining momentum, of course, is also related to the very point, the chairman. Only in France over 6,000 patients, if I've seen correctly, in just one day. School's on its way, winter's coming, and we can easily find ourselves in a situation of catastrophic increase in the number of coronary pandemics. There are people in institutions who want to do their job in accordance with the law. The existing Law, unfortunately, makes it impossible for these people to carry out their duties in a transparent and public interest. I would like to see, and I think it will be a huge problem that people in charge of conducting the procedure of public procurement of medical equipment, drugs will find it difficult to decide to move into these procedures, given the inconsequence of existing legal solutions. Huge legal gaps, the possibility that because something is not written in the law or not accurately written enough is even subject to criminal prosecution. On the other hand, these legal solutions, we have already seen them, allow for various manipulations, and before us, therefore, is one period very uncertain when it comes to the pandemic of the coronary virus. I would really like to, there have been objections to the Constitutional Commission that went after it, which I believe is justified, that the Council of Ministers should be more intensively involved. I would sincerely like 35 if the Council of Ministers had offered this bill and that we could go to a regular legislative procedure, where everyone would have the opportunity to invest amendments, discuss, correct that text. That is why a regular procedure has been proposed for the adoption of this Law. My dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think this is a question for us to share on. Given that the motive for such a promiscuous suggestion of this proposal is actually contained in the circumstances in which we live and work, which is the pandemic of the coronary virus. I will remind you that the coronaryvirus does not attack entities, not the Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, us Rom and others, but attacks people, citizens of this country, and that it is our best way to answer that. Unfortunately, there are a huge number of issues that we can face here at a political level, I say unfortunately, although I think there are both possibilities and agreements and progress, but don't make up political disagreements on issues that should be a common problem for us, to solve them together in the interests of both our neighbours and our families and all other citizens who can be exposed to this monster. In that sense, I would also ask all of us who are members of the Constitutional Commission not to take away the authority of this representative body, to allow this representative body to plead in a democratic procedure, so if we need to fix it, or if something is incorrigible to reject certain proposals, but not to take the right to disprove the people's representatives who have been elected by citizens to perform their constitutional duty and jurisdiction. And once again, I would be overjoyed, and we from the Democratic Front Club would be overjoyed if we had a series of laws coming from the Council of Ministers here, I'd be delighted if someone else had taken over this huge job that we did, and made and prepared one of these acts. I would support with both hands no matter who it comes from. I thank you and hope that this debate will not be used for further reflection and challenge, so to speak, conflict where, in my opinion, it is not an objective place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8043	Thank you. Only one request for MPs leaving the session to disfellowship, and this is important for the sake of health security. I'm limiting the hearing to five minutes. The word has Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8044	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So we are considering a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and in that light, I would, here I dare to express my agreement with my colleague Begić's earlier discussion. Namely, this is, although in this particular case, the Constitutional Commission has decided as it is competent... The Rules of Procedure, to assess whether any draft legislative solution is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are unfortunately not, although as MPs we personally and as clubs have warned of a single screw-up, in certain cases, the behaviour of the Constitutional Commission when it comes to assessing compliance with the Constitution of legislative proposals which had a clean... constitutional basis. So, I support what you just said and I really hope that, first of all, you as a representative of one of the 36 parties coming from the Federation, will really stick to that attitude when they come up next in some future legislative contributions on the agenda. As to why I consider it to be a good assessment of the Constitutional Commission, I welcome all initiatives concerning improving the public procurement system with which at this time no one is satisfied except for a certain group, this, obviously, of all of us known, some of the mechanics who find a place for their inappropriate actions in such an unedited system. So neither public institutions nor public enterprises nor quality bidders are satisfied, etc. However, bearing in mind that at this point in time, as you have suggested, in 23 places it is not adequate, we have carefully analysed it in the SNSD, it has not adequately overcome the problems of everyday life and it has inserted the relevant provisions that are in line with the authority of the entities when it comes to inspection supervision. ... I'm making an argument as to why the Constitutional Commission made the right decision. But as far as the public procurement system of some future law is concerned, I really hope so, because this is matter for expert groups and we support and we will support it in this way by passing laws. Because here, as I am aware, if you are not, that one past law is an infamous one, as it has been shown in practice, fate has been seen in a way that a lot of amendment has been done in the Parliamentary Assembly. At the end of the epilogue, we have what we have. So, we support and support the legislative proposals that I hope will come from the Council of Ministers... in terms of... the process of public procurement in total, but we are not, nor will we support something that comes out of the framework of constitutional jurisdiction and for which, in the concrete proposal at... places, we have not seen an improvement of what is happening to us in practice, and we are not sure that such a large proposal, such a significant legislative project can be recast by amendment action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8045	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, a clear view of the Constitutional Commission. Especially with this final part of Mrs Bursać's previous speech, I agree, but I must say it is not fair of my colleague Begić to say that we are taking the right to take away this Parliament's right to, behold, discuss some proposals, legislative solutions, etc. I can't agree with that. So, we have our own letter to the Rules of Procedure, and we're doing that job that's... like... The Constitutional Commission. So it's not fair. We even tried to find a solution yesterday to keep the law in order because we appreciated what counterpart Begić just said, that they took a really big effort from the DF to make one systematic, comprehensive law, a very necessary law at this point, so we all said, and that it is not fair to say so. And exactly the opposite of that, so I didn't want to go into the scale of the solution, as he said himself, without getting the opinion of the Council of Ministers and agencies implementing this law. That's what we've been looking for and saying that we're just looking for extra time to eventually get those opinions. And now there's really a problem that, under the pretext of being forced by the Council of Ministers to deliver that opinion, not the first time we've asked them, in this law... the others, it does exist. I am inclined to find some sort of solution and to make it simple for this Parliament to know that when a committee concludes something and asks the Council of 37 ministers to deliver it within the time limit. So colleagues wouldn't be in this position if we were each other, so maybe even good solutions stay somewhere on the margins or never be considered right because we're waiting for an opinion. But I really can't, I can't, I don't want to, and I'm not so capable of going in, I just know that the need is great to pass a law like this, to enter solutions without thinking at least these two institutions. This is what we have proposed and was at one point a proposal, if I am not mistaken, for the president to conclude that we are looking for additional time, as possible according to the Rules of Procedure, to get these opinions, but it was not acceptable for the promoter, it was voted as it was voted, therefore. But I don't think it's going to be a tragedy today whether or not it's adopted an opinion, uh, that it might happen again and that such an opinion will come out. And I agree that I would like the Council of Ministers to do that, such laws. If there is no other way, then when we bring him the Work Plan, we might prepare ourselves for them and ultimately put them in the Work Plan to adopt some legal solutions that are absolutely necessary. As representatives, we felt that it was necessary, so through the Work Plan that we adopt, let's say for 2021 - gentlemen, you have to bring these and those laws, if not otherwise. I especially appeal to the work of those who belong to the parliamentary majority, therefore, because then, it seems to me that often we fall asleep to the Council of Ministers with various initiatives, and then they probably defend themselves by not responding. I am not defending anyone right now, but I think that, especially the people and MPs of the parliamentary majority, we need to find a way for the Council of Ministers to answer these questions and to initiate procedures that are necessary. Here at the Committee of European Integrations, we have expressed our demand, where I am president, that by 15 October we get those three, four laws that are a condition, in some way, of those 14 requests from the European Commission for candidate status. So this is all going on, but here, that's it, I had to say it. And I hope that in the future they will try to solve this in this way that I propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8047	Mr. Arnaut, guilty of allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8048	Thank you, Chairman. Well, Mr. Lovrinović was just talking about a parliamentary majority that we have heard from the Council of Ministers today that it does not exist. In contrast to what Mr. Lovrinović said that the Council of Ministers allegedly does not deliver laws because we bury them with initiatives, is it, so, uh, too busy, I think it makes more sense to believe what a man is today, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said here – that they do not deliver laws because they do not have a majority for their adoption. So we have a government that doesn't enjoy the parliamentary majority. In normal situations, such a government resigns. That's what the man today, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, told us here. I have no reason not to trust him, because it shows, after all, how he delivers, four laws in 10 months, whether, since he's been elected. However, as far as this is concerned, Mr. Lovrinović, you told him that, uh, the Constitutional Commission is working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is not working. It does not work because it has not been established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that the commission, the composition of each commission, reflects the proportional composition of the House, the clubs in the House. And because of that, in the normal situation, and in the last term, etc., you have no anomalies to pass something in the House if we put in an emergency procedure and 38 we avoid the Constitutional Commission, and if it goes into a regular procedure, fall on the Constitutional Commission. And... explicit data, the Rules of Procedure are respected on all clubs except HDZ. SDA, for example. There are 9 members in this House, out of 42, that's 21.4%, in the Constitutional Legal Commission have 2 members, 9 to 22.2%, so identical maltene. DF, SDS, PDP and SDP have all 4 in the House, that's about 10%, in the Constitutional Legal Commission they all have one, that's 11.1%, again identical. In the case of HDZ, the HDZ Club...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8049	Wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut, and time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8050	Let me just finish, 5 out of 42, that's 11%, 2 out of 9 in the Constitutional Legal Commission, that's 22%, that's double. This violates the business provision on the proportionality of membership in commissions. And that's why we have these problems, I talked about it at the beginning of the term of office, and these problems will remain until the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8051	Mr. Dženan Đonlagić, guilty of allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8052	I thank the chairman. In the part of Agent Lovrinović's discussion when he mentioned the opinion, the need for the opinion of the Public Procurement Agency, so I would like to say that the Director of the Public Procurement Agency was present at the Commission's meeting on finance and budget and where he positively assessed this proposal and expressed support for the solutions offered in this Bill proposal. I don't know if he was invited, whether he was present at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, but I am giving the illustrations for example that he was present at a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission, before the Agency also supported the Finance Commission and supported the majority of the votes in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8053	No more reported, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, guilty allegation. Call in on time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8054	Mr. Arnaut, therefore only, although it is not a subject, he has repeated the percentage several times. Proportional representation, it actually refers to a complete composition of commissions within the parliamentary majority of the House. So, not on one committee, it doesn't indicate that we're not in any commission at all. Therefore, it is a matter of the parliamentary majority of the colleges to agree and I don't know what the constant mathematics of the barata belongs to us and doesn't belong to us. And if so, so when you claim to be doing something against the business this House has appointed... a commission against the law, unlawfully appointed him, therefore, and to no one, nothing. I'm... we're looking for a solution at every session to undo that decision, because it's unlawfully appointed. Not anti-business, illegally appointed and nothing. That's what you've been involved in. Thank you very much, 39.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8055	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing and point six. Point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs Borjana Krišto, Darijana Filipović, Alma Čolo, Nada Mladina and Edita Đapo, issue: 01-02-1-1408/20, since 09.07.20120, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector in the seventh month. The College has determined that the Joint Committee on Human Rights is considering this proposal. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion and found that the draft law is in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Constitutional Commission of the People's House, since it is the Joint Commission, delivered its opinion. The Commission found that the draft law is in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion. The Commission did not accept the principles of the bill. I am opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate when it comes to point seven. Point eight, Ad. 8. Report by the Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the achievement of the identical text of the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, from 09.08.2017 and 27.09.2017)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8064	I thank the Honorable Chairman. In February of this year, we discussed two reports on the work of the Council of Ministers, which are reports for 2017 and 2018. I, at that time, concluded by comparing the data from these two reports that the results of the work, given the number of sessions held, the number of agendas, the number of conclusions adopted and the draft laws established, are below each level, and that the disastrously poor results of the Council of Ministers' work are during this reporting period, i.e. they are very defeating the results of the work, given that Bosnia and Herzegovina predicates to be a full member of the European Union. When I read the first page of this report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2019, then I realized that it could always be worse and could always be worse. The Council of Ministers established only three draft laws during the reporting period. Today, a colleague named Arnaut spoke of this through parliamentary questions. All year long, only three bill proposals. Here, at today's session on the agenda are four draft laws proposed by MPs and MPs, i.e. representatives' clubs. Therefore, only at today's session of MPs and MPs, i.e. representatives' clubs propose more laws than established by the Council of Ministers in 2019. When I compared the legislative activities of the Council of 42 BiH ministers in the earlier period, I concluded that there were no more significant legislative activities of the Council of Ministers in the past years. The situation is this: in 2013, the Council of Ministers established 30 draft laws; 2014. — 20; 2015. — 30; 2016. — 25; 2017. — 28; 2018. — 9 and 2019. - 3. As we can see, the situation has deteriorated significantly over the past two years, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers is proposing fewer and fewer laws. For seven years, from 2013 to 2019, the Council of Ministers established 145 laws, on average 21 laws in one year. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted about 200 laws in one year. It is obvious from the above data that the BiH Council of Ministers is one of the few governments in the region that is hateful to adopt and propose laws, i.e. to do a basic task from its work round. This is, in my opinion, a truly devastating knowledge. On the other side of this report, it is interesting how the Council of Ministers sees and assesses its work for 2019. I will not quote but the Council of Ministers argues that they continued to work on progress in all processes in 2019, with a special reference to socio-economic reforms, and that the results were achieved thanks to the Council of Ministers' full and consistent work. In my court, this is only well written, because in particular this claim is not supported by anything, no socio-economic reforms were mentioned in 2019, no indicators are visible to justify this progress made in these claims. Of course, we are looking for justification in an unfavourable political environment. And so it was honest and should have been written in this report. Why embellish the situation when she's not like that? The results of the Council of Ministers' work in 2019, so we can say, they weren't, they couldn't have been better because the political environment was like that. The election results were to be implemented for a year, namely the appointment of a new Council of Minsitarians. So it should have been written, not twisted the picture. So I propose that this part be corrected and written as it was – due to the irresponsibility and inability of the new majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly after the General Elections held in 2018 that it was timely to appoint a new composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, the current Council of Ministers carried out and carried out only the ongoing tasks necessary for the minimum functioning and maintenance of the work of state bodies and institutions. That's what it was supposed to look like to me, because that's the truth. The work of the Council of Ministers in 2019 also speaks well enough of the report on the laws planned by the Council of Ministers' Annual Work Framework. This is part of the Report from 191 to 203 where from the planned 46 laws only two were adopted on the Council of Ministers and 44...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8065	Time, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8066	Not adopted, i.e. in column 5 44 of the replies are no or not adopted. The implementation of the Council of Ministers' legislative plan in 2019 is 4.3%. I'm sorry, Chairman, but I think you're following the clock wrong, it hasn't been 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8067	Time, you have on your monitor red. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8068	Well, then, I had a lot to say, I think it was important to hear some positive things from this report, but, of course, these positive things are not the result of the work of the Council of Ministers in 2019, but they are the result of the work of the real sector to which attention is paid at least in this report, or not at all. So, what is good and positive was that there was an increase in income in the Single Account and in 2019 compared to working years, to 2018. What is not good, you did not realise the projects of public investment planned by the Council of Ministers in 2019. So in 111 projects, only 19 were implemented, and 92 projects were not implemented at all. It's also good that we have an increase in oil toll revenue and oil derivatives, but we don't have any information on where the funds are spent by tolls. So I will propose one conclusion: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver within 30 days for consideration of the House of Representatives' report on the state and cost of the toll toll and oil derivatives for the period from 2017 to 2019. The report should be drawn up for each year of that period, and the same should include a list of projects for which the financial resources have been spent, with the individual value of each project, as well as the total cost of financial resources, i.e. the state of the total revenue collected from oil toll and oil derivatives during the reporting period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8069	Thank you. You spoke, here, nine minutes, and five minutes is a debate. Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8070	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A few words, a very brief review in these five minutes I will try to give to this report that is before us. I think it was and said colleague Emrić, I won't repeat myself, this report... The Council of Ministers is in some past term, let's say which one we're including in '19, an example of how we shouldn't. So, we have had one year of certainty in every respect, and especially in terms of political and... stability and trust, necessary stability and trust in this country, wasted, wasted time... the time of violated relations from unknowns still, or well-known reasons of political nature, which in the most direct way reflected in the lack of respect for democratic principles, disrespect of electoral will, and, of course and naturally, led to instability of institutions and congestion in all processes... we really hope that, for the benefit of all our peoples and citizens, we will finally come out. To point out this Council of Ministers, which has, since 2019, not had support in the House of Representatives for many years, nor in this '19. And I'm not worried about, uh, so much that there were too many or such and such legal proposals, I'm worried and I'm worried about every time through any model trying to ignore the will of the citizens of Republika Srpska who then... to some bad solutions shown in this report. So, I have noticed on concrete material that it had to be looked at here in the report that this technical mandate was, truly legally possible but completely inappropriate to bear in mind 44 that a broken Article 9. The Council of Ministers Act and that it is not chaired by the Council of Ministers appointed in the law of the intended term of office (?). As for a few references to the data given to individual ministries, I'll say a few words about the Foreign Ministry. They stressed that they participated in the work of the Commission for NATO integration process but I think they correctly transferred in one part that the Reform Programme was adopted at the end of the year. And that's the only mention of that document in the entire report... there are over 300, 400 pages. It's okay. However, what we all love, this, is to look at the laws because they are our object of interest as MPs, I think it is problematic in this past Council of Ministers' meeting, which has not been adopted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, for example, has not been adopted either by the adoption and procedure or by the Regulation on the issue of short-term visas and airport transit visas, nor by the rules on issuing visas for long-term stay, nor by the decision on visas, nor by a list of foreign travel documents and documents recognised by Bosnia and Herzegovina, with which foreigners can cross the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor by means of a manual on handling the issue of visas and... foreign nationals. I mention all of these documents which are, therefore, operational character and were possible to bring regardless of the congregation's majority or majority, etc. I think it's a major neglect of major problems which are why we and as a state are subject to any interest, but unfortunately, I don't know what to call it, that certain processes concerning the issue of visas to foreign citizens are subject to and investigative authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Next thing I know, in the section reported by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, there's a lie. Naima, page 55 of this Report, states that according to the requirements of the Istanbul Convention, a Monitoring and Implementation and Reporting Committee was established under the Istanbul Convention and Femicide in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a lie. So, in Article 10. The Convention, signed by both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, states that there must be a coordinating body to monitor, analyse policies and monitor reporting, but that, in the explanation and clarification of those provisions in the same document, I quote, that such a body is recommended for, or is recommended to be recommended in federal or complex state communities, that there are several bodies and that those bodies, uh, of course, be co-ordinated, but it is strictly recommended that it be established at the level of a member who is responsible for implementing the measures. As we have taken measures to combat, the prevention of violence against women is solely the responsibility of entities, so it is completely and unnecessary, by also bringing in the mistrust and unrest, it has gone into this initiative, this Committee has been established. Unfortunately, ministers from the Council of Ministers who were then from Republika Srpska voted for this solution. And in this Committee, which is not even presently, I have watched the Decision, there is no limited mandate, etc., there is not a single representative of Republika Srpska nor will it be because, I repeat, the Istanbul Convention has clearly located where they should be and how to form these co-ordination bodies and who, at the very end of the line, can deliver those data at all. I recommend that the future be modelled by the Management Board to monitor the implementation of the Gender Action Plan, consisting of two presidents, two directors of the Gender Centre of the Federation and Republika Srpska's future co-ordinate and such or similar activities. I have a statement on page 61 regarding the Department of Justice, and there's a term here, and I don't think it's anywhere, which, under quotes, is a federal prison. I don't think there's any such institutions here, there's no state strategy, God, a state prison. And, uh, I have to point out, unfortunately, last year this activity was not, it wasn't realized, and as far as the European pathway is concerned, no war crime case resolution strategy has been adopted. 45 So there is a lot of data here, a lot of bad information, but the worst thing that happened last year is that this important institution, whether it functioned without legitimacy, and also the real democratic that it needed to make things happen in the desired way and lead us towards a European path. I've got more of that, but here, I hope I fit in in in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8071	Thank you. No more reports. I am concluding the debate on the Ministerial Council's work report. It's a 60-minute break. [[PAUZA]] I ask the MPs to take their seats, we continue our work. Point 14, Ad. 14. Review of BHRT's materials: a. Report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1503/20, of 23.07.20120 and b. Programme plans and financial plan BHRT for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1031/20, of 29.05.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8075	... Chairman, I was thinking that, uh, I would suggest a few conclusions, I would suggest two, and one will give up on him, to suggest that the material be delivered to Mr. Bakir Izetbegović to read how the Hrvat are represented, here it is finely shown to him, so for example. So in Sarajevo, 17.5% of us were listed in '91. Now 3.4 is employed or to say in Gorazd there, so we have no one, and we have in the House of Peoples representatives of the Croatian people, so he's going to fight to get a job in these institutions. But I've given up that conclusion, so I'm not going to suggest it, but I haven't given up the next two that I'm proposing to adopt. One of them would be the third in these two to be proposed by the Ombudsmans, so the first would be – the above conclusions should be implemented immediately and the longest until 2022. Since it has been found here that the constitutional principle that implies the proportional representation of the constituent peoples is not respected, that is to say, at the end of this report. Another conclusion – The Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution will report on the implementation of the conclusions reached to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, of course by 2022. Because we are, because I predicted that it would end and fix this condition as shown in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8076	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8077	Thank you, Chairman. I would refer to this proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr. Lovrinović and say he thought of Mr. Bakir Izetbegović to deliver this information. I don't know why only Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, perhaps he should have delivered it to Republika Srpska, because the Hrvat in the institutions of Republika Srpska are of over four thousand employees only 1.3%. Then he might have needed Mr. Dodik to deliver that information, not only to Bakir Izetbegović. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8078	Mr. Nenad Stevandić is a regular, parodno Sanja Vulić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8079	Thank you, Chairman. Well, just to inform Mrs. Čolo, the president of Republika Srpska is Mrs. Željka Cvijanović, so I think you're at the wrong address.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8080	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8081	Mrs. Čolo, therefore, I did not make a mistake, neither did you when you said what you said in the fact that people are missing there, but at least they are not missing there that they gave us, how much Mr. Izetbegović boasted, because I guess when they see this quiet, and Mr. Izetbegović is missing, and let him look at this report now so let him tell us what he gave us, as he likes to say, under the quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8082	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8083	So as we discuss who sits in the chair, Bakir Izetbegović and Dragan Čović sits in the College of the House of Peoples, so you can tell Dragan Čović to give him this Report or give him something else. The point is that they agreed very easily on the distribution of these chairs without absolutely wanting to do anything about language equality, and here we even saw today from HDZ you didn't want to do anything to allow children to cross the border to go to school in Metkovic, but should go about 14 km across the Doljan. So this story absolutely, so what do you think people are naive to not knowing that Bakir Izetbegović and Dragan Čović are sitting next to each other because they agreed on these chairs on the first day.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8084	Thank you. Nenad Stevandić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8085	Thank you very much. Well, I'd just like to say that this report has been made very professionally and that there is obviously great discrimination in it. However, whenever discrimination is on the agenda, then suddenly some liberal attitudes are taken and then we act as a civil society, and when it comes to others, let's say, the settings then we again call for national membership. Here, discrimination is fundamentally related to nationality, not to some 48 social and other categories, and it is undeniable and it is our shame that we can't, do nothing to fix it, but to say to every people, especially one who is currently at some stage of compromise or to say excess function, he's trying to make a citizen's liberal story out of all of this. As far as Republika Srpska is concerned, there is no such discrimination as is defined here by this report, not even close. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8086	Wrong quote, Mr. Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8087	Well, my correction to the wrong quote concerns what my colleague Arnaut said. Already in the media, he boasted that he was taking care of the children of Gablea Polje, and that is what the HDZ is obstructing. For his information, his initiative will not help those children, but will do what the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs has already done, and the Croatian Foreign Ministry has told him, that it proposes that Bosnia and Herzegovina should all cross the border in accordance with the mutual agreement and is now waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina to open the border crossing so that these children can go to school without any problem. So what was really to be done, he took over and now he's a ball on Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent authorities to finish the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8088	Mr. Arnat, he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8089	Mr. Kožul has just confirmed that he is waiting, and he is waiting, so the Council of Ministers sitting in your staff, but still doesn't explain why you're voting against an initiative that is in the children's interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8090	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8091	Thank you, Chairman. I'm afraid this report is not a dead letter on paper, the report shows that there is no respect for the constitutional principle of proportionate representation of the constituent peoples and others at all levels of government, of the state, through entities and cantons. So, everywhere we have a sub-representation of a particular national category and of certain peoples. Little do I find these conclusions, which the Ombudsman suggested, somehow seem inconclusive to me, that organ and institution managers are in charge of respecting the principle of proportional representation in the next period. How can they respect that? I can respect certain categories of people from certain institutions will be fired, but that would be contrary to the rules on labour law. So I think this report is pretty good, but it's a set of statistical indicators 49 on the real state of national representation on the ground and the conclusions that are proposed and if we adopt them won't help much to change the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8092	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Lovrinović's correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8093	Well, what Mrs. Čolo was saying, that's why I suggested these two conclusions in which I gave one period of time. Indeed, this problem is, therefore, respecting constitutional provisions and the possibility of conducting a tender procedure, but that is why in that conclusion I suggested, I said that these conclusions are carried out by '22. When conditions are created to receive others, to make sure that water is taken into account and to report how successful it has been and why it has failed. And I hope that fellow Arnaut will now leave, uh, gentlemen from Klix.ba and say he made a mistake, that the border crossings are open as far as Croatia is concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8094	No more reports. I'm closing the discussion on Special Report and item 15. Point 16, Ad. 16. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01.02-04-1-1562/20, since 28.07.20120 The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion and adopted the Report and proposed two of the following conclusions: 1. It requires the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data to the parliamentary procedure by the end of this calendar year. 2. The BiH Council of Ministers is required to give its consent within 60 days to the Agency's Internal Data Protection Agency Regulation, which would allow the Agency to carry out its tasks. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I hereby conclude point 16 or the debate on point 16. Next item 17, Ad. 17. Report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1633/20, dated 10.08.2020, 50
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8097	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, here is a report relating to 2019, and out of jurisdiction, on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission, however, it is important to stress that it has been referred to in the parliamentary procedure by this latest meeting, which, let's say the least, is semi-legal. I will begin by thinking that, having in mind all the circumstances and developments that relate to the selection of several members of the present term are fully reciprocated and what the CEC has given itself, it said in the report as a key value, the rule of law and that the electoral administration will act exclusively under the applicable legislation. They disqualified themselves with this sentence, and all of course they couldn't disqualify some of the key facts that are mentioned in the report, but also the recommendations and other recommendations, given in mind, again, the violation, the direct violation of the Electoral Law in the selection of three, or five members of the current CEC summoning precisely the key value they attach to themselves. I need to say a few words that are mentioned in this report, and it concerns the 2018 electoral process. Otherwise, whenever a more serious public opinion survey is published, at least in Republika Srpska, there goes the moaning and whining about the stolen elections and I don't know what it is. I think it's a good thing and we need to draw attention to a few, again, important analyses that the CEC did in 2019 are a concrete analysis of the invalid ballots. As you could, who read in detail the report in BiH, there were about 5,650 polling stations in 2018, where some 60,000 observers were accredited from different political parties and as it was stated in this report, none of the political entities, of which there were 60,000, made any remarks in the polling post's record regarding the voter's voter count. And I think it's very important for the preservation of the integrity of the elected representatives and for us as representative bodies to point out and point out these facts. Also, I want because of the public in Republika Srpska, which has been bombed continuously by misinformation on irregularities in the electoral process and on the phenomenon, neither do I, what number and how many invalid ballots, should I also point out a few facts from the Report. In fact, once, it seems to me that this once-adequate methodology, the Central Election Commission has conducted an analysis of around 15.5 thousand ballots, where it has found that of those numbers, about 54 belong to the category of blank ballots, about 25%, and about 20% or fifth of the ballots, where two or more political entities are surrounded. I want to point out, because this kind of data absolutely negates everything that's been placed and in the mercy of irregularities or theft, or I don't know what in polling stations even this way. So, keeping in mind the difference that the candidates and Mr Dodik and Mrs Cvijanović made and the lists for the House of Representatives, for the National Assembly, so all of these crossed out and I don't even know what ballots that were invalid would have been added to some other lists and candidates would not have been enough to bring them closer to victory, let alone victory. 51 As far as the recommendations of this semi-legal Central Election Commission are concerned, I think they are in part, in certain parts, scandalous. In fact, out of 32 recommendations, tens of them per content are essentially not, hence the quality and even the content of the processes that are happening there. Namely, we have all these 32 recommendations, so that she, number 430 and 431, analyzes the state of emergency, neither do I, persuasive part of the text, then deals with public procurement, which is certainly not the place in this report and does not belong to the category of recommendations. Next, reassurance of activities concerning strategies and action plans related to the introduction of new technologies into several so-called so-called technologies. We have a recommendation and therefore we have a copying of the text and persuasion of a story related to human resources in the recommendations of 457, 458 and 459. This speaks of an unquality and at all access to the Central Original Commission's affairs that this current council is conducting. However, I draw attention to scandalous disputed recommendations under headings 443, 444, 445 and 446 where this current council wants to obtain absolutely inappropriate competencies such as that, that the idea and intention to ban them, you may think that, the concept of a ban on certification of the name that disturbs voters, by which criteria, and what upsets them is a major issue that does not fall within the scope of these reports and these bodies. Then even to suggest that the party's registration be excluded from court jurisdiction, which is also inappropriate and unacceptable. To introduce binding opinions on the implementation of the electoral law and to revise a three-stage procedure concerning violations of electoral legislation. For the SNSD Club and SNSD, such recommendations are also this report, i.e. the report is as it is and well describes some things that happened in 2019, but again they have, because of these recommendations and because of what the current CEC meeting violates as its own value SNSD has no intention of supporting this Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8098	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8099	Thank you, Chairman. So just by paying attention to the fact that this is about the CEC's 2019 report, this is, therefore, the work of the previous vocation or the largest part of the CEC's composition, and besides, we had a brief report of the Council of Ministers for 2019, it was posted by the current chairman and delivered here, but this is the report of the previous Council of Ministers' Report, so logically that there, everything that Mr. Zvizdić and the ministers did, and so it is also related to the CEC. Don't mix things up, you can freely, anyone, challenge this or some other CEC call, but don't put some things that absolutely don't stand. We're talking about a conference that or, I'd say five members who were in the CEC in 2019. And right now to be absolutely clear, a lot of things I don't like, and I'm not going to vote for these recommendations either, because I think some are good, others aren't good, so you can count on us to have that kind of relationship with this body. But this is about the Central Election Commission that worked in 2019 and their achievements and what they did, and the criticism of this CEC calling can normally be whenever you want, but here I'm talking about something else entirely. That's it, thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8100	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8101	Dear Mr. Šarović, I didn't mix anything, I made a very clear distinction between what the report says and the recommendations it signed, signed by the current so-called. The president of the CEC and I have the impression that you haven't looked at that Izvješt, but that's not the problem. So I didn't mix anything up, maybe you didn't read it right, or maybe you didn't read it at all who signed the recommendations. So again, I repeat the content of the Report is not controversial, it well describes some things and activities that happened in 2019, but the new council that signed the overall report and which signed the recommendations and how controversial it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8102	No more reports. I am concluding the debate on the report on the implementation of the law under the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission and point 17. Point 18, Ad. 18. Report on the Implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-1656/20, since 17.08.2020 The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion and adopted the Report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Here you go. Well, what was it, Mr. Šarović, I saw it, but now it has appeared after the debate was concluded, a false allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8104	No, no, you probably didn't see it, but let's just say that Reverend Novaković made a mistake, no, it's not, it's not about the current CEC chairman, so here's to correct that.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8105	Okay, thank you. Okay, we continue the debate on item 18. So – Revised strategy. Mrs. Ljubica Miljanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8106	Thank you, Chairman. I would point out that this act is not contrary to the positive regulations of Republika Srpska, but would refer here to the provisions of the existing Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons, where the provisions of the BiH Refugees Act are mainly for the free choice of residence in the place of emigration, so it has paid particular attention to only those who have returned, meaning displaced persons and refugees. The realisation of these 53 joint projects, in particular the State project for housing and the realisation of other projects, provides for the so-called “state-of-the-art” project. Social housing, however, is not defined by the existing law. As for the return of displaced persons and refugees to the Report, since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, it has been recorded that more than a million return to BiH accounts for 50% of the total of 2.2 million refugees and displaced persons who have left their homes, which in total numbers of returnees seems 611 000 or 58%, and the return of displaced persons to 451,000 or 42% of refugee returns. As far as the problems of the return Srbin' associations are concerned, particularly in the Neretva valley, in the Herzegova-Neretva canton, in the Western Herzegovina Canton, I was told that only 15 Srbin work in the government of the Herzegova-Neretva canton, where there are ten ministries. Otherwise, about four thousand Srbin returned to Mostar, according to the 2013 census, and before the war there were 20,000 Srbin and 12 thousand who declared themselves Jugosloven, which in some estimates says 30,000 Srbin lived before the war. I particularly stress the warning of the Serb returnee association in Konjic, where about 250 returnees and problems returned to Bradina, where 800 Srbin lived before the war, and now only one family came back to live there. However, a lot of houses have been restored, but their problems are that when they legalise these projects, their houses, their books, they are asked to pay for books of 11 000 converting marks, to bring a building permit, to bring the project by the architect, which was all contained in the refugee return project, and now requires a cash compensation of 1,500 dinars(?). for the project of architects and booklets of smaller units which are a residential area of 7x6 per eleven and several thousand converting marks. I would also draw attention to the fact that the report itself mentioned problems in solving health insurance and providing health care to refugees, and I think that there should also be returnees and there should be special attention, so that the status of the persons who have returned with the persons who have already lived there is equal. And I think that there is still a problem with pensions, so those pensions earned in the Federation of BiH are of course not paid off, while the Health Insurance Fund and the Republika Srpska PIO are damaged to a large extent and should also be regulated by refugees and returnees. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8107	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8108	Thank you. I'll say this report won't and I can't support it for a few of the following reasons. Namely, if you were able to compare 2018 and 2019 you will see that there is no particular difference in the implementation of this Strategy, and this report seems to be quite important for this story to return displaced, refugees, expelled, etc. And it doesn't seem to give me the right picture of the situation on the ground. For example, he speaks in both reports for one year and for another, says – the number of refugees in BiH located outside the country is 17 thousand 690 and something. And watch out for one thing, I'll just tell you on the example of Travnik, so in Travnik it's '93. About 19.5 thousand Hrvat were expelled and I think now there are 22 thousand Hrvat outside 54 Travnik, which means this doesn't say anything. And why isn't she saying anything? Because if you look at the page of the third one from whom they draw, says – The report in addition to the data provided by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry) includes the data provided by the following institutions, so it lists them. I will speak for the example of Central Bosnia, we have the Ministry down there for, has a longer name, but between it and reconstruction and return, so he's not there at all, he's not here at all, nor his views, no local community, no attitudes that have adopted the county governments, congregations etc. Only then would you see the real problem of returning to BiH space. On the other hand, when I speak again to Central Bosnia, or Travnik, for example There's nothing, no reference to what happens when people come back, say '96, '97, '98, '99. So then there's going to be another departure. He's in these tables over there, I've been watching, I hope you're not angry, for the Hrvat the most and I've seen that or in the areas where they come back there's nothing in these few years, ten years, no donations, no investments or very little, that's one answer. Second, for example, Central Bosnia, let me remind you, then, of '97. and '98. The year of the murder of the returnees in Travnik and the police. So that's also what left those clues on the way back, so let's say, specifically in Travnik, there may be such cases in other places. I can't accept this for those reasons and not take up much of your time, because it would be too much to talk about all these tables, I will suggest one conclusion, and it will read: To look for a new report that will be sub-stratted on the basis of reports by the government of entities, the Brcko District and the County that have accepted their congregations. So, if I were to ask such a report, that what they're saying here, then it's confirmed by the bodies that are relevant to this. I think most of the counties have their own Ministry of Reconstruction, they have municipal services, they have municipal departments, and the chiefs have their assistants, they don't have maybe anywhere, and they have somewhere. So none of this is real here, this is based on unfounded data, especially in the Federation, so I will suggest such a single conclusion and only then such a report, in my opinion, can be relevant and valuable attention. Now, I think this is a completely or quite wrong picture of the implementation of this Strategy and that there are no problems in it at all why this is happening and that these are not at all accurate data, and I can't be exact, here, I said for the reasons of those who took them, they're not adequate to deliver them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8109	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8110	I would like to point to several, in my opinion, neural points mentioned here in this information, in the report, which relate to the realization of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Well, it's no wonder that after 25 years of the war, BiH has never declared that it is an agreement on refugees and displaced persons, i.e. Annex VII fully implemented because all authorities in BiH were obliged under this Agreement to ensure such political and economic conditions that would create a coherent reintegration of the population in that territory, without favouring any group. And we have to admit that we haven't done it in all of BiH's territory and here's Annex VII 55 has not yet been implemented and I'm not at all optimistic that in time someone will, in due course, be spent. But I would like something that is, in my opinion, neural and mentioned in this report. It's about, when we talk about this harmonic and reintegration, it means allowing people not only to return, but to have normal living conditions, to have access to employment. Here in the Report some 18-20 pages mentions that in 78 municipalities of Republika Srpska, only 17% of returnees in Republika Srpska have access to employment, only 17% of the working population have jobs. Also, in my opinion, is the neural point of using your tongue. It is also mentioned somewhere on page 18 or 19 that children in elementary schools in Kotor Varoša and Konjević Polje cannot use Bosnian, and here we have heard from this initiative that has been proposed here today, although various appeals have been tried and the Constitutional Court has made one decision in which the use of its language and the appointment of its language has been left to the people who use this language, yet we do not have the possibility of our children using Bosnian language in these municipalities, municipalities in Republika Srpska. That's why I think that somehow, uh, there is, it seems to me, hope that we will ever implement this Strategy and that we will spend Annex VII the way we are in Dayton, how he is in Dayton signed, and that we will ensure a harmonious reintegration of our population without the preference of any particular group and without ethnic homogenisation based on national segregation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8111	No more reports. I am finalising the debate on the implementation of the revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII and point 18. Point 19, Ad. 19. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January - December 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-1678/20, since 24.08.2020 The Finance and Budget Commission delivered the notice, received the information. I'm opening a debate. No, there is Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8113	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I can't really, uh, miss the opportunity to comment on the data presented in this Information on the allocation and use of the budget reserve for 2019, because I think that although it does not refer to some excessive, overall view, compared to the total funds of the BiH budget, the institution does not represent an excessive and significant amount, but very picturesquely, faithfully and in the right way I think it shows the shameful behaviour of the ministers from the SDS and the PDP who, who participated in the work of the previous council of ministers. Namely, when you look at the data and analyze this report is about the amount of about a million and 800 000 that were given to the Council of Ministers to, uh, sort of schedule and out of that total amount, only 230 thousand marks are directed at projects in Republika Srpska and that is true, meaning, without, 40 thousand 56 municipalities of Lopara and 110 thousand municipalities of Sokolac and without any indication of what that money in these two municipalities will be spent on, and it is striking that it is exclusively about municipalities in which it is in the power of the SDS. Of these projects funded in Republika Srpska, it was still given to some water pipeline in the municipality of Eastern Stari Grad, which is commendable, but bearing in mind that Mr. Šarović, also as vice president at the time, and Mr. Crnadak, Mr. Mektić, who were ministers still gave consent to this spending of funds, particularly bad at the distribution of the funds of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, out of six hundred thousand marks, I deliberately left out 20,000 for one athlete and 10,000 for another athlete, to say that these people deserve to be unrelated whether they are from the Federation or Republika Srpska, of the six hundred thousand marks of the budget reserve which are mainly directed towards some religious communities, projects in the fields of culture and sports, etc. No single mark was spent, nor directed at any project in Republika Srpska. I wonder if it is possible that there was not a single cultural... institution, no religious institution, no sportsman or sports collective, no association of farmers or businessmen, no charity or non-governmental organisation that was to be supported by the funds of the budget reserve, which, acting either in the area of Republika Srpska. This is a shame, whoever gave consent, I was ashamed to read this and if it was the price of survival in the government in 2019, these shameful few months, Mr. Šarović is really too low for any further and too high for any further comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8114	Mr. Mirko Šarović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8115	Mrs. Novaković, who's to blame for not entering power in 2019, what are you talking about? Well, you had a chance, you had a parliamentary majority, who was defending you, maybe if it wasn't me or someone else defending you in that? And you had your partners at your disposal and now you're in power, so you can't, you can't pass any laws here, so I told the chairman that he couldn't push anything through here. What are you talking about? And now someone blames you for 2019, we'll see the results for 2019, and then you'll blush here and say or give an argument for something like that and all of what you've said is incorrect. After all, none of the items, so this one doesn't split 1/3 - 1/3, it's about the principle, in some items Republika Srpska got more, in some less, depending on the projects, and now you're pretending to add some figures and you get Republika Srpska just so much. It's absolutely not true what you're talking about, you're fighting for your positions in the Council of Ministers, and there's no need for you to blush for someone, you're blushing for what's gonna happen in 2020, and then we're going to question you for something like that, and now you're taking advantage of what happened a year and a half ago and you're talking about things that unknown and you're giving lessons about what you should have done and some plumbing and I don't know what was in Loparas. Besides, you should be interested in what was in the Loparas, it was someone else's interest, but you'll show what you should be interested in when it comes. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8116	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8117	Well, here, Mr. Šarović, you didn't seem to have read this report either, but that's your problem and you've proven again that you're a great master... and avoiding answers. So I've analyzed 57 of the data presented in the concrete Inframation on the distribution of the use of budget reserves, what I can add, read, I think it's my advantage. The fact that you, as you were acting, were told by the best voters, and as you survived, I tried to give a small representation of the possible answer why and how you survived even though you knew very well, what your position was and how many of you people rated you and evaluated you in the elections in 2014 and 2018. As you have done so and done so, I return again to the Information on the distribution and use of funds of the current 2019 budget reserve which has shown and shown once again in a very clear way your concern for the interests of Republika Srpska and at what level it has been, and at what level is something that we call political behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8118	Correction of the wrong quote, Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8119	Novaković, as you came to the Council of Ministers and did not come immediately after the general elections, so do not blame the SDS and the PDP, who you are guilty of such a thing. So as you're working with, in this parliamentary majority, so you're aware, you're talking about 2019, look at the results of my work in five years, and we'll compare it to the ones you're talking about now, who's never here in these parliamentary benches, who haven't done anything. Then will you criticize them? And now you mention that you didn't breathe maybe in January or February of the month, so you didn't come, we should have given it to you on the plate. Well, you did it, so what did you do for this year?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8120	Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, I remind you that...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8121	Again, let me just go back...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8122	We're talking about the funds of the current budget reserve.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8123	There is no topic here, the topic has allocated funds to the budget reserve.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8124	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8125	Mr. Šarović and you have not said a single word about why and how it happened to you as deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers to make this happen to you. Of course, you don't have an answer to that and that's your problem, and how and who will answer who, I think the best place and time is the election, and you better not talk about how you're going to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8126	You have no more right, Mr. Šarović. You have no more wrong allegations in the Rules of Procedure. It's been twice. 58 Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8127	Well, I'm really reading this report I didn't weigh, so, where and to whom and which entity has more or less funds and who has given less or more to this or that, but what I want to say about this report is that I consider that a large portion of the funds has not been spent in accordance with Article 17. The law on the financing of BiH institutions, which says -- that the budget reserve is spent on financing emergency and emergency expenditure and programmes not included in the budget, the cost of international disputes and arbitration with non-profit organisations and the financing of new institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So by looking and reading, so, the report we see, let's say, that they were given, that the funds were spent on current expenditure, for this state prison that here is going to be operating now, for which loans, water, religious institutions are very much resources, and then to some municipalities, so it doesn't matter who they are and what entity they are in, but at least here it's not said for what purpose they are given, it's just said that the funds are given to the municipalities. So, and to me, I think I'm going to vote against the report because of the fact that I don't think the funds have been spent in accordance with the law, and I'm particularly interested in this Christmas reunion of 20.000,00 KM. So, from what means are such events financed in the first place? So 20 thousand marks are cut off, I don't think it's either for emergency and emergency expenses or for international disputes, etc. So none of this, this purpose that is stated in the law, so it's not about having a Christmas party, it's about giving money in a situation like this at all. So anyway, I don't think this report is acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8128	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on item 19. Point 20, Ad. 20. Proposal for a Decision establishing the Ad hoc Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the process of appointing members of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, Proposer: Ministry of Communications and Transport, issue: 01.02-34-1-1583/20, since 30.07.20120 You have received these motions for a decision for the members of the Ad hoc commission: Borjana Krišto, Nermin Mandra MPs in the House of Representatives, Nikola Špirić from the House of Peoples, Davorka Topić prof. dr., Jovan Knežević and Kodrić Kodrić Prof. dr. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Point 21, Ad. 21. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption from the Parliamentary House of BiH, Proposer: College of the Parliamentary House of BiH, 01-50-16-1735/20, of 02.09.20120
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8133	You violate entity representation, you have 2/3 of RS, and 1/3 of the Federation, and the Rules of Procedure are very clear on these issues, 2/3 are named from the Federation, 1/3 from the RS to all commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8134	All right, keep going. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8135	Well, here I hope that colleagues from the ruling parties are really coming to participate in the work of all these committees since we see that no committee has been appointed to any of the opposition parties, so why do I think that would be one kind of correction when it comes to the commission's work, any one, therefore. Since seven members of the Office of Appeals in Sarajevo are also appointed in the course of the procedure, the competition is called against the Public Procurement Act and the anti-resistance Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of Appeals, and therefore, at the outset, I am expressing my doubts about the work of the Commission, because it seems to me that here or in advance it is known who will be adopted or that the conditions, therefore, which are clearly laid down both by the Law and the Regulation, are being amended and that they may be adapted to people with whom, therefore, a prior agreement has been made.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8136	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8137	So here's a member of the 30th chairman, 2/3 members of the Federation's commission, 1/3 of the RS territory, and we've always been very careful and very respectful of this. When we appointed that Interim Affairs Commission, we did a two-phase procedure to ensure that this member of the Rules of Procedure is respected and this can be very easily corrected, therefore, no problem that Mr. Genjac and Mr. Osmanović, uh, have been replaced. Here is enough, so to replace this member of the RS, the Serbian nationality with a member of the Federation's Serbian nationality and will be respected both national and entity representation, so here we have enough MPs from the Federation and that your decision that Mr. Genjac and Mr. Osmanović's replacements can remain in effect I have no problem with that, just means you need to respect entity representation to make a replacement when it comes to a Serb member. It could be Croatian, but unfortunately we don't have any members of the Croatian people. So I don't know, uh, this is definitely necessary to replace, uh, either find a solution now or we're looking for a break to harmonize this with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8138	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate, item 23. Point 24, Ad. 24. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the selection of seven members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Security Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1732-220, since 11.09.20120 The joint college was established by the proposal for a conclusion, which you received, MPs were proposed: Denis Zvizdić, Nenad Stevandić, Nikola Lovrinović. 61 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and point 24. Point 25. Ad. 25. Consideration of the Parliamentary Initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH Official Messenger, No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative that the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Justice, prepares a new text of the Law on the resolution of the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations," No. 01-50-1-1380/20, of 06.07.20120.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8141	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Well, here, you've read the initiative that aims to resolve the recognition of public documents and court rulings from abroad. The existing law has been taken over from the former SFRY and certain provisions are quite outdated. Namely, the law we use today was passed in 1982, and you will agree with me that at global level, and in BiH that there have been large migrations, today we have a lot more marriages with foreigners than there have been, the LGBT population can make marriages in many countries, so many issues that have not been resolved. Yesterday there was a civil servant from the Justice Department who said that this law should not be changed at any cost, because we will not make a better one. To me, I don't know if it's funny or devastating, because it shows the fact that we had good lawyers in Tito's day and the courage to pass one of these laws that is still being used today and how many professional services may not be following these current flows. I have also reviewed the law of the Republic of Croatia, they passed amendments to this Law last year, until last year they used this old SFRJ law which is undeniably good, but it is obsolete, because the Republic of Croatia has brought its law into line with the seven EU directives and several protocols of the Hague Convention. So, since BiH, whether it is committed and predicated to be an EU member, and we know that 1/3 of the AK applies, is it to law and legal issues, 1/3 to the environment, 1/3 to everything else, I think it is important that the Council of Ministers wakes up a little bit and moves towards law-making and harmonisation, harmonisation or..., is the EU legislative to our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8142	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8143	Thank you. 62 So, I really had to react, and here are other members of the Constitutional Commission, this civil servant, Mr. Sladoje, therefore, neither, I don't remember and I'm not sure that he said that we wouldn't find a better solution, but he said that the existing law has resolved these issues and that there are other colleagues of the Constitutional Commission that should not be brought in this way to resolve these issues, so he said, if I remember correctly, and here are other colleagues of the Constitutional Commission. And that's why we've also asked for one delay and for the proposer to see it with the Ministry, but that's not accepted. The vote was voted on and there, the opinion was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8144	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the hearing and point 25. Point 26, Ad. 26. Consideration of the Parliamentary Initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative – I propose the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to form a Parliamentary Group for Response to HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis, hepatitis and other co-infections", number: 01-50-1-1462/20, since 17.07.20120. The House College was appointed by the Constitutional Legal Commission, the Constitutional Commission did not accept the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing point 26. Point 27, Ad. 27. A review of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), I submit a parliamentary initiative in which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, that within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, it implements Decision 854/2017 of the UN Committee for Combating Tortrum (UNCAT) of August 2019, which is one of the priorities of the European Commission's Opinion on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union”, issue: 01-50-1-1567/20, as of 28.07.20120.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8147	Thank you, Chairman. I have a need, given that the debate at the Human Rights Commission went in the direction that voting for this initiative would actually affect the entity's jurisdiction, because Republika Srpska's entity passed the Law on the rights of torture victims. I would just like to remind Parliament that we are as state bonds of the International Convention on Prevention and Combating Tortrum and other forms of inhumane, humiliating and destructive treatment and punishment, that is the Convention behind '84. And as such, it is an addition to our Constitution in that first annex, aneks Ii along with the Dayton Constitution, along with Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That is, therefore, an additional human rights agreement that must be respected. The Council of Ministers put in the Work Programme legislation this year on the rights of torture victims, however, the Council of Ministers report that we had on the 50th page today, which discusses the Human Rights Ministry's report, says that consultations and consensus on the adoption of state law on the rights of torture victims are still under way. This law must be passed, BiH must adopt it by 14 key EU priorities, we as a state are obliged to provide torture victims with fair and adequate compensation and we are obliged to provide torture victims with full rehabilitation if possible. This is about the victims of torture, these are victims of sexual abuse during the war crimes committed by the UN Committee against Tortrum, the verdict was passed on 22 August last year, and we are as a country obliged to comply with that verdict. So there's no confusion that it's not the jurisdiction of any entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8148	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the hearing and point 27. Point 28, Ad. 28. A review of Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to prepare material and provide the presence of competent members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers and then discuss the European Commission's opinion on the request for membership in the European Union with a special emphasis on the implementation of 14 key priorities set out in this document," issue: 01-50-1704/20, since 25/08.2020 The College has designated it competent to consider the Joint Commission for European Integration, the Joint Commission delivered its opinion. On the proposal from Parliament Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, the Commission adopted the modified initiative, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in co-operation with the Council of Ministers for the next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, are to prepare material and provide the presence of the relevant members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, so that 64 of the House of Representatives gets relevant information and then discuss the measures taken on the basis of the European Commission's Opinion on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union with a special emphasis on the implementation of 14 key priorities set out in this document." I'm opening a debate. The word has Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8150	I thank the chairman. Very briefly, I would first of all like to thank the members of the Joint Commission for European Integrations who unanimously adopted this initiative, and especially colleagues Zvizdić and counterpart Bursać, who through their discussion helped us to come to this formulation that is acceptable to all. The essence of this initiative, although the chairman has read it twice, is that the institutions of Parliament take account of what they did and what who plans to do about implementation, i.e. on the basis of 14 priorities from the EU's opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership. Here you see there, you have had a previous initiative by Čolo, which is one of the measures that should be contained in some action plan, if it exists, we as Parliament don't know maybe, maybe people do, maybe it all exists, but simply Parliament is excluded not only from implementing these 14 measures, but in general from the process of European integration, which is quite the opposite of what the recommendations from Brussels and the opposite of what we feel that Parliament should look like and the role it should have. Here I'm gonna stop, see that the session got some rhythm to end at a normal time, I think we all got along, and here's another thanks to the members of the Joint Commission for European Integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8151	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this initiative and I'm closing the debate. Point 29, Ad. 29. Proposal for the conclusion of MPs Aida Baručija, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, which reads as follows: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of delivering to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for Migration Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period January – August 2020, and that it be discussed with the presence of the managers of all the competent authorities and institutions for migration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-149/20 (link number: 01-50-1-15-12/20), as of 02.09.20120. The item is included in the agenda based on the decision of the Colleges in the extended composition, you've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. jasmin Emrić, come in. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8153	I thank the chairman. Very short to explain the proposal for a conclusion, a group of MPs and deputies gathered around the European Integration Club and security issues, considering the migrant situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, concluded that it is useful and necessary for the Council of Ministers to provide information in the area of migration and asylum for the first seven months of the current year. We have not received this information in the House of Representatives for a long time, and since the situation is very complex and alarming in BiH, we feel that we need to get one full and detailed information about the state of migration and asylum, but we also believe that it is necessary to have a detailed discussion on this information in the House of Representatives, i.e. at the meeting of the House of Representatives, to find the managers of all the competent authorities, agencies and institutions in the field of migration and asylum in order for the debate to be done in detail, in order to have concrete proposals, and that we are all taking part in proposals to resolve this very difficult issue and situation which has been particularly in the northwestern part of BiH for several years in focus, but here is the key institution, as far as we can conclude, insufficiently following migration flows and this should also be the reason to adopt this proposal, and that we finally have one full information.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8154	Thank you. No more reports. Finalising point and debate on point 29. I suggest we bring together the debate on points 30 to 32 because it is about giving consent to ratify the agreement. To decide that, we have to vote. So, we're voting on unifying the debate on points 30 to 32. Prepare the vote for us. Present 34 - for 27, against 1, abstention 6. There is a general, there is an entity majority, a proposal for a united debate has been adopted. Ad. 30. - Ad. Thirty-two. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement The Foreign Affairs Commission delivered its opinion and gave the opinion that the previous conditions had been met. I'm opening a debate on points 30 to 32. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm concluding a debate on all the points of the agenda. A 20-minute delay to prepare for the vote on all points and the conclusions proposed. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8158	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8159	Is there any need to vote again? 19 for, 15 against, no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. Adopted in the second round. If you need to do it again, somebody pick up. You don't have to. We're voting on conclusions. First conclusion: – It is proposed that the BiH Council of Ministers draw up a new methodology for making reports that would be adapted for discussion at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. Present 34 - 24 for, 1 versus, 9 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. It's a consensual conclusion. The second conclusion of Ambassador Emrić, which reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, tasks the Council of Ministers to prepare and submit to the House of Representatives a report on the state and cost of the toll toll and oil derivatives for the period from 2017 to 2019. The report should be drawn up for each year of that period and it should also include a list of projects for which the financial resources have been spent, with the individual value of each project, as well as the total cost of financial resources, i.e. the state of the total revenue collected from oil toll and oil derivatives during the reporting period. There are 34-22 for, against, no, 12 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Mr. Jasmin Emrić's conclusion was adopted. Point 14. – Consideration of BHRT's material management board: a. Report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-1503/20, of 23.07.20120 and 69 b. Programme plans and financial plan BHRT for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1031/20, since 29.05.2020. First we vote on the adoption of the report on the financial operations of BHRT for 2019. Present 34 - 13 for, 15 versus, 6 abstentions. No BHRT Business Report was adopted. Next is the Programme Plans and the financial plan of the BHRT for 2020, which is received to know or possibly not received, which is not very logical, but it is. So we are voting on receiving knowledge: the Programme Plans and the BHRT financial plan for 2020. Present 34 - 15 for, 11 versus, 8 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We're going to the second round. Present 34 - 14 for, 11 against, 9 abstentions. The report was adopted, received, has general, has an entity majority. This is a situation that the secretary warns me that I need to point out that there's no 2/3 against, but I guess everybody knows that. We have two conclusions. The first conclusion is: – BHRT is obliged to draw up a clear annual debt payment plan to the European Broadcasting Union within 30 days and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as a complement to the Financial Report. That's the first conclusion. We're voting separately for one, then for the other. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I can't hear her comment. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8164	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-09-15-0.u8165	It's a very special conclusion. The same result - for 16, versus 17, abstention 1. There's no general majority. Shall we also conclude for the next session? Next time. Okay. Point 19. – Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January - December 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-1678/20, since 24.08.2020. We're voting on receiving information. - 14 for, 13 against, 7 abstentions. Information was not received because there is no entity majority. At the next session, the second round, the College has no consent. Round two. - 13 for, 14 against, 7 abstentions. [[Common discussion]] Information was not received because there is no general majority in the second round. Point 20. – Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Ad hoc Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the procedure for the appointment of members of the Board of the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, Proposer: Ministry of Communications and Transport, issue: 01.02- 34-1-1583/20, since 30.07.20120. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. Should it be recalled that this is the Commission in which Mrs Krišto, Nermin Mandra, Nikola Špirić, Davorka Topić, Jelica Knežica(?(?), Kodrić Kodriæ. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. - 19 for, 13, v, 2 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Point 21. – Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption from the Parliamentary House of BiH, Proposer: College 73 of the Parliamentary House of BiH, 01-50-16-1735/20, from 02.09.20120. We're voting on the adoption of the decision. The Commission proposed as you know and heard already Borjana Krišto, Nenad Stevandić and Halid Genjac. - For 19, against 14, abstention 1. The decision adopted, it has general, it has an entity majority. Point 22. – The selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, one from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, the Report of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to conduct procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency, one from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, issue: 01,02-50-16-1092-5,1/20, since 31.08.2020. We are voting on the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, which are Dženita Ljuca, Ivo Čolak and Mitar Perušić. - For 20, against 13, abstention 1. Decision adopted. Point 23. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the exchange of members of the KRZ branch in Banja Luka and Mostar, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1730-220, since 11.09.20120. Proposed from the House of Representatives: Predrag Kožul, Snježana Bursać-Novaković-Novaković and Adil Osmanović. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. - 23 for, 10, v, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. The proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Point 24. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for the selection of seven members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1732-2/20, since 11.09.20120. We vote on the adoption of a proposal for a conclusion in which, as you know, Denis Zvizdić, Nenad Stevandić and Nikola Lovrinović are proposed. - 20 for, 12, v, 2 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. The proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Point 25. – Consideration of Parliament's initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (BiH Official Messenger, No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative that the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Justice, prepares a new text of the Law on 74 resolution of the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations," issue 01-50-11380/20, since 06.07.20120. We're voting on the adoption of a parliamentary initiative. - For 17, versus 13, abstention 4. There's a general, no entity majority. How about a second lap right now? You got it. We vote in the second round of initiatives. In the second round, for 16, against 13, abstention 5. This time there is both a general and entity majority due to the need for a two-thirds negative attitude, according to the secretary. Point 26. – Consideration of Parliament's initiative, Edita Đapo, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 79/14, 81/15, 91/15 and 78/19), I submit a parliamentary initiative – I propose the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to form a Parliamentary Group for Response to HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis, hepatitis and other co-infections", number: 01-50-1-1462/20, since 17.07.20120. We're voting on the adoption of a parliamentary initiative. - For 18, against 5, abstention 11. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We vote in the second round. - For 19, against 5, abstention 10. The result is the same, but this time it's adopted. He's got a general entity majority. Mrs. Đapo's initiative was adopted. Point 27. – A consideration of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: “It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“Operary Messenger of BiH”, No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), I submit a parliamentary initiative in which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, implements Decision 854/2017 of the UN Committee for Combating Tortrum (UNCAT) of August 2019, within 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, which is one of the priorities of the European Commission's Opinion on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union," issue: 01-50-1-1567/20, since 28.07.20120. We're voting on the adoption of a parliamentary initiative. Of the 34 present – 24 for, 5 against, 5 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. Shall we go now? Let's go straight to the second round? Of the 34 present – 24 for, 6 against, 4 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. A parliamentary initiative by Alma Čolo was adopted. 75 Point 28. – A review of Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“Operary Messenger of BiH”, No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH House of Representatives College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to prepare material and the presence of senior members of the Council of Ministers in order for the House of Representatives to receive relevant information and then discuss the opinion of the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union with a special focus on the implementation of 14 key priorities set out in this document," issue: 01-50-1704/20, since 25/08.2020. We are voting on the adoption of the parliamentary initiative modified. Of the 34 present – 32 for, none against, 2 abstained. An adopted parliamentary initiative. Point 29. – Proposal for the conclusion of the MPs: Aida Baručija, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is to submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period January – August 2020, and to be discussed with the presence of the managers of all the competent authorities and institutions for migration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1749/20 (link number: 01-15-12/20), since 02.09.20120. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 34 present – 28 for, no one against, 6 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? The result is slightly different - 27 for, no one against, 7 abstentions. This time there's both a general and an entity majority. The proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that we unite the vote on points 30. - 32. It's about giving consent to ratify the agreement. We've done it before. We must first vote on whether we will unite the vote on points 30. - 32. We're voting on unification. Of the 34 present - all for. It was unanimously adopted to unite the vote on points 30 to 32. We now vote on granting consent to the agreements referred to in points 30, 31 and 32. Of the 34 present – 33 for, none against, 1 abstention. The data shall be in agreement with the agreements referred to in points 30 to 32. We've exhausted all the points of the agenda. I'm closing the 12th session. 76 I thank you for your effective work. We can't tell you exactly when the next session will be today. Thank you. Session completed at 6:17 p.m.
