ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u975	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you all and open the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. As you can see, our services have made sure today that we are working in conditions of full respect, so the measure of the Cantonal Crisis Headquarters versus the global pandemic, the pandemic of the coronary virus. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers and representatives of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and representatives of international organisations who regularly follow our work. The session is attended by 15 delegates, 5 of whom from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. So there's no absence. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Zoran Tegeltija, sent a notice that he would not be able to attend the 9th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH because of his earlier commitments. As you know in the invitation to the session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session and before the debate on the agenda, will allow delegates to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 9th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure for Asking Delegative Questions in Oral Form, delegate Zlatko Miletić for the Council of Ministers of BiH, Ministry of Finance and Treasury, delegate Denis Bećirović for BiH Prime Minister Zoran Tegelti, delegate Dušanka Majkić for BiH Minister of Justice Josip Grubeša, delegate Mladen Bosić for BiH Council Chairman Zoran Tegelti and delegate Lazar Prodanović for BiH Prime Minister Zoran Tegelti. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and that member of the Council of Ministers to which the issue relates were delivered. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 Now we can start asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give the word to delegate Zlatko Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u976	Before I read the question, let me first welcome you, colleagues and colleagues, to the Council of Ministers, the people of our professional services and the media present. Given the fact that I've been waiting a long time to ask is this question, it's still current today, as before this twenty days ago when I intend to ask, and the question concerns the following. In order to ensure public, timely and transparent distributions of money by the BiH institutions by signing and accepting assistance from the IMF and the European Commission at approximately 1.5 billion, in the context of aiding in the resolution of the effects of the pandemic of the virus, COVID-19, please provide me with information from the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury – Is there any possibility of ensuring access to information for all institutions, at all levels of government in BiH who, by which means is the beneficiary of those funds, in which amount, including all public bodies? So, from the municipalities of the Federation and Republika Srpska, Brcko District, to a total of 143 local communities, other ethnic and cantonal ministries, institutions, bodies, agencies, institutions, administrations, companies, public enterprises, businessmen and all other legal, natural persons, persons, and all in accordance with Article 420 and 25. Law on Access to Information in BiH, "Official Messenger" No. 28/00. To avoid misunderstandings, first of all here I am praying to my colleagues from Republika Srpska, and some of them from the Federation, so my intention is not to centralize in any way and that we are affecting the distribution of that money here. So, the essence of my question, and I highly appreciate and respect and respect Mr. Bevanda, that the Council of Ministers, in relation to the mentioned members of the Law, simply, if they are able, to collect information of this kind. And allow me to chair, and I must say that Mr Nović spoke about this in two, three times, in the light of the provisions of Article 159, and given that in the previous period we had asked various ministries a number of questions from different areas, in accordance with that article we did not get answers to these questions. I'm just gonna concentrate here on two, and I'm not gonna talk about the others, because there's a lot, and we haven't received those answers. And why am I bonding with Mr. Nović, and I think he was right at that point, which is basically, I have such a feeling, but I don't use this time to be popular and to put myself in somebody's populist sense, but really what the citizens are asking me to do, I want to ask certain ministries a question, not in the sense that we would turn out to be a midwife, to be inspecting or overseeing the work of these ministries, but to really draw people's attention to those things that may not be good for them to be fixed. Here's an example, it's also been 30 days, I've had, and it refers to the pandemic – is there a famous coordination body with us and what about the distribution of humanitarian aid, did they ever agree on how to divide this aid? Or the question, let's say, two, President Čović, after our rejection of the initiative concerning amendments to the BiH Criminal Law when it comes to denying genocide and war crimes, I am 3
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u977	Please just consider the time...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u978	I'll finish, half a sentence. I took my right, in 27.01., to his Excellency, I sent this initiative to the High Representative to this day, so if he hates to answer it in writing, I ask him in the next three days, since the 25th anniversary is the marking of genocide in Srebrenica, is that, here is the 11th, if he doesn't hate him even to answer me through the media. Thank you very much, I'd like to ask someone to teach us what to do in cases where we don't get answers to whom to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u979	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u980	Hello to all, here I will give the honourable representative Miletić an oral reply, and I say we will also deliver a written reply when we collect the data. So, we are witnessing the fact that the pandemic of the crown leaves great, devastating consequences on human health and life, but also the inevitable that it is an impact on the economy and the economy and that is too huge, and that its final result can only be the subject of the prognosis and simply no one with 100% certainty can say what the consequences will ultimately be. As difficult as the economic situation may be, it will be even more difficult, I can say that I am satisfied with the fact that we have managed to end everything about the withdrawal of 330m euros from the IMF under the terms of an interest rate of 1.05 grace period of 39 months and that the Council of Ministers has also reached a decision on the allocation of these funds in terms of 61.5 for the Federation of BiH and all ten counties or cantons, 37.5 for Republika Srpska, 1% for the Brcko District. We have done what the Council of Ministers has done to distribute further to the counties or cantons in the Federation and municipalities, both entities or other government users of the entity make decisions on the distribution by the criteria they set according to their own priorities. We have referred your question to the Federation's finance ministries, Brcko and RS districts. Since the issue of European Union macro-economic assistance is also contained in your question, I can only give you information that the negotiations are ongoing. The finance and vault ministry is there, performing a co-ordinating role, and the negotiations are taking part, meaning the Federation, Republika Srpska and Brcko district ministries. As I said, I've sent your question to lower levels of government, and then we'll give you a round answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u981	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u982	Thank you very much, yes. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u983	Delegate Denis Bećirović. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u984	My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija. However, whenever I refer this kind of question, Mr. Tegeltija does not appear at the House of Peoples session, and this is what happened again today. And the question is - What specifically did the Council of Ministers of BiH do with the aim of legal norming compliance with the UN's highest and main judicial authority, the International Court of Justice, as well as the ruling of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia? The International Court of Justice's rulings in 2007 and the International Criminal Tribunal's verdicts for the former Yugoslavia, which have been clearly found to have been genocide against Bošnjak. I expected the prime minister to finally get the strength to come to the session and answer this question. I remind you, I asked this question in January of this year and then Mr. Bevanda, or Mr. Tegeltija, did not come to the meeting to answer. According to the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Špirić, he was obliged when he did not appear at the session to answer this question in writing within 15 days, but he did not. We in BiH, unfortunately, have a brutal denial of international judgments, so I want to remind BiH here publicly is a full member of the UN since 22 May 1992, until today. UN court decisions binding in BiH, those who do not carry out UN Supreme Court rulings violate not only domestic but international law
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u985	Please, just... just in time, when a delegate's question is asked, I apologize, the time has been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u986	And you can't get away from it. I would like my colleague Špirić to, as you have warned in this section of the Rules of Procedure in time, that you should decidently follow the Rules of Procedure, so warn yourself, therefore, of all those members, because as delegates, we cannot exercise our delegate law for six months, because the chairman is running from the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u987	Thank you. Since the chairman is not present here, therefore, you will receive the answer in accordance with Article 157. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u988	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u989	So there's no chairman, 5
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u990	That's his answer, I have the right to respond to the Rules of Procedure and to that kind of answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u991	Are you satisfied with the answer? You're right, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u992	It is clear that, above all, it is an incorrect relationship with the highest legislative authority and it is clear that nothing is done by the Council of Ministers by those who are competent to give BiH the law on the ban on the denial of genocide. With that in mind, three days ahead of the 25th anniversary of genocide, I once again publicly urge Valentin Inck to declare in accordance with his mandate a law prohibiting denial, denial and minimalisation of the committed genocide against Bošnjak. It is the least that the international community can do, if it issued Srebrenica in 1995 as a protected UN zone, there is no reason why such a law would not now propose, declare and at least mitigate the tragic consequences both BiH and Srebrenica have since then.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u993	Thank you very much. At first, I hope I made it clear that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija, has announced and rightly absent from this session. So, I give the word to Delegate Dušanki Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u994	Dear Chairman, honest colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you at the beginning of today's session. My delegate question concerns the failure to adopt revised strategies for the processing of war crimes. It is known to all how long it has been trying to reach this strategy, so a quarter of a century after the war BiH still doesn't have a valid strategy for the processing of war crimes, although we have seen there are some attempts here that want to end this on one side, but I think war crimes must be solved on all sides. In bh. The judiciary is still waiting for 500 unsolved cases with about 4.5 thousand unpunished and well-known perpetrators, and as much as that, so 4.5 thousand cases per unknown perpetrators. Since 2018, the revised strategy has been waiting for adoption, with a deadline for punishing all criminals listed at the end of 2023. Therefore, it provides for, as is known, the punishment for the unhappiness and selectivity of prosecutors and judges, a supervisory authority as a non-selectiver, as well as the transfer of lower judicial institutions to 200 less complex cases to deal with complex cases. What is actually happening with the adoption of this Strategy, which is why it has not been adopted today? Why has Minister Turković, in this meeting and formerly Minister Semiha Borovac, been taking this significant document off the agenda for two years? Who's in the interest of who? I remind you that the OSCE Mission has in due time recommended to the Council of Ministers to adopt it without any further delay of the revised strategy, to appoint without delay this new supervisory body to monitor the implementation of the Strategy and bring it into line with the revised strategy. 6 Also chief prosecutor Gordana Tadić said in mid- 2019 that the OSCE mission in the previous period asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office to transfer 150 less complex cases to the cantonal district prosecutors and the Brcko District Prosecutor's Office. It wasn't done because no strategy was adopted. My question is for Minister Grubeš, I'm really sorry that he's not here today, is, looking for his personal attitude, I know that this attitude could not be obtained from the Council of Ministers, because there will be again the same one who is holding back from adopting the Strategy, will be... the answer to this question. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Justice's personal opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u995	Please take care of the weather, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u996	to answer me – What and how long can this document be expected to be adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u997	Thank you... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u998	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija. In fact, at the time of his entry into office as chairman of the Council of Ministers, he made the following claim in the introduction as one of the basic principles of work of the future Council of Ministers. So, I quote his exposés – Having in mind the slow process of forming power we do not have the right for a hundred days, which had all the newly formed authorities in BiH, which is why immediately after the Council of Ministers has formed, we must unblock the processes in the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, adopt the 2020 budget and put the investment funds at the disposal of entities, completed the quote. Since not a hundred days have passed since then, but seven months and there are obvious blockades and only today we have a 2020 Budget, do you feel that you have any personal responsibility for the never worse functioning of the Council of Ministers of BiH? I don't know if there's anyone authorized to answer that question, since it's personally posted to Mr. Tegeltija.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u999	I am sorry, therefore, the question concerns the chairman, Mr Tegelti himself, and he is not here today and you will receive the answer in accordance with Article 157. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1000	Well, I can guess what the answer is, because this is about the request, about whether there is any mechanism of responsibility here in the functioning of the government, and it's obvious to all of us, we all know that it's a great rarity in BiH for someone to take responsibility for what he's responsible for. Mr. Tegeltija is at the head of the body that, I said today, their 7 document of the Budget to be discussed here in the House of Peoples, I was optimistic, so in my question it will be today, here I now hear that and see that it was removed from the agenda, and today, so we won't get, not even in the next period of the budget. So, there is a continuing blockade of institutions and blockades of government functioning at BiH level. Who is responsible for whether enough responsibility is needed for the people... should show the results of the election. I remind you that under the conditions of such possibilities of manipulation...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1001	Time, I ask you to stick to time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1002	So how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1003	Well, you have business opportunities. It's already broken time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1004	Well, good, I'm still talking for nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1005	Thank you very much. And I think if there's no one who's being addressed the question that we can have simpler answers, that we don't have hypothetical assumptions about what's going to happen in response, we'll see when the answer comes. Thank you very much. I give the word to the delegate Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before my question, I would like to congratulate you on taking over the presidency and thank Mr Dragan Čović for the successful presidency of the House of Peoples under specific conditions. Dear colleagues and fellow delegates, ministers and all others, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH – What is the total estimated value of the customs seized goods stored in the warehouses of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and how much does keeping this goods cost BiH at the annual level? Did the Direct Taxation Authority solve the problem of hijacked motor vehicles, whose number is more than 2,700, and some were taken away in 2000 and inherited from entity customs administrations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1007	I would like to thank my colleague, Prodanović, thank you for your congratulations and for your kind words. You will also receive the answer in accordance with Article 157, given that the chairman is justly absent today, and the question addressed to the chairman, Clegge Tegelti. Are you satisfied? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1008	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1009	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 158(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I would like to inform you that delegate Lazar Prodanović referred two questions to the BiH Council of Ministers in writing, which were forwarded to the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 158 of page 1 and 2. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Also, delegate Lidija Bradara received an answer in writing to the issue at the 7th session of the People's House of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. Is Mrs. Delegate satisfied with her answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1010	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1011	Thank you, Bradar. So, for the 9th session
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1012	You have two at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1013	What's up?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1014	Reported two for discussion...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1015	Yes, we have, therefore, registered for discussion, counterpart Pendeš and Asim Sarajlić. kolegica Pendeš, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1016	Dear President, distinguished envoys and envoys, honored guests. I would only like to warn of Article 159 (2), the reply in writing must be given within 30 days. Given that I have been more than 30 days, means in accordance with Articles 158 and 155 because they have not been able to answer the oral form of the question, I only wish that as soon as possible, in accordance with Article 159(3) and paragraph (4), answers to the question and the question referred to by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that is ten questions that I have not received so far. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1017	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1018	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm getting attached to my colleague, Mrs. Pendeš. Here in 28.05, I asked a written question and received a partial oral answer, but the repeated written question was not yet answered by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, or Mrs Tadić, the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I also delivered to you yesterday an initiative which is a continuation of this issue and I hope that this initiative will be forwarded to the BiH Prosecutor's Office as a continuation of the issue, because I did not get answers. So, my questions were – How many cases, i.e. those marked ‘A’, how many cases, i.e. persons marked ‘A’, have been ordered to suspend the investigation and how many cases, i.e. ‘A’ persons, are currently being investigated, and how many legally convicted persons are “A”? So the shame is that over the past year, the BiH Prosecutor's Office has filed only one indictment against those responsible for the Srebrenica genocide. I would like to remind you that according to the Government Report of the RS entity, which is also some kind of initial recognition of the genocide details, it has been confirmed that more than 25,000 people, most of the members of the Army and the RS Police, were involved in the execution and assistance of the execution of genocide, of which only 47 persons were convicted, accounting for only 0.88%. I call on the BiH Prosecutor's Office to, given the fact that every day there are fewer witnesses and criminals amongst the living, put a full focus on the processing of the Srebrenica genocide culprits, because otherwise they will bear full responsibility for killing more than 8,000 people, not even 100 out of 25,000 participants and accomplices will be prosecuted, causing irrefutable damage to justice and effectively promoting the policy of impunity of crime. Mrs. Tadić gave me a very harsh oral response that day, but I have been waiting almost two months for a written answer to these three specific questions, and they are related to the "A" list and the Rules of the Roman Way, which have been since '96. Through the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and BiH, which has begun to act on war crimes cases, actually push him aside. I ask you to forward this initiative to Ms Tadić, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1019	Consistent with the agenda of the Kolegijum, he would read Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Request of Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. [[no microphone turned on]] Rules of Procedure, number: 02-02-1-1263/20 of 07.07.20120; 3. Report by the Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the achievement of the identical text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2015/17 of 09.08.2017 and 27.09.2017).) material number: 01,02-02-1-2015,2/17 of 26.06.2020; 10 4. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which reads: "According to Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16), I submit a delegation initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers that, no later than six months after the date of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it shall launch concrete activities with the aim of introducing a lower VAT rate for the products of essential consumer consumption, as well as the introduction of taxes on luxury products", number: 02-50-6-2166/19 of 13.12.2019; 5. Denis Becirovic's delegation initiative, which reads: "According to Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16), I submit a delegation initiative in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH that, no later than six months from the day of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, prepares and submits in parliamentary procedure an amendment amending Article VI of the Constitution of BiH (1) The Constitution of BiH has twelve members, of whom the President of the European Court of Human Rights, after consulting the BiH Presidency, elects six members of the Constitutional Court of BiH", issue: 02-50-6-430/20 since 14/0220; 6. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which reads: "According to Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16), I submit a delegation initiative inviting the entity governments to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, no later than 120 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, preparation and parliamentary procedure for the delivery of the amendment to the constitution bh. the entity of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH which would ensure that: 1. all the peoples and citizens in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina are fully equal; 2nd to the Council of the People in bh. Republika Srpska's entity gets the same constitutional jurisdiction as the House of Peoples in Parliament bh. the Federation of BiH entity; 3. to abolish other asymmetric solutions in the constitutions of bh. entity number: 02-50-6-1131/20, 09.06.2020; 7. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the parliamentary delegations (the Official Messenger of BiH, No 4/20); 8. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, Proposer: Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1259/20 of 25.06.2020; 9. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-7-1206/20 since 06.07.20120; 10. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1386/20 since 06.07.20120; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Investment Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, Corridor 5c – construction of the Zenica Highway North – Zepce South, Subdivision 4: Monir – Donja Gracanica, Part 1: Monirak – Vrac (exit from the Zenica tunnel), issue: 01,02-21-1156/20 since 11.06.2020; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the Cross-border Co-operation Programme for Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, between the European Commission, the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-21-1197/20 since 17.06.2020; 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (GGF2 W2 – Public Transport Project Sarajevo, Part 2) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01.02-21-1-1198/20 since 17.06.2020; 11 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Cross-border Co-operation Programme – Montenegro 2018-2020, for 2018, between the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, issue: 01,02-21-1-1199/20 since 17.06.2020; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Hivnica project - regional dump for solid waste) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-21-1219/20 since 19.06.2020; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the "Interreg IPA programme of cross-border co-operation Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro" for the period 2014-2020. (CCI 2014TC1615CB004) under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II), number: 01,02-21-1-1220/20 of 19.06.2020; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Grant (Project of the Blue Water regional water pipeline) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which refers to the investment grant from the AIDS-EBRD II. programme for municipal environment and climate, number: 01,02-21-1-1225/20 since 19.06.2020; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement and the project between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Ecology (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project), and KfW, Frankfurt na Majna, amounting to 10.000,000 euros – Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings, issue: 01.02-21-1227/20 since 19.06.2020. This is a harmonised amended and updated agenda of the College of the People's House which you received, therefore, in writing. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. A colleague called Bećirović for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1020	In line with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, I propose that we add the agenda to today's session with an extremely current issue, I propose, therefore, that we put the item entitled – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the economic and other consequences of the closure of the BiH state border for the citizens of the European Union and for the Bosnian-Herzegovina diaspora. As we were informed, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, informed the public on 30 June that he had introduced reciprocity towards the European Union. I would like to remind you that, almost from the beginning of May of this year, together with counterpart Husagić of the Austrian Social Democratic Party, we have been insisting on opening the border of BiH with all the necessary measures for the citizens of the European Union and for bh. Diaspora. Instead, the Council of Ministers decided to introduce reciprocity towards the European Union. Such a policy is punished bh. diaspora, she was punished bh. The economy, especially the tourism sector in BiH, has been punished. Why, for example, did not the Council of Ministers introduce reciprocity towards Serbia, which has an unauthorized judge, arrests BiH citizen 12
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1021	I ask you, just in writing, give us the agenda point, and we will lead the debate if it becomes an integral part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1022	Don't worry about the chairman, everything is given and in line with the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1023	Well, no, I have to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1024	You're wasting my time. So, did the people of the Council of Ministers think about the economic damage and the political consequences, we should talk about it here today at the House of Peoples session. People should be told that the EU has helped us most in this pandemic and how the Council of Ministers responded to the EU, whether this is an adequate way. The particular question is that someone from the Council of Ministers answers us, any minister, how, in any way and with what resources in BiH can our country compete in reciprocity with the EU? The European Union will have no harm from our decision, but we will have damages and consequences and economic and perhaps political. The worst part is that Tegeltija made that decision a few days after Dodik returned from Moscow. The decision has to do with, above all, having political forces headed by Dodik who want to direct this country towards Euro-Asian integration, not Euro-Union and Euro-Atlantic, and this clearly shows yesterday's recording of Radmanović's speech on a microphone that has been made public. We must not allow it, I do not think it was necessary to make such a decision, but I will stop, I will not open a fundamental debate about it, I propose a point of the agenda, to you, Mr. Chairman, as the Rules of Procedure says, I am delivering it in writing and that indeed here we get that information, not only in the House of Peoples, but the entire public in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1025	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Is anyone else answering for the agenda, related to the agenda debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. And we'll get to the point first of all about my colleague Bećirović's initiative, which I'm getting here in writing. So he suggests that, therefore, in accordance with Article 61. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH", issue: 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16, I propose a new item of the agenda – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the economic and other consequences of the closure of the state border of BiH for the citizens of the European Union and the Bosnian-Herzegovic diaspora. Open up an opportunity to vote. We are pleading, therefore, on the initiative of colleagues Bećirović. So present 14 – for 5, versus 7, abstention 2. We don't have the general majority, we don't have ____________(?) 13 [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1031	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1032	Procedure, okay, we can do it later. So, give us a chance to vote on the procedure. So present 14 – for 13, versus 1, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH - 9 for, vs. 1 abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. So I'm realizing that we've accepted an emergency procedure to amend this law. I'm opening a debate, therefore, about the law. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, I'm checking in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1033	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1034	Miletić, here's your colleague Miletić. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1035	First of all, I apologize to you, the chairman, and I would like to join the congratulations Mr. Prodanović mentioned, so I would like to thank Mr. Čović for his current presidency, and I would like you to have more success in our work and that we are meeting more often. I will really try to be brief in this sense, although I have very serious objections to the content of the Law itself, I want to say two, three things without any irony and perhaps this is an opportunity to congratulate Mr. Čović and Mr. Izetbegović for having come to a solution after all this time, frankly, which will be in the interest of the citizens of all the citizens of Mostar and I think it is very good regardless of the content itself. I've had objections, especially when it comes to this Central Zone or the central part of the city, but in the inability to influence the process more strongly, I won't talk about it, simply so as not to take up time and simply create conditions for the people of Mostar to, if there are local elections, I hope that by the end of this calendar year, they will happen, to give the people of Mostar the opportunity to choose their power. Indeed what I want to ask you, and I see that Mr Špirić probably appeared in that context, so I guess I don't know if I'm right, I'm asking you, especially you two, to have in mind, so we don't have any problems in the future, to include representatives of the Serbian people in those negotiations. Is the City of Mostar as Bosniak and Croatian as it is, it is as Serbian as it is. Not to mention the names of well-known Srbin, from poets, musicians, writers, athletes, who have made good voices about this city around the world. That's one thing. The second thing, public and political officials from Republika Srpska in Mostar remembers occasionally, when they need it for daily political purposes, such as. yesterday, and they don't remember 15 when people from the Federation want to drag the highway or the highway along Blagay and where they want to spread out the little wretches that live in the city of Mostar and their wider surroundings. That is why he would ask you, and this is not the subject of the Election Law, when we are working on making the statutes of the City of Mostar, that the citizens of Serbian nationality in the city, and that you are keeping an eye on other citizens, means all nationalities, or those who do not plead so, so that tomorrow they will not have a problem in Strasbourg or elsewhere, whether the statute is in accordance with the BiH Constitution or not. In any case, to conclude, I will be considering the fact that the citizens of Mostar are asking me in any way to pass this Law and to get an opportunity to go to elections, I will vote for this Law regardless of its content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1036	I thank my colleague Miletić, above all for his kind words and congratulations and for his discussion. And now I'm asking to be announced by my colleague Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1037	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1038	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests. Namely, I think it's good for all the citizens of Mostar that 12 years later, after 12 years, they have the right to plead and to democratically... power the City of Mostar. But twenty and I don't know how many years after Dejton, we have one problem where Srbin are fighting for consistency in certain cantons and of course we will support today, so this Law, but as it was done in the House of Representatives, we propose the same conclusions as it was done in the House of Representatives, they refer to that, of course, that great political activity will be conducted after the elections, when the Statute of Mostar is adopted, and in one conclusion we are looking for, therefore, that all the peoples, the Serbian people, first of all, to elect for constitutionality, and then to participate in the adoption of, therefore, this Statute and to try to build, therefore, an equal position for all constituent peoples and all citizens of Mostar. And the other thing is, where Srbin are not a constituent people, and there are three cantons, that the constitutional consistency of the Serbian people is provided by the elections, and in that sense, here I will read. First conclusion, therefore, in accordance with Article 72. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which reads: 1. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly recommends the Mostar City Assembly in a new invitation to include representatives of all constituent and other peoples in BiH in the process of drawing up the new Statute so as to ensure through the adoption of the new Statute the mechanisms for making and implementing decisions of the interests of all the citizens of Mostar. And of course this conclusion came after our talks with, therefore, different NGOs, representatives of political parties whose representatives are Srbin, so that this conclusion should be adopted. 16 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH sees it necessary for the congregations of the Herzegovina-Neretva, Posavsky and Western Herzegovina canton until the day of the upcoming local elections in BiH to adopt amendments to the Constitution towards ensuring the consistency of all peoples and on the territory of these cantons. Thank you very much, I hope these conclusions will get support. Thank you very much. A colleague called Bećirović for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1039	Thank you. I'm going to say in the shortest possible terms about this amendment and the addition of the Electoral Law. Or I'll explain why I voted against both emergency procedures and against the motion itself. First I want to say that I am against a political model that is inauguration in Mostar, I don't think it's good for BiH. I'm against the political recipe, which is on stage, for example Mostar and which, in my deep opinion, is anti-European. I am opposed to the political approach to this problem, because I think it is not a good solution for these issues to be addressed by two political parties, however political parties, and that this proposal only comes as a flow water heater here in the Parliamentary Assembly. I am against the political content of this Law and ultimately against the political direction of movement itself, because these solutions are not the direction towards moving towards EU values and values based on our future NATO membership. Mostar belongs and should belong and has always belonged for centuries to both Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin and Jevrej and to all citizens of that city, it has always been a cosmopolitan city and every well-intentioned politician is certainly looking for a unique Mostar, seeking multiethnic Mostar and for the full equality of all citizens and peoples. However, when we talk about equality, it cannot be partially resolved in BiH, we must have consistent, principled, consistent views in this country. Here, my colleague Špirić spoke before me about the rights of Srbin in Mostar, and I think that there is a need to protect the rights of Srbin in Mostar, as well as the rights of both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and others throughout BiH. So here's today's proposal for an initiative that says to launch activities to eliminate asymmetric solutions. It is incorrect, unconsistent, if you are seeking rights in one part of BiH, and in another part of BiH you are obstructing and blocking the rights of other citizens and peoples. That is why it is necessary to regulate this properly in both Bosnian Herzegovina entities. Personally, I think that this concept has distanced BiH from the organisation and Mostar and BiH as a civil democratic society, and I think it has in some way strengthened further national political representation in BiH, which is not good for the simple reason that we have a hypersensible system in general in BiH when it comes to collective rights and a hypersensible system when it comes to civil rights. We will have to look for a balance between national and civil in the future and that is definitely the future of BiH. I think things like this should be discussed in BiH institutions, the BiH Parliament, etc. that there should have been a solution, and not at some inter-party meetings, and then only to have most MPs or delegates vote these things here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. One of the representatives of the international community said this is a holiday of democracy, I don't think this has a lot of touch points with democracy, this can only be a holiday of ethnocrat, and when it comes to democracy, we will obviously have to wait for it in BiH. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1040	I thank my colleague Bećirović. The word has Mr Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1041	Thank you very much. So here I have answered the word, sure... our club has its own suggestions about some conclusions here, but it is about Mostar, and as I was born downstairs and live, then this involvement together with my colleague Izetbegović and our associates to come to a solution, ask me to say a few words from this pay phone. The fact is that we can outsmart ourselves about BiH's structure, but the framework for our behaviour is aneks IV Dejton, the Constitution of BiH, and it is until there is another two-thirds majority agreed, and it, with very clear explanations and decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, has defined BiH as a community of three constituent peoples, the equal constituent peoples of Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin and all other citizens of BiH, and that is something that we have tried through solutions, as a compromise, to offer. Yesterday at the House of Representatives, it passed and I am convinced that it will pass here today and what is most important we will get the opportunity for the Mostar elections to be organised together with the local elections in BiH and therefore it seems to me that it is important that it be today, because then some deadlines run from 150 or how many days when this is formally official, that it can be organised all together. We will try to make the same comment earlier on through one question, not directly to this, but I have time to tell my colleagues, Bosić, I think that we will end up with the next week in the House of Representatives having a budget adopted in both readings, and 21 in the House of Nations through both readings adopted and the BiH budget. This will create all the preconditions that need to be created. The truth goes slowly, as it went around Mostar, you see how much we skipped election cycles in Mostar, to finally come up with one solution. Personally, when I talk about a solution to the City of Mostar, Mostar and today, and yesterday when we talked, I saw as well as every other unit of local self-government, or administration in BiH, without any difference, and now we're out of line with how we made the standard... for the City Council in Mostar, I personally think that a similar or the same standard should be in every municipality and city around BiH and I am convinced that today our club will define something through a specific conclusion. Oversmarting the City of Mostar, I think it's high time it stopped for any purpose, political or otherwise. Making different solutions in the parliamentary procedure or through the meeting of some other political institutions or more parties could be, so we had dozens of attempts both at BiH and BiH level, various attempts to play, even if we were to pass laws on the City of Mostar at Federation level, looking for different parliamentary majority within the Federation to do so, in order to make a case out of the City of Mostar. This is getting out of it all, giving Mostar the chance to have his City Council, to have the mayor elected and to protect exactly the minimum and maximum interest quotas of three constituent peoples and all others. And what we've introduced as one principle, it's written there, at least 15, and at least 4, so we're not... any constitutive people, but it's a framework within which mandates can be distributed. Depending on the quality of political work or any kind of political action within any municipality, city or city or city of Mostar. 18 This will allow the City of Mostar to develop rapidly, this will allow us to go through Mostar,... to pass through the City of Mostar, thank Bog, that there will be those who will be in some way threatened with their property, but I deeply believe that again with all other confesions we will be able to stand at the atmosphere from the Prenj tunnel, where we are now talking, and to those contracted and carried out works on Corridor 5c, and now they have come from a merger point with the Republic of Croatia to the Mostar airport to be completed in two, three years, so that we get one modern infrastructure and through Hercegovina we will, in particular, have fought for the last six or seven years, because there was a desire of frequent force called proboscan, to stop the process completely in this area, very openly speaking of which is the time behind us. And I hope that it is far behind us and that with this today's adoption of this solution, we have given the legal framework a chance yesterday at the House of Representatives to have everyone say what I think about this, as we have today in the House of Peoples had a chance for everyone to say what they have to say about this legal solution. But I thank all those who took part in the search for a solution that we today have amendments to the Law for the City of Mostar, which we have created an ambience so that we can implement the election procedure and get the City Council, which has been gone for a long time. I am convinced that we will find that reflection of multiethnicity, multiculturality in Mostar in full, because we need it, as we want to do in every other unit of local self-government where we have a chance of doing something like that and where our population structure is still that way. Unfortunately, the environments are as rare as Mostar, where we can say and point out that we have preserved... multiethnicity. I would also like us and Tuzla to, say, have minimum, maximum quotas, drop to solve the issue and Tuzle as a modern multiethnic city that has one of its own European and every other future. This is Tuzla just as an example, nothing more, is it, that we will probably encourage all residents of our areas, including Tuzla Canton, olive canton of salt, to remain there both Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak, to live together again according to aneks IV or the Constitution of BiH. So, I didn't come out here to be proud of our commitment to our European path, the club that I represent, to present some other elements that don't touch this point of the agenda, but to shut up one special moment, which is amendments to the Electoral Law when it comes to the City of Mostar, would be irresponsible to my position and I will continue to do everything to make Mostar a modern city, open to everyone, with restrictions to anyone, according to any, modern city in which we need to invest much more, invest than we have invested with all levels of government and from the level of BiH and from the Federation, especially the Federation. And I am sure that, also when this conclusion is proposed by fellow Špirić, we will create all the preconditions that this conclusion will also be realised in the acceptable time and when it comes to the Federation of BiH's space in which it has not been done before. Here I will invite you today that, with all these conclusions that we will adopt or not adopt, we today adopt these amendments to the Election Law so that, in reasonable time, in accordance with the BiH Election Law, we have the Central Election Commission... this Law, which can make decisions that are legal and that we can resolve the issue of financing the electoral cycle and can organise local elections as soon as possible, but I say in accordance with the Law, above all, in accordance with the Law, because this is not the case, and I will stress it several times, because one of our homes has brutally violated the Election Law, and when it comes to the principles and trends of the election of those who should follow the electoral cycle. We must speak clearly about it here, so when we establish the rule of law, I am sure that then we will understand much, much better, and what I often say, our every patriotism be dedicated to the Constitution and to respecting that Constitution, then we will be successful as a community. Thank you very much for your attention. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1042	I thank my colleague, Čović. Mr Denis Bećirović came forward to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1043	I would only like to tell my colleagues Čović that whenever he mentions the City of Tuzla in any context, he always does so with due respect and respect, because there is a reason. When you mention Tuzla, I would like first to remind you to look at the BiH census, including in the City of Tuzla from 1991 and 2013, and if you look at it, you will first notice that Tuzla is the second or third city in BiH by the number of Hrvat in absolute amount. Then you will notice that the percentage of Hrvat was in 1991, that in the City of Tuzla there are approximately one or two ups, downs and todays, and at the same time look at the percentage of Bošnjak where HDZ ruled. So, a colleague of Čović's about Tuzla when you speak, you speak only in a way that is one bright example of how one multiethnic environment is preserved, how it develops, how it defends the rights of all citizens and peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1044	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1045	Well, I wouldn't mention it, but it's the wrong quote of yours, so I have to point it out like this, otherwise I really wouldn't, I'm talking to everyone. I mentioned to Tuzla only for one reason, as an example, and I respect the desire to maintain what you are saying in Tuzla, but I will draw your attention that today in Tuzla you do not have any Hrvat on any duty, on cantonal or city level, or municipal level, not one single Hrvat, in education, in health care, in public institutions. Through this you should show, so it's just playing games of some, as it's often done in politics, that it really is for a town to be praised, here's that structure in an absolute or relative amount of one, another or third people, it doesn't matter. So, a practical example speaks enough of what policy Tuzla leads at the municipal, or cantonal level and there is nothing to add, but to take numbers, statistics and stop and shut up and there is no light at all, it is total darkness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1046	I thank my colleague, Čović. Correction of the wrong quote by Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1047	Well, I'm sorry that my colleague Čović is completely misinformed, so he needs to be well-intentioned to start with some basic facts. First, distinguish the city government in Tuzla from the cantonal government, not being at Canton level, that's what you discuss with coalition partners. When it comes to the city administration, you must first know that in every local election 20 Hrvat enter the City Council, there are also in the city administration, but not from the HDZ, but in this case from the SDP. So you realize that in Tula, most Hrvat are in the SDP, not the HDZ, and that we have reason to be proud of such an ambience, of what world recognitions are when it comes to the City of Tuzla, and you think about what they are, what grades they are, and what judgments they are in The Hague, from the UZP and beyond. So that darkness that you mention, you'd better treat it self-critically, and leave Tuzla alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1048	If I can only make one suggestion, I can see that there has been enough to correct the wrong allegations, to devote ourselves to the agenda point, it is – Amendments to the Election Law regarding Mostar. I don't think these replicas are gonna help us, but they can only condition that others get involved in replicas, and that we go all the way from the subject, I'm asking you not to do that. So Amir Fazlić came forward to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1049	Mr. Chairman, I will truly honor your suggestion and be very brief. Since I have worked together for years to form power in Tuzla Canton, I must say that the relationship of Bošnjak, Hrvat, is never seen in which party, in the Tzla canton, has always been an example. We really cooperated with both fur functions through other visions and cultures and everything else, so some findings don't stand. The fact that now, not to enter, that we do not disturb the importance of this Law around Mostar when it comes to the adoption of this Law today and that we are not distracting ourselves, but we might find examples and we have a decision of the Constitutional Court to fix some things about the government, because the current coalition that is headed may have dropped one position, but in some long positions we have done so. So I can say, here is my colleague Krešić, who has worked with me for years, and they've been relations for example, let him deny me if he isn't, if something is a little bit disturbed right now, that we don't go into reasons, it will certainly be fixed, but let us also in some other environments where the Hrvat are, where they behave through HDZ, we fix these things. I'm not looking for the ultimate, but I mean, the entire Tuzla Canton is one example of one common, one common good relationship between Hrvat and Bošnjak. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1050	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1051	Thank you. I only answered to correct one false allegation, Mr. Bećirović. I think we here must speak first of all the truth, so no matter what truth it was or who liked it or not, when it was talking about the percentage of Hrvat representation in certain parts. Mr. Bećirović, you should know it was '91. There were more than 46 thousand Hrvat in Tuzlan County, in that area, today there are 23 of them, so half of the Hrvat are not in that County, just so much. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1052	I thank my colleague, Čolak. Correction of the wrong quote, too, Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1053	Thank you. I would like to refer to Mr Bećirović's statements on two grounds, about the darkness, where HDZ is in power. I come from the municipality of Knights and no one, when it comes to Bošnjak, can say that HDZ in the Municipality of Knights has done everything since the rebuilding of houses, the return of Bošnjak, etc. As far as LNG is concerned, I did not know that you are an expert in constitutional law, or criminal law, and that you are an expert in Hague judgments, and Hrvat ask you to link your own initiative at the beginning of this session, and I am glad that people, who, I believe, are transferring this session, are able to recognize your hypocrisy. Math is unquestionable, '91. The number of Hrvat, now the number of Hrvat, so you see if it's genocide, is it emigration, etc. and what are the municipalities where the Hrvat are missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1054	I thank my colleague, Pendeš. Correction, violation of the Rules of Procedure Denis Bećirović. Here you go. I'm asking you to stick to the agenda, I can only ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1055	I really think that we should stick to the agenda and that it would be good if you and your colleague Pendeš had warned him to stick to the agenda. Namely, when there is a false assumption he should refer precisely to what was a false allegation. Now, we can take a break if there's one moment that I've brought the UZP and the entire Croatian people into the same basket, then that's another story. What kind of HDZ has a role to play and what judgments there are regarding LNG is a different matter, but there is no one right to speak about the whole people.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1056	Thank you. I hope these replicas, the corrections of false allegations, are over. Regular discussion, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1057	Good day to you all, I'm sorry that in this atmosphere we're talking about a good solution, is it, uh, about solving a knot that's long been waiting to be decommissioned, a bridge knot? This should be a solemn day, what they say politics is the art of possible, so this was possible, this is not the perfect solution, but also the way it was achieved and the content itself is good. It was better, of course, that it was resolved by the Parliamentary Assembly, two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, but we waited 12 years for it. After all, we were invited by the international community, Mr 22 Čović and I, to try and find a solution, I was not optimistic, to tell you the truth, but here we achieved it. I don't think Mostar will be a perfect solution for long, because relationships aren't perfect, so emotions, visions, interests, statues, fears of domination, memories, etc. But we're going to move forward and this is the moment when we're actually moving forward. I hope that one day we will have a direct choice of mayors, that we won't need any quotas or protective mechanisms, but at this point, the situation is what it is, and in these circumstances I think this is a good shift, so I urge you to adopt this solution today. With regard to the quotas mentioned by Mr Čović, I think we should think about it, so it would be good if this was a country where they didn't need protection quotas, but I think they should also be in Mostar, and probably throughout BiH, to create certain capsules that would protect, uh, people that are in certain cities and in certain territories in the minority from the disappearance. So, here I will work very hard and personally on this matter, to make protective quotas everywhere from Sarajevo, through Tuzla, to Bog, and Stoca and Chapljina, etc. Banja Luka and to protect, therefore, what is the substance of BiH, a multiethnic BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1058	I thank my colleague Izetbegović. The word came from Lidija Bradara.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1059	I thank the president. I welcome the co-chairs, all the distinguished guests. Here's what Mr. Izetbegović said, this is really one solemn day for us today, and I should be like that, and I'm sorry that our atmosphere is so dreary, but obviously we have so few subjects to spice up every one of our debates, and I would like to begin this one with a sentence and that here I would be in favor of this good point of the agenda and this law which I hope we will adopt today, which is that the Constitutional Court in its Decision of 2014 said that the general principle of democracy that the power comes from the people and belongs to the people. And I am happy that soon the citizens of Mostar will have the opportunity to choose their representatives in that, in the authority of government such as the municipal council, the City Council. We who have been involved in political life for years, we have been witnesses and we follow the practice and ways in which the highest legislative instruments are adopted, as the Constitution is passed, we have witnessed that you have, that we have one process in which we could, we have brought in a single constitution that was democratic, which was the Constitution of the Federation, which was adopted at the Constitution Assembly in '94. And he regulated a lot of things. However, through 75 amendments to the Federation's constitution, many provisions that defined the city of Mostar's status, special counties, everything that we had in BiH and obviously violated everything that was good in those processes and that kept the multiethnicity of certain spaces. So we had defined counties with a special regime, it was Central Bosnia County, it was Herzegovina-Neretva County, and we ended up in a situation that, behold, because of certain decisions of high representatives we haven't had in the City of Mostar for 12 years. What, those who have negotiated, here, for many years, since I come also from Central Bosnia, from one space that has the Travnik Municipality and I have been appealing to the president of the SDA and all officials who come from that space to make additional efforts to make the Travnik municipality also a city, so that it is not the only headquarters of the BiH Federation that has no status of the city. 23 Since much has been said about the Law, I think the amendments to the Election Law will ensure that the citizens of Mostar go to elections, that they exercise their legitimate right. I will propose on behalf of the Croatian Envoys Club one conclusion, and it says: To be in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to amend and supplement the Electoral Law for the Municipality of Travnik as soon as possible, and in accordance with the decisions of the Electoral Law for the City of Mostar, to implement the new electoral rules and to consult political representatives in the local community for the Municipality of Travnik in 2024. That would be our proposal, I hope you understand that there are many more environments that would like to have certain, certain electoral rules that would ensure that the very authority that comes from the people belongs to the people. Yes, I hope that we will soon have a consensus on further amendments to the Electoral Law or pass a new Electoral Law, and if Bog gives a new Constitution and BiH in some future, then of course the Federation of BiH and thus achieve new democratic principles in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1060	I thank my colleague Bradar. We've exhausted all the debates. I ask you to deliver that conclusion in writing. So, no more reported. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to approach the vote. So first, we declare our conclusions, so the first conclusion I suggested on behalf of the Serbian Club was: 1. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH recommends the Mostar City Assembly in a new invitation to include representatives of all constituent and other peoples in BiH in the process of drawing up a proposal for a new Statute, in order to ensure through the adoption of the new Statute the mechanisms of decision-making and implementation of the interests of all citizens of Mostar. 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH sees it necessary for the congregations of the Herzegovina-Neretva, Posavsky and Western Herzegovina canton until the day of the upcoming local elections in BiH to adopt amendments to the Constitution towards ensuring the consistency of all peoples and on the territory of these cantons. Please prepare to vote. Attending 14 – 13. The Federation of BiH - 9 for, against 0.1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. So I find that we have adopted the proposed two conclusions. We are going, therefore, to the conclusion on behalf of the Club of delegates from the Croatian people at point three(?) Agenda: 24 It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to forward amendments and additions to the Travnik Municipality within the short term, in accordance with the election law for the City of Mostar, in order to implement local elections for the Municipality of Travnik according to new electoral rules, political representatives in the local community will be consulted when drawing up the proposal. Prepare the voting mechanism, vote. ... It's a conclusion. [[no microphone turned on]] We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Election Law by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Give us the voting mechanism. At present 14 – for 13, versus 1, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH - 9 for, 1 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. So, I find that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the BiH Election Law by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and thus obtained the conditions to move to point three. Point three, Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the achievement of the identical text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1- 2015/17 of 09.08.2017 and 27.09.2017).) material number: 01,02-02-1-2015,2/17 of 26.06.2020 At its 36th session, held on 20.02.2018, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly People's House adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions in a second reading with one amendment. At the 54th session, held on 15.12.2018, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions in a second reading without amendments. Since the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Compensations in BiH institutions was adopted in a different text, according to the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples appointed delegates: Lidija Bradara, Dušanka Majkić and Munib Jusufović at the 4th session held in the Joint Commission for achieving the identical text of the Law of the House of Nations. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law was in session, reflecting 25.06.2020, to conclude that the subject of the harmonisation was an amendment adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The joint commission did not adopt the above-mentioned amendment and thus did not agree to the text of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. I give my word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if necessary. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a word, colleague Miletić, please. I didn't see any forgiveness. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1062	I'm sorry to pick up, but I'm gonna try really hard to be brief. I will not vote for this kind of change and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions for a simple reason, and I hope that you have all had the opportunity to get it, it is one of the addresses of the Trade Unions that we have received in the meantime, and we are addressed by trade unionists of our employees, meaning the deputy and civil servants, when it comes to our institution. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1063	kolega Miletić, we are not voting on the law, we are voting on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1064	Only if you'll excuse me, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1065	Okay, but just so you know...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1066	I'll finish. I ask you, therefore, in any case given that there are a lot of problems otherwise when it comes to the content of the law itself, and this Commission opinion, I ask you to bear in mind that we really have people in this building who are in a very difficult situation, I think in any case that this question deserves special attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1067	I thank my colleague Miletić. No one is coming forward today, so we are voting on the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on achieving the same text of the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH institutions, the Commission report you received. Prepare the voting mechanism. So present 14 – for 4, versus 9, abstention 1. So we don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority, so the Commission report isn't accepted. Therefore, in accordance with Article 120(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, if both homes do not adopt a negative report by the Joint Committee on the Consensus of the Bills, they shall be submitted to the Joint Commission for Harmonisation for the purpose of drawing up a new report in accordance with home guidelines. Thank you very much. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which reads: "According to Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16), I submit a delegation initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers that, no later than six months after the date of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it shall launch concrete activities with the aim of introducing 26 lower VAT rates for products of essential consumer consumption, as well as the introduction of taxes on luxury products", number: 02-50-6-2166/19 of 13.12.2019 We received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House, the Commission did not support this initiative. I give the word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, as a reporter, if there is any need. There's no need. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative, Mr Bećirović, if he wishes. No, he doesn't. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Comrade Sarajlić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We also discussed similar materials and similar initiatives at the last session, and I would suggest a conclusion before voting on this initiative, so on the basis of what you discussed last time. So, before the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, at the point of point 4 of this initiative, it is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Finance, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, and the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH to analyse possible effects and projections on the overall fiscal framework in BiH. So, we all suggest something, that's what we were saying then and when it was Mr. Denis Zvizdić's initiative, about moving deadlines, this, what, I would ask if this conclusion could finally tell us what models these are, what projections are, we see today from the media and these days how the corona affects the charge of VAT and budgets as a whole, so that one analysis of this, this expert body headed by the BiH Ministry of Finance delivers us and that then we can measurely discuss, and not in each session we have some initiative, and we don't really know what the potential effects of these initiatives are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1070	I thank my colleague Sarajlić. The word is from a colleague of Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1071	I thank the president. Given that this is an initiative and that everything Mr Sarajlić has been saying is missing, I find this initiative inconclusive, given that we have the Council of Ministers, there we have the finance minister and I think it is very important and I believe in the Council of Ministers and People 27 representing political parties, which make up the government in BiH, that soon they will come up with an appropriate proposal, of course, which will have appropriate financial indicators along with this proposal and in this sense I do not accept this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1072	Denis Bećirović answered the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1073	So I submitted this proposal on 13 December 2019, since then it has been officially protocold here in the parliamentary procedure and here on July 8th is on the agenda of the House of Peoples. I want to say that this is a topic and a question that we will certainly have on the agenda in the coming months. This corona crisis has only accelerated the issue and it is absolutely certain that we will have to think seriously about introducing, or reducing the VAT rate to essential products, primarily because of the huge number of poor citizens in BiH, throughout BiH. On the other hand, the initiative also proposes the introduction of higher taxes on luxury products, so on those of the richest in society. However, this morning we debated both at the club and I don't mind getting an opinion from all the authorities before the plea, and then we come forward here and at the House of Peoples session afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1074	Thank you. So, we have a business initiative to declare, if, to me, it is logical, if the initiative is accepted, then it is logical to accept this conclusion that the Council of Ministers prepares it. So, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1075	Let's get an opinion first, then let's get it straight. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1076	Yes, yes, but we must, so we must declare the initiative today, and it is logical for me if the initiative is accepted to adopt the conclusion of fellow Sarajlić, that the preparation of materials based on which we can conduct a debate is objectively based on the initiative itself we cannot, if you agree. Okay. So get ready to vote on Denis Bećirović's initiative. [[no microphone turned on]] Point five, Ad. 5. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which reads: "According to Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 58/14, 88/15, 96/15 and 53/16), I submit a delegation initiative in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH that, no later than six months from the day of adoption of this initiative in the House of 28 peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, prepare and submit in parliamentary procedure amendments amending Article VI of the Constitution of BiH so that the Constitutional Court of BiH has twelve members, of whom the President of the European Court of Human Rights, after consulting with the BiH Presidency, elects six members of the Constitutional Court of BiH", number: 02-50-6-430/20 of 14.02.2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1080	Thank you. So it's a proposal that predicts that we have a truly real and real equality in both Bosnian Herzegovina entities. It is a proposal envisioning that both the House of Peoples in the Federation of BiH and the Council of Peoples in the RS entity receive equal constitutional competencies. It is a proposal that provides for us to abolish other asymmetric solutions. I am convinced that we will never solve this problem in part from city to city, but that we must have one principled and consistent approach to equal relations with all BiH citizens and peoples in the entire BiH state territory. Only when we adopt such political attitudes and have such a political approach will we ensure the true equality of everyone in the entire BiH territory.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1081	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the initiative of fellow Bećirović. From present 14 – for 6, versus 8, abstentioned none. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, against 4, abstained no one. From Republika Srpska – against 4, there are no abstentions, no favours. So we have the general majority, we don't have the ethnic majority. We can go............................................................ There's no one else. Oh, yeah, there's no one else, there's no... So it's against 8, that there isn't, that, that we don't have the general majority, there's no entity majority. I understand that this initiative by colleagues Bećirović has not been adopted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the parliamentary delegations (the Official Messenger of BiH), No 4/20)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1087	Please pause on behalf of the Croatian People's Club for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-08-0.u1088	Okay, here's a five-minute break on behalf of the club. 32 [[PAUZA]] Yes, we vote to appoint Mirza Imamović as secretary-general of the Joint Service. We vote. At present 14 – for 9, against no one, abstentioned 5. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against none, with 5 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. I find that we have a general majority, we have an entity majority and I find that Mirza Imamović has been appointed secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I, in person, also wish to congratulate my colleagues on behalf of the House of Peoples and expect correct co-operation. We move to the point, so on the agenda there is still agreement to ratify the agreement. I suggest we bring together the debate and the statement on points 11 to 18, including the 18th agenda, because it is about ratifications. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement about the merger, yeah. So 14 is present – for 14, against no one, abstentioned anyone. We have a general, we have an entity majority, so the proposal was adopted to unify the debate and the statement on points 11 to 18, including the 18th agenda. Points 11 to 18. Ad. 11. - Ad. 18. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement
