ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8369	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to begin the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I am opening the 14th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from today's session was justified by representatives: Predrag Kožul, Darijana Filipović, Šemsudin Dedić, Dragan Mektić and jasmin Emrić, and representatives Enver Bijedić and Halid Genjac announced a delay. There are 35 MPs present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, and in accordance with Article 167. At the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister jasmin Emrić; Zukan Helez Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Mira Pekić Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; Nikola Lovrinović Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Nenad Nešić Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; Ljubica Miljanović to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Aida Baručija Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; Damir Arnaut Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic Minister of Defence of BiH. These announcements were made in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to which the issue concerns. I would like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers, in the order that has already arrived. Representative jasmin Emrić announced his question, but is not present at today's session, so let's go, I give the word to the next respected representative, Zukan Helez. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8370	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Advocacy, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of MPs. 2 My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, but also to the entire Council of Ministers, as well as to the entity governments. The issue concerns the state of the BiH population, today BiH is the world's country that loses the highest percentage of the population, except for those countries affected by the war. Population or population movement can be monitored through mechanical movement and natural movement, in BiH are catastrophic and devastating data, both when it comes to one and when it comes to the second movement of the population. Actually, natural movement is birth, mortality, and balance between the two, and that's natural growth. Bosnia and Herzegovina today has a negative rate of natural growth, which means that in BiH there are more deaths than live births in one year. This is already an alarming situation and I asked and asked the chairman – Is there a strategy? But the strategy can no longer help, because we are already in a serious crisis when it comes to and there should be an operational plan. Also in addition to this mechanical, this natural loss of population, we are mechanically losing a large number of inhabitants, about 30 to 50,000 people leave this country every year. At this rate, if we lose this number of inhabitants by natural and mechanical means we will become an old country, because I want to remind you, today when you travel through certain parts of BiH, especially southwestern Bosnia, Livno, Tomislavgrad, Kupres, then eastern Herzegovina, Ljubinje, Berkovići [[the speaker is warned on time]] Nevesinje, Bileća, the entire settlements are completely empty. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Also the depopulation area of eastern Bosnia, and more and more northwestern Bosnia, as we say Krajina, then central Bosnia and I call on the leaders of the ruling parties to order their ministers to urgently take action, make an operational plan to stop In the early stages this loss of population, otherwise in ten, twenty years for these leaders no one will hear they'll be retired somewhere or biologically disappear. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8371	Agent, you're way out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8372	And we'll have, here's just a sentence, two, and we'll have empty areas where some new residents will move into this beautiful country of ours. We've all fought for space, now somehow, especially those who rule in this country, try to keep those spaces empty and let them go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8373	The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers shall respond. Here you go, Mr. Tegeltija.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8374	Gentlemen, members of the working presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, fellow ministers, guests, media representatives. The issue I received as chairman was the ratio of the number of BiH residents over a period of five years, a reduction in natural pathways and emigration. You have to understand that these are statistical data and of course we're going to deliver in writing the way we got it, but in order to clarify and clarify this... the answer to this question briefly. 3 We have data on how many live births, how many died, what natural growth looks like for each of these five years, from 2015 to 2019, and data on registered evicted persons from BiH, not to speak, not to read all the data per year, for these five years in BiH are newly born 147.980, and the number of deaths 189.273, which means that negative natural growth is 41.293. It is very difficult to register all those who have left BiH, not only from BiH from all countries, some people who are leaving are registering, some do not register, do not log out for their departure and that, according to the statisticians, it is not easy to record correctly, but those who have registered have checked out their place of residence in BiH in the last five years of 20.386. The largest number, the worst natural growth, or the largest number of deaths compared to live births, is in 2019 when the difference is more than 10,000 inhabitants. The number of emigrations that have been recorded in principle when you know that 20.386 is saying that we have an average of about four thousand people who have checked out that they have moved out of BiH, and that average moves almost all the years is the same, from 2015 3,948, to, say, 2019, 2.054... The question was about exact statistics, so is this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8375	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8376	Mr. Chairman, you have answered to me about what I know and most of us from the media, what is crucial you have not answered me, and I have asked myself: What have you done, do you have an operational plan to stop it? When we now have a regressive rate of natural growth, some countries have a progressive, advanced rate, it has a steady rate when the same rate of birth and mortality is, as it approaches the stationary rate of natural growth, each serious state produces operational programmes to improve, increase birth rate or birth rate, and on the other hand, it represents a huge problem that in the process of emigration from BiH goes a reproductive part of the population, meaning those at the best years, which would create and increase birth. And so please, if you haven't already answered that in the shortest time you offer here to us, bring some sort of a state-level solution to both entities' frameworks to try and stop it. Because I repeat, otherwise it is one of the biggest problems in BiH besides all the problems, there is already a lack of labour And I'm asking you to do it as quickly as possible and offer us to adopt and go ahead and do it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8377	I give the word to MPs Miri Pekić, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8378	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My parliamentary question concerns spending on the budget reserve in the period from 01.10 to 30.11. I also asked the question at the last session, which concerned budget spending until 30.09. although it was oral, I received a written reply, and I am satisfied with the answer to, for budget spending. In response, there were no decisions by the Council of Ministers by 30 September concerning the spending of budget 4 funds of 27 million and 800 for the recovery of economic damages. Given that this House has committed itself, according to the Council of Ministers, to the Council of Ministers to provide monthly information, here I am now asking again, the question of the Minister of Finance in the Council of Ministers – Was there any expenditure on the budget reserve for the recovery of economic damages from, from 01.10 to 30.11.?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8379	Thank you, counselor. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8380	Greetings to you, the president, successful start of work and members of the College, respected representatives and all others, to shorten and give an answer within 2 minutes. The answer is simple and clear. So, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury at the three-month level submits a report to the Council of Ministers on the distribution and use of the current reserve, and the Council of Ministers also delivers it to the Parliamentary Assembly after adoption. At the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, scheduled for Thursday, information on the allocation and use of funds of the current reserve for the period 01-9 months 2020 is available. We, by special decision of the Council of Ministers in that item, made a decision to help the breed, allocated the funds to the total amount of 14.4 million entities and the Brcko District, the decision was realised because we were waiting from the Federation for an instruction on the payment of funds. Because your question concerns today, and you will realize that we are, for example, until six o'clock had last night the Fiscal Council, the up-to-date data you will receive in writing for this requested date during the day. Well, thank you very much, I want to say hello to you again, because I have a lot of questions, I hope you're all healthy and I wish you every happiness and good, and may Bog keep you safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8381	Thank you, Minister of Finance and Treasury. Does the representative want to comment? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8382	Thank you, Minister. Uh, I'm just asking you to confirm by noding your head, this 14.4 million is, it's those direct transfers from the account, is that by dividing, you've divided similar to the coefficients you're sharing VAT revenues, 60% of which went something like that, it seems to me, 30 and something to the Republika Srpska, and spending the budget reserve, here's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8383	Thank you. The word is represented by Nikola Lovrinović, please be my guest. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8384	Good afternoon, nice greeting to everyone, the chairman of you, members of the College, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, present guests. So, here I have made an effort and in some ways I was under obligation, I hope you will understand positively, to refer the question to the Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija, who reads – Will you initiate the procedure of the replacement of Minister Cikotić after the BiH Prosecutor's Decision, Minister Cikotić remains in the case of a war crimes investigation in Bugojn against Croatian prisoners in the camp "Stadion"? I gave you this situation when you were appointed, and now the investigation into Cikotić has confirmed the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So, on the occasion of this question, I have delivered a solution to the chief prosecutor, and I will remind you then, Mr. Chairman, that I have presented to you, Mr. tužiteljstvo Slavica, a colleague and colleague here, an act of the Prosecutor's Office which, with a delay of two years, informed interested parties in this case that Mrs. Terzić Slavica, the then prosecutor, has, therefore, made the case of the war crimes investigation, so to speak, Mr. Cikotić, and that they have the right to appeal, so with two years of delay, I have also asked the prosecutor's question. However, here they, in some way by putting such a solution, gave you a kind of answer, so since there is a certain procedure in the appointment, you said then that you would, therefore, check out the quote that I gave you at the time, remember, here to see what you are about to do, because here you were the promoter for this position as Mr. Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8385	Thank you, counsel. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8386	Thank you very much. In response to the previous parliamentary question, I then said what the law says, and regarding the appointment of ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the condition that someone could be appointed to the post is that he was not punished for the crime and that the indictment was not confirmed against him. At that time, we said that on these procedures, the confirmation, or decision-making of our institutions, it was SIPA that was competent to determine whether any of the candidates met or did not meet the conditions under these two criteria. Then, of course, you all got confirmation that the SIPA, which checks that data, found that there was no criminal penalty against Mr Cikotić at that time, nor was there a criminal offence against him, nor was there a charge confirmed. In the meantime, so I'm talking about a confirmed indictment, in the meantime, we've all learned it from the media and I've been getting your question to check at what stage this case is for Mr. Cikotić, there's a decision by the prosecutor, a warrant for the prosecutor to carry out the checks and to decide whether to stay at the solution to free Mr. Cikotić from the investigation or return him to the case of the investigation. So, at this point, we have no prosecutorial decision, and in particular we do not have a confirmed indictment based on which Mr. Cikotić could not perform his post as Minister of Security. As far as I understand this and as far as I got from the lawyers, it seems at that stage is this case. Of course, if this is the case, if six charges are confirmed, that we're not guessing at this point, then we can talk about it again at that point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8387	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? You have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8388	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, if there were any, then, here in our country, I had to ask this question, to you, Mr. Chairman, I shouldn't even be asking, so on this very fact and some earlier facts, perhaps the person I'm talking about should be able to resign or resign. However, since this is not happening, of course I am as a representative, and especially because I am interested in such a thing from that space. In addition, therefore, I did not ask in this matter, you know as chairman of the Council to conduct another investigation into another case, that there were inappropriate statements on the issue of migrants. So, you've been the promoter of this solution for this ministry as well as for each other, so I've asked you that question. It was possible to go to the initiative to collect signatures and also to do so, which may not be excluded, but you were the promoter and I wanted it to start from you as was the appointment process. I'll try to provide you with some next period. And perhaps to Mr. Minister, one of the books written by the camper, who survived all of this, so that you can see what the devastation of the municipality of Bugojno and Hotvatski property in that municipality was. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, of course, if you're interested, but I believe you'll be interested, so you'll see, so this is us, I apologize to the chairman, we've been discussing ministers who've been to some parties, and this is a very serious thing, so this is a war crime. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Therefore, we have at the Ministry of Security a person who in some way binds himself, and I said then that I am not at all pleading whether I am right or wrong, that it will show the course of the investigation and the prosecution, but the fact that it is such an event, therefore, and that we have such a composition of the Council of Ministers I do not, therefore, have the words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8389	I give my word to President Nenad Nešić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8390	My question is addressed to the finance and vault minister, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda – When do you expect the conclusion of an agreement with the IMF on the loan debt of BiH in the amount of 1.5 billion converting marks and what does the draft letter of intent contain, i.e. what are the obligations and reforms that BiH needs to implement, and if possible to deliver to us this letter of intent?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8391	Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8392	Here's to answer specifically to Mr. Nešić. The letter of intent is determined by the Fiscal Council of BiH, made by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Finance, which is now me, entity prime ministers and finance ministers. In the letter of intent in the previous measures, I simply focused on what is the obligation of the state in those talks and publicly stated that I have no problem supporting such things as, uh, the obligation of the state. Because in the letter of intent it says that the state needs to adopt a budget, I also think it should be passed, that we will agree on specific strategies in public finances management according to constitutional arrangements and try to sublime it into a single strategy, that we will adopt the law, and now I don't know exactly the name, about electricity, so, that's precisely, that already stands the law of that five years in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And since neither the state level, nor this Parliamentary Assembly, nor anyone employed by the state... at the state level, so neither the state has an IMF mark, but they use entities and quite normal in the Federation if they want to make their own decisions at lower levels, I have no and I said that yesterday, I have no grudges. I can't send you a letter of intent, because the negotiations are under way, the Fiscal Council was suspended yesterday at 6:00 p.m. and his extension will be on Friday afternoon. I expect a deal, because entities need money, and when you ask me not to be imprecise, when I expect, I expect when domestic authorities make an agreement and they have nothing to dispute about, and then the IMF Committee approves it. And I'm also telling you that neither I nor the letter of intent, nor the memorandum have the chance to sign without clearly established criteria and criteria relating to distribution, because I don't want to be part of the circus that I was around the last IMF deal, when they weren't looking at anything anymore, but we were purely politicalally looking at each other in front of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8393	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8394	I'm worried about this whole IMF story that seven people on behalf of all of us here, on behalf of the institutions and entities, the BiH institution, say we're going to be in charge so much and so much and assume obligations that have no agreement... the contents of the letter of intent have always been in secret, who can, on behalf of this Parliament, the entity assemblies of anyone, promise what we're going to do. In 2013, Mr Željko Komšić announced that he would ask the BiH Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of all arrangements with the IMF, and at that time was supported by our colleague, Mr Radmanović, who said that all international agreements, any institutions in BiH, must pass through the BiH presidency by law, all contracts with the IMF were not in Parliament, nor in the BiH presidency, it would be important to point out to all in BiH and those who come to BiH from some other world institutions to cultivate the rule of law here, said Mr Radmanović at the time. Radmanović then said -- that the IMF was not interested in the BiH Constitution and laws, saying they completely bypass BiH's constitutional position, or the BiH presidency, and that I fully agree with Mr Radmanović and therefore expect the Council of Ministers... to deliver the letter of intent and that Mr Radmanović will support us. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I want to tell you that I've been given a variety of information. that we will assume certain obligations that completely violate sovereignty and sovereignty and entities, and I will discuss that later. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8395	Thank you. I ask all MPs to stick to the time laid down in business and to ask questions and comment. The word is represented by Ljubica Miljanović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8396	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I welcome all present. My question concerns the Council of Ministers, the hands of the chairman – How much is the total trade between BiH in these first three quarters at the end of 2020, how much was the value of exported goods, and how much was the value of imported goods? How much participation in BiH's total exports achieved exports to the European Union at the end of 2020 and how much in the first three quarters of BiH exported to Germany, Italy, Serbia, Croatia, Austria, Slovenia, Hungary and Turkey in 2020, and how much in the same period in 2019? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8397	Thank you, counsel. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija, responds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8398	Thank you very much. There are a lot of statistics here, of course, that we will provide you with the answer in writing for all of you, that you have data on how our foreign trade is moving for the first nine months of 2020. The total volume of the exchange is, I will only talk about millions not to enter those... figures, in nine months the total volume of the foreign trade exchange of BiH is 23 billion and 63 million converting marks. During the period during the foreign trade exchange, BiH achieved a 5 billion and 346 per cent deficit, and during this period we had export coverage of 62.40 per cent. The volume itself, a significant reduction in the volume of the external trade exchange, the coverage of imports by exports, is moving within the frameworks of those we had in the previous period. When we speak individually about the items that appear to be exports in the first nine months, BiH exports were exported goods and services totalling 8 billion and 858 million converting marks and this is more than a billion and 142 million less than it was in the same period in 2019 or 11.42% less than in the same period in 2019. When it comes to imports into the BiH market, goods worth 14 billion and 205 million have been imported, down 2 billion and 467 million from the same period in 2019 or more than 14.8% are less imports into the BiH market. When we talk about external trade with regard to the European Union, external trade, the European Union is our most significant external trade partner. With the European Union, our neighbour Serbia is only the next to have, moving within the framework of our most significant foreign trade partners. In the first nine months, goods worth 6 billion and 401 million converting marks were exported to the European Union market and this is less than 10.97% compared to the same period of the previous year. At the same time, goods and services worth 9 billion 534 million have been imported from the EU market, and this is less than 15.57% compared to the same period of the previous year. In the overall foreign trade exchange of BiH with the EU, 69.1% of the total foreign trade exchange of BiH is foreign trade. 9 Our most significant external trade partner from the EU is our neighbour Croatia, after which we have a significant volume of foreign trade with Austria and Germany. In total exports from BiH, the European Union participates at 72.3% and our export markets are Croatia, Germany, Slovenia, Italy and Austria. In total BiH, the European Union participates with something less than in total exports and participates with 67.1%. The most important markets from which we import goods from the EU are...all the same countries as we export to, Croatia, Germany, Slovenia, Italy and Austria. Of course, there are other foreign trade partners, there are many numbered countries here and it would be really tiring to read all the data we are talking about, but we will say, the decline in external trade is the smallest in Germany, it is very high when it comes to reducing exports to Italy in the period of nine months 2019 and 2020, which fell by 26%. Exports to Serbia are down 14%, in Croatia only 3%. Export to Austria in 2020 is for 10% lower than it was in the previous period last year, Slovenia is lower by 8%, and the biggest drop in exports was recorded according to Hungary and Montenegro, I would say, the volume of foreign trade is low, exports to Montenegro fell by 28% and in Hungary by 29%. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The only country in the number of countries you asked a question in which we did not have a reduction in exports is Turkey in which we exported 254 million marks in the last nine months, in the same period we exported 237 million or 7% more than in 2019. There's still a significant number of statistics here, so that I don't burden you with all of them, we'll send you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8399	Thank you, Chairman. Does the representative want to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8400	I'm just expecting this in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8401	Thank you very much. I give my word to Aida Baručija. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8402	Thank the chairman, I welcome all present. In the previous period, the Medicines Agency prepared a proposal for a decision on the list of essential medicines in BiH and obtained positive opinions from the relevant institutions, except for the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Despite a number of sent-offs requesting the Ministry's opinion and pointing to the importance of making a decision on the essential list of medicinal products in BiH, the Agency did not receive feedback, along with the proposed concessions suggested the importance of an essential list of medicinal products on the health and social system in BiH. Article 33. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers have defined the time limit for giving an opinion and shall be 10 days from the date of receipt of the material, if it is urgent materials which, where urgent, therefore, need to be submitted, the authorities are obliged to give an opinion immediately. My question to the minister is – Why do you question the availability of medicines from the Essential List to the citizens of BiH? Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8403	The President's reply, Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8404	Hi, everybody, I'm just gonna try to make a joke, because it's going to frame these two minutes, as if the question is asking someone from this pharmaceutical lobby, because some drug isn't built on something. You quoted very clear provisions, so let me say. So, according to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, the Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for carrying out operations and performing tasks that are within the competence of BiH regarding the establishment of basic principles of coordination of activities, the harmonisation of plans of entity bodies, the definition of an international strategy in the fields of health and social protection. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers are also prescribed an obligation to obtain the opinion of competent institutions, but the opinion is not binding so that the material can be directed and discussed at the BiH Council of Ministers. So I'm not questioning anything, I'm going to look at what it is in the ministry, but this could have been on the Council of Ministers specifically because there's no financial repercusion on the budget. Here, I'm trying to keep it within my scope, and I know the question's been ordered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8405	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8406	Of course I want to, nothing's been ordered, I don't know if you're aware that the essential list of medicines is mostly used by chronic patients, and exactly in the audit report stands, the Medicines Agency, that without the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury this, the Council of Ministers can't discuss this act. So the question is not ordered, the question is meaningful, so it says in the audit report that without your opinion, you cannot come to the Council of Ministers and it says that the Council of Ministers should get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8407	Thank you, counsel. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8408	Thank you, Chairman. Congratulations on taking over the presidency of the House and I wish you and all of us much more sessions in your term than in your first session when only one regular session of the House was held. Mr. Bevanda, the question is the Minister of Finance, as far as I know this comment does not stand, that something has been ordered, only new cars have been ordered for your party bosses. 11 And now my question which was ordered by the citizens, if you will. After my proposal passed a law that abolished or significantly limited fees for commission work, according to official data from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which you manage, there was savings in an average amount of about a million and a half marks a year in each of the years after the law was passed, in '16, '17, '18. and '19. It is obvious that this will be a trend in both, and that this will also be the case with 2020 because the trend is clear compared to the years before the adoption of this law. That's official data from the finance ministry, I say, an average million and a half a year, once a million two hundred, once a million eight hundred, that's your data. So, my law has already saved 7.5 million marks when it comes to these commission fees. My Durgic law, which abolished white bread saved an additional 2.5 million marks compared to the previous periods when it could be taken, thus 10 million savings as a result of two simple proposals of my own. Since you did not reduce the budgetary framework during that period, my question is – How have these savings been spent, to what specifically did you reroute them to? Don't answer me at all, what exactly did 10 million marks go to or what my colleague Damir Nikšić would say – where is the money?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8409	Thank you, counsel. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8410	Since the Rules of Procedure are prescribed that you ask the questions, I have two minutes and then you will be dissatisfied and I do not see the purpose of what was related to the order, the audit report, it's all the same, all the same people do and this repeats things. I don't know about party bosses, do you know who this party boss is now? But to finish and refrain from everything, I'll frame myself in two minutes. The decision on the establishment of the Global Fiscal Framework shall be made by the Fiscal Council, the expenditure side of the budget shall be determined by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on a proposal from the BiH Presidency, at the same time the report on the implementation of the budget at the three-month level shall be submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly. The Parliamentary Assembly is considering the report on the implementation of the budget, the question is absolutely clear to me, but you have been participating in Parliament's work for a long time, and you know that money cannot be colored in the entry, exit, you know what our budgetary framework is, you know that it is simply as much as it is, and that we are closing in with torture every year, and in the decision on spending the funds, the Parliamentary Assembly decides at the end of the proposal of the BiH Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8411	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8412	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevanda and you yourself know that this is not a concrete answer and there is no answer, in this framework of budget I saved you 10 million marks, and I ask you where you redistributed them, because it's not a percent smaller, if at least a percent smaller one would know, here's 10 million saved by 12 citizens, but you've redistributed 10 million and I can only draw a conclusion on cars, on these privileges, etc. and you know very well, so, is Parliament adopting the budget, but you're proposing it, you're proposing a draft budget to the Presidency, the Presidency delivers a proposal, quite clearly. So I saved 10 million marks with two simple laws, I'm interested in where that money went, except in these cars. For 10 million marks you could buy two embassy buildings instead of paying rent worldwide. You could have bought seven, eight buildings for BiH institutions in the country, instead of paying rent and for those institutions, you could have bought a vaccine for the entire region for 10 million marks. It's serious money. Because of this relationship, the IMF should not lend loans to such a government, you obviously do not know how to dispose of money in the interests of the people, and it is pathetic to insult economic analysts when they point out the same thing. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8413	I give the word to MPs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8414	I, therefore, intended to ask the oral question of the defence minister because of the fact that I had not received an answer to my question, and as far as the shooting site in our town in Tuzla, the question was concerned – was it recorded as military property? The question is, I actually got the answer yesterday, at least it came to me after work hours. However, I would only take the opportunity to ask here, given that I asked to be provided with documentation which, on the basis of which it was carried out, was carried out in the book, if it had been registered, and I received the answer that it was, I would have asked to be delivered to the Bureau, which, therefore, made this property available to me by prospective military property, because I had been delivered only land-booked excerpts and it was a little unclear how this property could have been declared a prospective military property since some of them were there in '55. She's been leading the Upper Tuzla Earth Association for years. And here, therefore, I'm not asking for an answer, but I'm asking for a decision from the Presidency to which this property was declared a prospective military property, because this facility used citizens before the war, a shooting club and used former JNA, and now that facility is actually failing, it's also disabled by athletes and citizens, so it means they're using it. Well, here's what I'd like to say would be an additional contribution to getting me the presidency's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8415	Thank you. Answer, BiH Defence Minister Mr Podžić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8416	Madam Chairman, members of the College, esteemed representatives, honored guests, I welcome you all and I want a success in the work. Dear Representative Lepić, I don't know how this happened, but the Ministry of Defence answered you 10.11. this year for the first time, and 03.12. the second time to your question, and here I got yesterday that you wanted me to give you an oral answer to these questions. So, in addition to what you have already stated that the BiH Presidency's decision on the size, structure and locations of the BiH Armed Forces since 18.04.2012, which came into force on the same day, on the day of its adoption, the "Pasa Bunar" website in Tuzla was declared a prospect military location for the Armed Forces of BiH and 13 through the Ombudsman's office, this location was recorded. As I see from your question, it is not clear to you, and therefore the Federal Secretariat of People's Defence, i.e. the former Yugoslavia, was the owner of the plot, we have a solution from the court, I will deliver it Lepić to you, and only by the Federal Secretariat for the People's Defence of the former Yugoslavia is the right to use the Earth's community of Gornja Tuzla. So, this one, it's all done the way the law provides.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8417	Thank you, Secretary of Defense, for your response. Does the representative want to comment? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8418	I'm actually just asking, here's to get me all this complete documentation, I've only been delivered to only two soil-booked excerpts, and for the first time in about four hours yesterday I had in my hands your answer, maybe somewhere there was a bullet in the delivery, but here's the same question, as my colleague Arnaut said, ordered by the citizens of Tuzla, or people who used it before, and now I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8419	Thank you, counsel. Here's the thing. We've exhausted oral questions and answers. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change of session agenda, I would like to point out the following. The previous agenda was removed from point 29. A review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Damir Arnaut, which reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start the search procedure within 10 days of the adoption of this initiative, diplomatic and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Špirić was involved in public corruption and has benefited from it, including through the exercise of public functions and the obstruction of public processes during his term as a member of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina", at the request of the Foreign Affairs Commissioner. Point 35. A review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative Denis Zvizdić "constituent House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to agree within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, as the holder and coordinator of the activities, with the Energy Governments, the revised document of socio-economic reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020 to 2022 and following the Action Plan, in view of the economic crisis caused by the coronary pandemic (COVID-19) and the necessary austerity measures in the public sector, and the measures to assist the economy to be taken in the next period in order to recover Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy", at the request of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development. 14 At the request of the Joint Committee for European Integrations on the agenda, the following points are deleted: point 37. A review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative, Denis Zvizdić, "delegates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt the Action Plan for Public Administration Reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible, not later than 30 days after the adoption of this initiative, in order to finalise 14 other priorities and 8 subpriorities from the European Commission's Opinion on the request for Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the European Union", of 5. 11. 2020. Point 38. A review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative, Denis Zvizdić, "delegates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy for 2020 – 2024 as soon as possible, not later than 10 days after the date of adoption of this initiative, and to follow the Action Plan, which is an obligation from the European Commission's Opinion on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union and the accompanying Analytical Report". Point 41. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and to refer the draft law on market surveillance of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative and to the parliamentary procedure, in order to bring it into line with the legal course of the European Union, i.e. Regulation No. 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 Seven. In 2008, which sets out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the placing on the market of different products." Point 42. A review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative, Denis Zvizdić, "delivers the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament's House of Representatives, as soon as possible, and not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, the preparation and parliamentary procedure of the draft law on the electricity and natural gas regulator, the transmission and the electricity market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to implement the obligations of the Third Energy Package of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community and the obligations undertaken by the European Commission's Analytical Report of the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union". Point 45. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina with drawing up and delivering within 60 days of the adoption of this initiative to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers for the adoption of the first draft Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina (NECP), which is the obligation of this ministry from the Action Plan of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement priorities from the European Commission's Analytical Report. Point 48. A review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative, Denis Zvizdić, "delegating the Parliamentary House of Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within 60 days of the adoption of this initiative, to take the decision to adopt the Strategic Document for the Youth Area at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to enable the withdrawal of funds from IPA funds in the youth field, and in this connection the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with taking all necessary activities to take place as soon as possible, and not later than 30 days after the adoption of this initiative, by the Commission for Co-ordination of Young People's Issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina". 15 The following are added to the agenda: point 5. A request by Agent Denis Zvizdić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2310/20 of 8. 12. 2020. Point 45. Granting consent to ratify the amendments to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer. Point 46. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, the Joint European Fund for the Western Balkans /WB-IG-O2-BiH-TRA-06,, the Mediterranean CV: Bosnia and Herzegovina – Travel Interconnection with Croatia, Subdivision I. Tarcin-Tarčin-Ivan", of 26. 11. 2020. Point 47. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (GGF2 W2 – Energy Efficiency Project in public buildings Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Point 48. Consent to ratification of the Grant Treaty (GGF2 W2 – Energy Efficiency Project in public buildings Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which refers to an investment grant under the Western Balkan Regional Energy Efficiency Programme (REEP). Point 49. Approving the ratification of the Agreement on Grant and Amendment 7 to the Funding Treaty of 27. 2. 2006 between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers of BiH (primary), worth 5.000,00 euros for the Covida-19 project on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MICMSME) through the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBH), signed 27. Ten. 2020 and 29. Ten. In 2020, Sarajevo and Frankfurt, May, 3rd. 12. 2020. The following points are added: point 6. Proposal for Amendments II, III, IV and V to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the SDPBiH Club, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Darijana Filipović, Alma Čolo, Nada Mladina and Edita Đapo, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, which is negative for the second time. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Damir Arnaut, here's your representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8420	Thank you, Chairman. Here's klug Our Party – The Independent Block proposes the agenda point – the MPial initiative "depending on the BiH Ministry of Justice, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that within 10 days of the adoption of this initiative begin the procedure of seeking diplomatic and 16 other appropriate channels of information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States that Nikola Špirić was involved in public corruption and benefited from the same, including achievement, quote: "Achieving an improper benefit during the exercise of public functions, obstructing public processes during his term as a member of the Parliamentary House of BiH," I quote the US Embassy. The club delivered this initiative in the procedure of 28.09.20120, it was removed from the agenda today, because the Foreign Affairs Commission did not give an opinion, although the Foreign Affairs Commission met this morning to give an opinion on the ratification of international loan agreements mainly, and then the quorum was broken before it could decide on this initiative. However, I recall that this initiative was proposed on 28 September 2020, the Foreign Affairs Commission had all of October, the whole November and here almost half of December to meet and discuss it. But the Foreign Affairs Commission was due first to meet on Monday, and on Tuesday, so it met ten minutes before the House session and then broke the quorum before this could be decided. Therefore, the only possible way to find this on the agenda, considering whether, two-month obstructions and what I have just said about today's session, is to propose as a part of the agenda at the beginning of the House session as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8421	I'd like to thank Agent Arnaut. The word from Aida Baruči's representative, you have the word "representative."
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8422	Thank you, Chairman. A group of Independent bloc MPs, Our Party, SDP, is asking for the agenda to be placed on the agenda, i.e. a request to initiate a vote on mistrust by the BiH Council of Ministers. A small number of proposed laws and held sessions, not caring about money, so BiH citizens and a poor response to the pandemic, not caring about the economy, preserving jobs, without managing the migrant crisis, are constantly borrowing only some of the reasons why this agenda item should be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8423	Thank you, counsel. Next for discussion, Nenad Stevandić came forward, and you have your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8424	Good afternoon. On the basis of Article 71a, on the basis of Article 60, I propose the adoption of a conclusion through a new item of the agenda, which reads – That the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is urgently requested, as early as 7 days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, convenes a session of the Joint Commission on the Control of Work of the Security Agency of BiH with the aim of closely investigating listed by the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Mr Milan Tegeltija on the illegal 17 and arbitrary system... monitoring, recording, listening to the VSTS president, on the findings of the investigation, the Joint Commission should inform both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. On November 26th, an audio recording of the VSTS president and co-worker's phone conversation appeared in public regarding her sister's employment. A day later, Tegeltija was rated as an amazing installation on the Internet for a Sarajevo TV. He also stated that he had talked to the director of OBA BiH who after checking him out and said that his findings on illegal listening and recording were true, but that it was not him who did it but the rogue parts of OBA. This is no story of Milan Tegeltija and its determination of responsibility, it is the work of someone else and the story of VSTS, this is the story of the constitutional order being violated, that everyone can be listening, targeted, if you want to understand more correctly what I'm talking about, delete the name of Milan Tegeltija and add the name of Bakir Izetbegović, Borjana Krišto, Zoran Tegeltija, a colleague from Parliament, means if this is how it can be done, and that we do not discuss it, and of course we are not the court in which we can judge it, but in our jurisdiction we can ask that the Joint Commission determines the facts and based on the statement of the Director of the Intelligence Agency of BiH whether there are some parts of the service, whether we live in a system in which causes and determines the political processes and which we each of us can discharge whether we have talked with our family at the expense, or whether we have not counted. So, each of you is at this point in Milan Tegeltija that I don't discuss as someone I would support, defend, it's a job for other people, but what's our jurisdiction we can't avoid if this is a clear attempt and a clear recording and a clear illegal action that must be investigated and in addition to the decisions of the prosecution and ours, to say, by a political decision that the Joint Defence and Security Commission is investigating and to inform us of what is going on here and whether we live in a country where we renegade parts of the service, which we pay and, to say, delegates can target, destroy people no matter who they are or what they are. I repeat, it's not about Milan Tegeltija, it's about every man who can experience this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8425	I'd like to thank the prisoner. Next for discussion, representative Nenad Nešić reported, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8426	Thank you. I propose a new item of the agenda – Draft letter of intent of the IMF regarding a new credit arrangement of 1.5 billion converting marks. In order not to repeat myself, what I said earlier when asking a parliamentary question, I believe that the Scriptures of intent cannot remain secret and I believe that we need to know what is in that letter of intent.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8427	I'd like to thank the representative. At this point, I no longer see any applications for a debate on the agenda, amendments and additions to the agenda of today's session. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. 18 Like this, now we're going to enter the pleas. We have an initiative explained by Arnaut, she was in our agenda proposal and you saw that we read for the reason that the initiative was taken down because the competent ministry did not do this job, that is, the commission did not do its job and was removed from today's agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In this case we have an agent who proposes an initiative, we will put this initiative to the vote. As for the second Aida Baruči initiative, the request concerns the initiating of a vote on the BiH Council of Ministers' mistrust. I would remind the honourable representative, she called here for the provisions of Article 153. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, but I will also say that this initiative, with this initiative, will be handled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it will be included in the House's agenda in accordance with Article 154 so that we do not plead today, it will be forwarded to the Rules of Procedure as required. We have the next initiative for the agenda, supplementing Mr Stevandić's agenda, to reach, meaning, the conclusion that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is urgently requested that, within 7 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, the meeting of the Joint Commission for Labour Control of the Security Agency, with the aim of delivering, in detail, the report of the President of the VSTV Milan the Tegeltija on the illegal and arbitrary system and continuous monitoring and recording, the listening of the VSTV president in order to overcome illegal complications and installation as alleged materials that should be produced unprofessional changes in the judicial system. We had this same initiative on the agenda today, and we pleaded on it, but since the MP has the right to propose at the session itself and we will declare this initiative. And we have another initiative, at this point I just got a short – draft letter of intent from the IMF. I will remind the representative of Article 71 that, at the beginning of the House of Representatives session, as well as any authorised applicant, he has the right to request the abandonment of a non-religious point and to propose a new one with the relevant material in writing. I would remind the esteemed representative Nenad Nešić that in his case we do not have such material, we have only one sentence, which says – the draft letter of intent of the IMF regarding a new loan arrangement of one million and a half billion KM. So we don't have any material on this here we can't make out. Here I am asking the MPs to prepare for the vote at the moment. Representative Arnaut reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8428	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to this initiative proposed by my colleague Baruči, so Article 154. The Rules of Procedure implies that, if you act as you have suggested, the latest date when we can have a meeting on vote of confidence with the Council of Ministers will be on 8 or 9 January and in that case I ask you to stick strictly to those deadlines, so as not to decide 20 and some January, because it makes it easier for someone. I continue to suggest, the House may, in conclusion, refer to the Rules of Procedure as prescribed, that we vote on this today, to discuss it today. If you insist on yours, I will not say the interpretation that is ok, but on the proposal you made, then I ask you to meet me here no later than January 8th or 9th, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and to replace this Council of Ministers. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8429	Your Honor, you have misused the business provision, the business provision refers to the conduct of the session and this matter you have spoken of is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, and everyone else is also holding a session and all other activities are regulated by the Rules of Procedure and there is no need for someone to specifically warn us about it. Nenad Nešić, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8430	Thank you, Chairman. I want to say that the material is here on the third floor, and if you guys do, it can be easy, very easily delivered to us here. I suggest an hour's break to deliver the material and then we make a statement about this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8431	Please, counselor, I hope you know the Rules of Procedure, but you had to read that during the agenda there is no session break. Here, thank you very much, and I hope you understand that our whole goal is to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposals for amendments and additions to the agenda. Let's go to the first initiative that Agent Arnaut has proposed, so let's get to the bottom of it. This is: It requires the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to include within 10 days of the adoption of this initiative in public corruption and to benefit from it, diplomatic and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Špirić has been involved in public corruption and has achieved the benefit of it, including the lack of proper benefit during the exercise of public functions and the obstruction of public processes during this term as a member of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please make a statement. Of the 32 present – we have 18 for, 11 v, 3 abstentions. We have a general majority, but we do not have an entity majority in Republika Srpska. An ex post statement. We move to a statement on Mr Stevandić's initiative, that the agenda of today's session includes a conclusion requiring the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives urgently, and no later than 7 days after the date of adoption of this conclusion, a session of the Joint Commission on Labour Control of the Security Agency of BiH, with the aim of closely investigating VSTV President Milan Tegeltija's statement of unlawful, arbitrary, systematic and continuous monitoring, recording, listening to the VSTV president in order to create illegal complications and installation as alleged materials to produce personal changes in the judicial system. Here, please, let us be clear about the proposal of this item for today's session agenda. Of the 32 present – for 12, against 14, abstention 6. There is no general majority, this proposal for inclusion in the agenda did not receive the required majority. 20 And we said that the fourth proposal was not explained according to the Rules of Procedure, and it was not spoken of thereof. I conclude after saying that the 14th session of the House has the agenda that you received with the invitation, along with these readings and additions and those of which we have actually stated, since none of them have been adopted at today's session. So, all it remains is that the House session has the agenda that we received with the call with the read changes and additions. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2144/20 of 3. 11. 2020; 4. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2145/20 of 3. 11. 2020; 5. Request by Agent Denis Zvizdić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2310/20 of 8. 12. 2020; 6. Proposal for Amendments II, III, IV and V to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives of the SDPBiH Club, issue: 01-01-1-2070/20 of 20. Ten. 2020, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Darijana Filipović, Alma Čolo, Nada Mladina and Edita Đapo, issue: 01-02-1408/20 of 9. Seven. In 2020, with the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights; 8. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for making legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH, issue: 01/1-50-3-13/20, link number: 03/7-02-4-367/18 of 16. Nine. 2020. (second reading); 9. Report by the College of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal of Representatives Damir Arnaut for the entry of a new item into the agenda of the 13th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Discussing Damir Arnaut's representative's initiative, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to implement, within ten days of the date of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia with a view to the retegorisation of the border crossing point on international passenger traffic or its opening for retail traffic, and in any event of the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of pupils of primary and secondary schools", issue: 01-50-1787/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 10. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Mirko Šarović's proposal to include a new item in the 13th session of the House of Representatives' agenda: Information from the Central Election Commission on the attempts of electoral fraud through the vote by mail outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the measures taken and the plan for further measures to prevent electoral fraud, Proposer: Representative Mirko Šarović, issue: 01-50-1-2002/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's House of Representatives' proposal to include a new item in the 13th session of the House of Representatives' agenda, which reads: Information from the BiH Parliamentary House's College of Representatives 21st Assembly to inform officials whether it is true that the Secretary of Parliament's House of Representatives has refused to sign consent to the state institution of the Central Election Commission of BiH to give consent to the use of the Great Hall for the traditional holding of an electoral press conference and institutions in the context of the maintenance of the Local Election 2020, Proponent: Representative Dženan Đonlagić, issue: 01-50-1-2003/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 12. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Amendments of MPs Alma Čolo to the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić), issue: 01-02-1-2573/17 of 15. Ten. 2020; 13. Commission Report from the College on Efforts of Understanding on Amendments of Representatives Damir Arnaut, Jasmin Emrić and Saša Magazinović to the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić), issue: 01-02-1-2573/17 of 15. Ten. 2020; 14. Report by the Commission of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representative Saša Magazinović, issue: 01-02-1-1769/20 of 15. Ten. 2020. (Law in First Reading); 15 / 15 Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Road Safety Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1-1805/20 of 15. Ten. 2020. (emergency procedure law); 16. Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a report on the implementation of the BiH Strategic Rural Development Plan (2018-2021) – Framework document in 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-50-18-1795/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 17. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Zlatan Begić "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the competent ministries of the BiH Council of Ministers and other competent institutions/bodys to ensure, in cooperation with the BiH Border Police, the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the legal procedure necessary for the engagement/employment of the missing, i.e. the number of members of the BiH Border Police, and the appropriate equipment of the necessary material and technical means, with a view to an appropriate response to the problems arising from the migrant crisis", issue: 01-50-1772/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 18. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Zlatan Begić, "in cooperation with other competent institutions, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasked the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs with obtaining official data relating to the exact number of rejected and rejected calls by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the proceedings brought by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for damages caused by war crimes committed, crimes against humanity and crimes genocide (with a list of cases), and to obtain official data on whether (and who are) representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina (generally and in this court) participated in the proceedings under these cases at any stage, and at any stage, and what their position or possible impact on the content of the decision was made by: 15/13/77: Ten. 2020; 19. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Zlatan Begić "in line with its competences and in cooperation with other competent state institutions and in cooperation with citizens' associations of 22 victims of crime at the gate, committed on 25 May 1995 in Tuzla, as the highest institutional level, organises the contact and organisation of official visits by representatives of the victims of this crime and the state institutions of BiH countries that have received numerous wounded victims of this serious crime to treat and care, and organises official reception in Bosnia and Herzegovina for representatives of these friendly states in cooperation with the victims' associations of victims, in order to express in this and other appropriate ways the gratitude of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens towards these countries and their citizens, with the aim to develop a culture of memory and understanding of their relations with the 15-20 countries, as well as to show that the number of non-crizenships from the 15. Ten. 2020; 20. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Zlatan Begić "to establish the Interim Research Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the issue of the migrant crisis, which will establish facts and collect relevant information in connection with the migrant crisis – by conducting hearings of responsible persons, by going out on the ground and by other means and by submitting a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with a proposal for short-term and long-term measures from the jurisdiction of this home that should be taken to manage this crisis effectively, in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and respecting their security and rights and freedoms to them, and in terms of respect of the highest international standards of human dignity, and human rights and freedom of migrants", issue: 01-50-1775/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 21. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Zlatan Begić "by which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives tasked the Council of Ministers to, in cooperation with the Rector's Conference and the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH, and other competent institutions/bodys/institutions within three months, prepare and submit amendments to the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH", issue: 01-50-1815/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 22. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative "by which the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to launch, in cooperation with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the procedures necessary for the establishment of a new ministry in the BiH Council of Ministers – the Ministry of Immigrants", number: 01-50-1816/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 23. Annual audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1910/20 of 29. Nine. 2020; 24. Reports from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2019: 1) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Market Control Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1040/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 2) Report on the Financial Audit of the Insurance Agency in BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1041/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 3) Report on the financial audit of the 2019 BiH Archives, issue: 01-16-1-1042/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 4) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1051/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 5) Report on the Financial Audit of the Centre for Information and Recognition of High Education Documents in BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-052/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 23 6) Report on the Financial Audit of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-053/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 7) Report on the Financial Audit of the BiH Directorate for European Integration for 2019, issue: 01-16-1054/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 8) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1056/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 9) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Return Fund for 2019, issue: 01-16- 1-1057/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 10) Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-058/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 11) Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Standardisation of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1059/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 12) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1060/20 of 29. 5. 2020; 13) Report on the financial audit of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-151/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 14) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Police Support Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-152/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 15) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-153/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 16) Report on the Financial Audit of the Mine Removal Centre in BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1154/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 17) Report on the financial audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection for 2019, issue: 01-16-1171/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 18) Report on the financial audit of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers for 2019, issue: 01-16-1172/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 19) Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1173/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 20) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs for 2019, issue: 01-16-1174/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 21) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport for 2019, issue: 01-16-1175/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 22) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for 2019, issue: 01-16-1176/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 23) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2019, issue: 01-16-1177/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 24) Report on the Financial Audit of the Office for the Law of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1178/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 25) Report on the financial audit of the Constitutional Court of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1 1179/20 of 11. Six. 2020; 26) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Anti-Doping Control Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-111/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 27) Report on the financial audit of the BiH State Service Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1312/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 28) Report on the Financial Audit of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH 2019, issue: 01-16-1-133/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 29) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Education and Professional Complementary Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-11314/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 30) Report on the financial audit of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1315/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 24 31) Report on the financial audit of the Institute of Measurement of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1316/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 32) Report on the Financial Audit of the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1317/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 33) Report on the financial audit of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari memorial and mesars for victims of genocide from 1995 for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1318/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 34) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Security for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1319/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 35) Report on the financial audit of the State Department of Appeals Committee for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1320/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 36) Report on the Financial Audit of the BiH Appeal Office for 2019, issue: 01-16-1321/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 37) Report on the financial audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1322/20 of 2. Seven. 2020; 38) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-11423/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 39) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Public Procurement Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-114/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 40) Report on the Financial Audit of the Labour and Employment Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-11425/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 41) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Food Safety Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-11428/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 42) Report on the financial audit of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-429/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 43) Report on the financial audit of the Central Harmonisation Unit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1430/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 44) Report on the financial audit of the Central Election Commission for 2019, issue: 01-16-11431/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 45) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1432/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 46) Report on the financial audit of the Human Rights Institution of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1143/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 47) Report on the Financial Audit of the Council for concessions of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-114/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 48) Report on the financial audit of the Competition Council of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1435/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 49) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ombudsman for 2019, issue: 01-16- 1-1436/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 50) Report on the Financial Audit of the Office for Foreign Affairs for 2019, issue: 01-16-11437/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 51) Report on the Financial Audit of the BiH Joint Affairs Service for 2019, issue: 01-16-11438/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 52) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Health Protection Authority for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1439/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 53) Report on the Financial Audit of the Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, Food and Rural Development of BiH for 2019, issue 01-16-11440/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 25 54) Report on the financial audit of the BiH State Aid Council for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1441/20 of 14. Seven. 2020; 55) Report on the financial audit of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1523/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 56) Report on the financial audit of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2019, issue: 01-16-11524/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 57) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Statistics Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1525/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 58) Report on the Financial Audit of the Civil Aviation Directorate for 2019, issue: 01-16-1526/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 59) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Border Police for 2019, issue: 01-16-1527/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 60) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Consumer Protection Institution for 2019: 01-16-1528/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 61) Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Accreditation of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1529/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 62) Report on the financial audit of the Unit for the Implementation of the Institute's Construction Project for the implementation of criminal sanctions, detentions and other BiH measures for 2019, issue 01-16-11530/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 63) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1532/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 64) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2019, issue: 01-16-11533/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 65) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Justice for 2019, issue: 01-16-11534/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 66) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1535/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 67) Report on the financial audit of the 2019 BiH Presidency, issue: 01-16-1-1536/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 68) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1537/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 69) Report on the financial audit of the Court of Justice of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1538/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 70) Report on the financial audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1539/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 71) Report on the Financial Audit of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1540/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 72) Report on the financial audit of the Office for Veterinary Use for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1541/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 73) Report on the Financial Audit of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1542/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 74) Report on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH for 2019, issue: 01-16-1-1543/20 of 24. Seven. 2020; 25. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01.02,03-37-1-1-1873/20 of 23. Nine. 2020; 26. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2019, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-991/20 of 13. Ten. 2020; 26 27. Report on the work of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-2196/20 of 10. 11. 2020; 28. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which "needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to carry out all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia within ten days of the adoption of this initiative with the aim of retegorising the border crossing of Gabe Polje for international passenger traffic or its opening for small-border traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary school pupils", issue: 01-50-1-1787/20 of 8. Nine. 2020; 29. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to start coordination with the competent bodies of entities and canton within ten days of the adoption of this initiative with the aim of enabling the study of a national group of subjects to do so, enrolling official language names in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names listed in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Dayton Agreement), and the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into account the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1797/20 of 9. Nine. 2020; 30. Discussing Edita Đapo parliamentary initiative "indebted by the Council of Ministers of BiH to amend Article 12a) of the Law on Citizenship in such a way as not to require the denial of the citizenship of countries that have changed their legislation and allow multiple citizenship (Danska, Norway, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic and others) or to conclude an emergency bilateral agreement with these countries", issue: 01-50-1934/20 of 2. Ten. 2020; 31. Review of the representative initiative of the HDZBiH Club – HNS "by which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives accepts the European Parliament's declaration of 23. Nine. 2008 and European Parliament Resolution of 2. 4. In 2009, and adopt a Decision marking August 23rd as “European Day of Remembrance of Victims of Totalitarian and Authoritarian Modes”, issue: 01-50-1-1,949.20 of 5. Ten. 2020; 32. Review of the parliamentary initiative Mire Pekić and Branislav Borenović "with the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 35. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 30 days the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Value Added Tax Act (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 9/05, 35/05, 100/08 and 33/17) which would reduce the value added tax rate to all services provided in tourism, catering and passenger transport from 17% to 5%. That VAT rate of 5% in tourism, catering and passenger transport would apply to 31. 12. 2022" number: 01-50-1-965/20 of 8. Ten. 2020; 33. Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH mandates the BiH Council of Ministers within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative to prepare and in parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on how to use and dispose of non-perspective immovable military property, in such a way that the property in question is deemed not to be necessary for the exercise of this property by the Constitution, the international contract and the law established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shall be allocated to the use and availability of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the property is located, exclusively with the aim of protecting this property from further destruction and destruction, its reconstruction and reconstruction or the establishment of the site in question, in accordance with the spatial and plan documentation of the unit of the local self-government on which the property is located, i.e. the establishment of this property of this property of the 2750-19 in the local community: Ten. 2020; 34. Discussing Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative, Denis Zvizdić, "the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers to provide at least once a month with the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with updated information on the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to the pandemic of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), including data on the number of tested, infected, cured and deceased in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, as well as on the measures taken by crisis headquarters at all levels of government, and further measures to protect the health and life of citizens and the recovery of economic damage caused by the pandemic of the entire Bosnia and Herzegovina (COVID-19), plans to take the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special emphasis on the spending of planned budget funds intended for the recovery of the economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic (COVID) No. 11. 2020; 35. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers as soon as possible, not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, the preparation and parliamentary procedure of the new Proposal for the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to bring this regulation into line with new regulations of the European Union, and to bring this area, in terms of international transport and supply of medicinal products and medical resources, into line with the existing situation of the coronovirus pandemic (COVID-19)", issue: 01-50-1-2163/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 36. Consideration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative Denis Zvizdić, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure, as soon as possible, the draft Law on Electronic Communications and Electronic Media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and the recommendations of the Subcommittee on Innovation, Information Society, Social Policy and Public Health, and with respect to earlier suggestions from the opinion of the competent institutions", issue: 01-50-1-2166/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 37. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer, within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, to the parliamentary procedure of the lex specialis Proposal for a law on the prevention of illegal hate speech on the Internet, which will be in line with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, Recommendations and Conventions of the Council of Europe, the acquis of the European Union and with the successful practices of the countries of the European Union which have regulated this area legally", issue: 01-50-1-2167/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 38. Discussing Denis Zvizdić parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt, within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the jurisdiction laid down in Article 9(2) of the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 5/03, 42/03, 26/04, 42/04, 45/06, 88/07, 35/09/59/09, 103/09/87/12, 6/13, 19/16 and 83/17), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Protection of the Environment, Development and Use of Natural Resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01-50-1-2170/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 39. Consideration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative Denis Zvizdić "constituent House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide, within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative, a proposal for a framework law on the Spatial Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 2020 to 2040 in order to establish, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the long-term foundations of the organisation, arrangements, use and protection of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with its natural, environmental and cultural potentials", issue: 01-50-1-2171/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 40. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt this initiative as soon as possible, not later than 60 days after the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 26/04 and 42/04), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that the list, in accordance with international standards, can be implemented by 2023 at the latest," number: 01-50-1-2173/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 41. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's measurement and the draft law You've got the record. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8434	... I have a comment on my parliamentary question concerning the examination of diplomas in BiH institutions, i.e. we know that according to our Club's adopted initiative it was a 90-day deadline, therefore, to establish the criteria and ways in which a diploma check will be carried out in BiH institutions. Given that I have ured and asked what has been done so far, I have received an answer to a parliamentary question from the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers, it actually refers to the actions carried out by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. These two answers are somewhat contradictory and somehow I think these two ministries are playing deaf phones, so people can say, and they're deliberately stalling with this, with this procedure that the public is very interested in, since we know what all the phenomena were in checking diplomas in lower-level institutions, and we're also witnessing an affair in this area. Namely, the Ministry of Justice responded that the draft was established, so that the Ministry of Civil Affairs, acting under the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of 14/07, prepared a draft decision to check all employees' diplomas, delivered 26.08. The BiH Ministry of Justice for its opinion and that the Ministry of Justice has analysed the draft decision and suggestions and submitted another 9/11. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in the opinion. So, the Ministry of Civil Affairs had already had the opinion of the Justice Ministry on the draft decision and should therefore have delivered it to the Council of Ministers for adoption. However, in response to the Council of Ministers, which concerns the activities of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, it is said, therefore, which is the opinion, bearing the date of 26.11.2020, that only after consultations between the institutions and public consultations have been carried out will the Ministry of Civil Affairs prepare a proposal for a decision to check the diploma of all the staff in the institutions and deliver it to the Council of Ministers for consideration. I think that this is, indeed, more than a slow procedure and, in fact, it seems to me that from this response to the activities of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we actually see that there seems to be nothing actually working on it, and this way I would call on the Ministry of Civil Affairs to finally draft a decision on how to conduct the procedure for the examination of diplomas in BiH institutions to finally deliver to the Council of Ministers for adoption. And I would like to make another comment, since we haven't had a session for a long time, so we have received a lot of answers to the parliamentary questions, and it also concerns the initiative that our club has put forward on the amendments to the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, where, therefore, it was meant to amend the provision relating to the rights of parents with physical difficulties. And I got an answer from the Justice Department, so since we're seeing each other for nothing, which is, the initiative was adopted, it seems to me, in February of this year, I got the answer that by the Justice Department, that law is still being prepared and that they've still inserted certain areas and therefore not just this member of the law. However, I would really point out here that the activities of the bill, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, have been slowed down, I mean needlessly and called in response to the hoof etc. I think it's really groundless in today's era of these modern 31 communications, I don't think that can be an excuse. So, if here's ten months, then it doesn't deliver in the procedure one of these important laws, it's especially important, so for the parents of these children, I think it's really devastating and embarrassing, and this is how I appeal that the law is finally delivered in the process, because we're witnessing that after two years the laws are in the process and that it's lost somewhere, and that nobody cares about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8435	Thank you, counselor. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać came to comment, please have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8436	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I submitted in writing, asked the Ministry of Security, and I was interested in the ethnic, ethnic composition of the executives and state officials to the level of assistant directors in all management organisations within the Ministry of Security. This way, thanks to the representatives of the Ministry of Security for a truly high-quality and exhaustive response, which showed one still inappropriate situation, I am sorry that the minister is not here to make it, to try to get an additional answer. The answer shows that in one of the administrative organisations, in particular at the Police Support Agency, there is a drastic violation of the national structure, as the director of Bošnjak, the deputy director of Hrvat, and the assistant directors of Boršnjak and Hrvat are also. I also know that this situation in this above-mentioned management organisation has been inherited by, from the time that Mr. Mektić was run by the ministry, but I really hope and appeal that the Ministry of Security will change this damaged structure in the management organisation as soon as possible, i.e. the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8437	Thank you, counselor. The following for the debate, commentary Sanja Vulić reported, you have the words of the representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8438	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto, I would also like to congratulate you on taking over the House Presidency and wish you successful and productive work. My comments refer to the Minister's reply, Mrs. Ankica Gudeljević, my question referred to the work of the Medicines Agency, as well as, of course, since we have the Health Sector, the way in which all the medical resources that come through the donation, drugs and other things are shown, and what I was interested in is whether the Resord Ministry will react when it comes to a possible shift of directors, given that we all know through the media and the public that Mr. Zolak in all these investigations is related to disputed respirators and so on, which I find it unacceptable to be in such affairs someone at the head of such an important and valid agency. I thank Mrs. Gudeljević and her team at the Ministry, I have received a really exhaustive and detailed answer, and when it comes to what 32 I was interested in and what remains of the enigma, is, uh, in response to the ministry, it is said that the director's work is being decided by the Management Board of the institution, i.e. the Medicines Agency, so here remains the question - who is in this Management Board and why aren't they doing their job? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8439	Thank you, counselor. The next comment was by MP Nikola Lovrinović, please have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8440	Thank you. So I've got an answer to two questions, asked questions, and many more are waiting, but these two are very interesting. So I asked the prosecutor's office for the status of the Franciscans addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2013 for the launch of investigative actions and for the finding of the head of crime in Fojnica in 1993 when Fr. Nikica Miličević was killed, and Fr. Leon Migić was the chaplain, as far as I know, the case was led by prosecutor Mirko Lečić. I have received a response that I am pleased with, and I will be most pleased when, the answer is the answer – after having seen the question asked, as well as the insight into the prosecution's record, it has been found that the subject relating to the event, this event and the parliamentary question in the status is open. I'll be perfectly pleased when someone is on this matter, or on this case closed. And the second question I asked was the maintenance of that so-called. An anti-fascist protest there somewhere in May, remember there, and there was, there was one answer sent to run investigative actions, so I repeated after a certain time to see what happened, and here I am now responsible for the initiation of criminal proceedings against responsible persons, public gathering organizers for the existence of a reasonable suspicion that the perpetrators violated Article 8. Law on violations against public order and peace in Canton of Sarajevo. So, and that's something, I wish I'd got some more detailed information about the organizers against which it was launched, the association, etc. And now you see, therefore, what happened then, how it was actually illegal, but there it was let go to happen in Sarajevo at the time when we talked about these topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8441	Thank you, counsel. The next comment came from a representative named Zukan Helez. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8442	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I asked Minister Staši Košarac and it said – how many percent participate in the creation of a total or gross social product or of the GDP of BiH entities Republika Srpska and the Federation? 33 Earlier I asked the question of how many percentages participate in exports and imports of entities simply to find out if some parts of BiH spend more than they do or earn. In this issue of the creation of the GDP, Mr. Minister did not answer me, but in every bad case, something was good, his answer was approximately paraphrasing, that he was not interested in entities, nor was he interested in the state of BiH, so I am happy that the minister finally loved his country of BiH and grew up as a real statesman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8443	Thank you, counsel. The following comment was received by a distinguished representative of Nada Mladina. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8444	Thank you very much, I warmly welcome you all. I have actually had two answers to the question, several questions raised about the old foreign savings, especially for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights decision, Ališić and others, and for the protection of the personal data of our savings who have been handed over to the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia. I am partially satisfied with the answer, I received an answer from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Human Rights and Refugees, they participated in working groups, and it is very encouraging to me if the results are that the Council of Ministers formed an expert task force, and I am grateful for that. It turns out that I have received an answer that can encourage me to monitor the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights' decision in the Ališić case and others. What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has succeeded, it is encouraging to prevent the European Court of Justice's interruption of supervision of the implementation of this decision in the sixth month of this year and to hand over certain acts diplomatically by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that nearly two thousand of our citizens, the savings, have been rejected by the Republic of Serbia and, hopefully, that remains an open issue, because I am afraid, not only I but those who understand it more and have been implemented for many years on this, that this does not ultimately remain a debt on the burden of our state of BiH. The answer to one question I asked about the destruction of the harmful ambrosia plant, harmful to human health at the time of its intense bloom. I got the answer, although I'm talking to probably all the other representatives of the competent institutions, this is a matter addressed to an unsuspecting institution and to the one who is involved in the protection of plant health, so they answered me that they can't answer that. Besides, I'll repeat my questions. And for the protection of data, I will address the Civil Data Protection Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8445	Thank you, counsel. With this, we exhausted our comments on the answers received. 34 Before we move on to the remaining points of the agenda of today's session, on the basis of Article 27(f) I shall limit the duration of the debate with all remaining points to five minutes. We're moving on to three agendas, Ad. 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2144/20 of 3. 11. 2020 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 04.11.2020. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Representative Saša Magazinović, go ahead, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8447	I welcome you, the chairman, you and the deputies, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers. I will, this may be the shortest explanation of one law in one sentence, and I am not answering the next item of the agenda, since you count this as an explanation for that law. Guys, we have big salaries, we have significant privileges, it's not right that we have the right to take jubilee awards, it's not moral, it's not human, it's greedy. If it means anything to anyone, let's get those 800 or 900 marks together, and we'll give him that money, but I'm asking you to put an end to this and show at least a symbolic way that politics can have a human face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8448	Thank you, counsel. Damir Arnaut, agent, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8449	Thank you, Chairman. So, the more the question is to the promoter, I will, of course, support the emergency procedure and the bill proposal, I did so in the last session, in the meantime and gave up these jubilee awards, so my voting and my actions are quite clear on this matter, but I am now not clear on what happened, the SDP Club in the previous session in March 2017 submitted the same bill to abolish the jubilee prizes by emergency procedure, and it went to the House of Nations and the Budget of the House of Nations unanimously supported the Law by the emergency procedure. In the first reading of the House of Peoples adopted the Law of 9 votes "for" and 3 "against" only, which in the House of Peoples was the vast majority and then in the second reading at the House of Peoples, in September 2017, a legislative procedure with the reason that the proposing representative did not appear at the House of Nations session. It's not clear to me if it really happened, uh, that the proposing's representative didn't come to the House of People's session at the time, because this Law 35 was literally, but it can't be said a step, one, the age of adoption, and then a legislative procedure was suspended because of one banality that non-proposal doesn't appear, and I'm sorry that it wasn't an opportunity at the time. I didn't even notice that it happened then, because I'm saying I already gave up that jubilee fee, I'd always give up, uh, but here it is, I don't know what happened then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8450	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. We are concluding the debate on the motion to vote for an emergency procedure on this bill, so I ask you to make a statement. Of the 32 present – 15 for, 10 against, 7 abstentions. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, RS doesn't have one-third, so the votes "yes". We're postponing an agreement for one of the next sessions on this proposal. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2145/20 of 3. 11. 2020 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 04.11.2020. I'm opening an emergency hearing. I don't see any reports, I'm closing the hearing. Please state our request for an emergency procedure. Of the 32 present – for 15, against 9.8 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is no entity, Republika Srpska does not have one third. So we're leaving for a later match. We're getting to the point of the five agenda, Ad. 5. Request by Agent Denis Zvizdić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2310/20 of 8. 12. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8453	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law meets both alternative conditions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which are related to the adoption of the urgency of the procedure. The first is that it is a proposal for a high-level emergency law, and I really think it is such a law, since the current situation concerning the migrant crisis, especially in Canton of Sarajevo and the UN-Sancanton requires an emergency reaction from the authorities, is being expressed especially after more frequent information on the conduct of more criminal acts and violations by migrants staying in BiH, including the recent death case that occurred here in Otes in Canton Sarajevo. Another business condition for the urgency of the procedure is that the law is formulated in a simple way, and can be considered in one reading and it is indeed so because there is only one amendment and two amendments, and I will talk about the law after the vote, although it is actually intended by a general prevention to deter migrants from committing criminal acts on BiH territory.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8454	Thank you fellow chairor and proposer of this agenda item. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I'd like to make a statement about the request to consider an emergency procedure. Of the 32 present – 15 for, versus 7, abstentions 10. There is a general, there is no entity majority of Republika Srpska. So we're leaving for one of the next points. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for Amendments II, III, IV and V to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives of the SDPBiH Club, issue: 01-01-1-2070/20 of 20. Ten. 2020, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 26.10.1920. The Constitutional Commission found that the amendment did not comply with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and did not accept the principles of the amendment. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Representative Saša Magazinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8456	So I'm not talking about amendments, I'm talking about opinions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8457	That's right. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8458	The opinion is negative, and I call on the House to reject it and to give MPs the opportunity to discuss amendments to the Constitution, in particular to be done by representatives from SNSD, PDP and SDS, as the co-author of this proposal is Milorad Dodik and then presidents of SDS and PDP, therefore, to just support what their presidents have created.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8459	I'd like to thank the representative. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8460	Thank you, Chairman. First, the Opinion of the ustavnopravni Law, therefore, is about the proposal for constitutional amendments and although the Constitutional Commission should in principle also be made to declare whether, in principle, the relevant proposal is in line with the Constitution, given that the constitutional amendments in question were correct and were, in essence, the Constitutional Commission declared themselves content. I have to say, I'm correcting the false assumption of the alleged authorship of what Mr. Magazinović is trying to do very inappropriately at this point to Mr. Dodik and I don't know who it is. Mr. Dodik and the SNSD in which, uh, he took a serious part it ended up being spent. It is not, therefore, entirely inappropriate that these proposals of yours that are so, unfortunately, bad that I think the Constitutional Commission has made the right decision, because they are, not now, not to enter into solutions, but in that, legally speaking of the aspect of legal profession and techniques, so inappropriately prepared this, and the way you imagine constitutional reforms is too much and I think that you are breaking down political dialogue, and in particular the attempt of some constitutional reforms, this is not going anywhere in the world like this, and especially not in this complex situation. And I would ask you, Mr. Magazinović, to really... actually do how, what do you want with the reputation of the SDP, but this is also going in the direction of breaking that party's reputation, I wouldn't comment on it, but don't put such bad solutions to people they don't belong to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8461	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8462	So, the words “inappropriately, abject, in the content of the bad, ” I can accept that it is your position, but I would be careful in your place when you say it, since you are saying it to your President Milorad Dodik, who is co-author of this solution. Imagine what Sanja Vulić can answer you, it can be a problem within the club that one attacks the president and the other defends him. So, once again, I call on you to support the solution in which your president took part, that we are talking about him, and if you have changed your mind, you are not the first one, nor the last to do so, but it is unacceptable to refuse to discuss constitutional amendments by saying that they are not, have no constitutional basis, it is just as unusual. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8463	Thank you. Representative Sanja Vulić, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8464	Thank you, Chairman. Well, at first, I would like to say, uh, before the defense, as my colleague said, that I am asking the proposings whether we have the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Presidency of BiH, given that the materials of which are proposed by the senders, the opinion is given by the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, and in accordance with the well-known Rules of Procedure of the House, a fellow member of Article 141(2). Also, Mr. Magazinović, you suggest that the jubilee awards received once in ten, say, years, and here are proposed to double the number of members of both homes who are likely to work voluntarily to save, because these amendments have not defined whether they will work volunteerly or will receive salaries as well as we do, when you have also not calculated what is the cost for Parliament and the state, generally for all of our citizens. Since it is clear that the debate on these amendments is a clear distraction from a poor SDP score in the last held elections and statistics that you have suggested, there is no CCI and who makes cartoons there, of course here is another one in a series of cartoons and media presentation space, which is your legitimate right, but in this case you just copied something from earlier and we do not have to waste absolutely time on such proposals. As for, as you say, defenses, I have no need to defend anyone, you have a problem defending undefense, you have a problem that you suggest impossible to realize, that time you're talking about was past. If these proposals had been productive and implemented and had been in the interest of all the peoples living in BiH, they would have been realised. What you don't know or don't want to know, President Dodik and the SNSD leadership are constantly pointing out that there's been a rejuvenation in the SNSD, and when it says rejuvenation, it doesn't just say order of order, it gives us a chance to decide a lot of things on our own. What you think is that we're nodding our heads, that's your problem, but what I'm sure is that you, according to that song from "Dugmić" – What you would give if you were in my place, in this case in the plural of what you would give to our place and that you have a leader whom you can follow as we follow yours and that is broad to that extent that you can accept the opinion of something younger and different than it was or what it was, and that time that was past were totally different conditions, were totally different circumstances and you were definitely not invited to talk about the past as some young man who should take care of the future of the state and all of us to give an example of young people what we should do for a perspective. I don't think that the perspective is to take a jubilee prize to some lady who, for example, accounts for our salary, and that in that case you do – I'm fair, moral, and I'm going to pass on my jubilee prize to someone. I'd pass it on, say, to that lady if I had as much internship as you do. And once again, uh, when you're already attacking us and the defense and everything else, find some valid arguments, don't pull this out of the archive, so brothers back twenty years when you get into the records all the same and you're talking, so no wonder we're tapping in place, so it's all the same, one and the same, just shooting, one have each other, give me just two productive laws or decisions that this House has made in the interest of all citizens and that they've all been satisfied. Of course, there aren't any, because this kind of empty straw gives you publicity, and the citizens don't have anything and that's why you go the way you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8465	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8466	Let me just answer two questions and let me get this over with. So the question was, does he have the presidency's opinion? Yes there is, and you can have it, you type on YouTube, you write Milorad Dodik – April package and you hear everything that man said about this, so your president. Ad. 2. Željko Komšić – April package, you all hear what the man said about it. Ad. 3. Šefik Džaferović – April package, you hear everything. By the way, I was here in Parliament that night when the aprilski package was adopted and I know how the SNSD Club, I must honestly say, fulfilled the agreement and supported it unlike some others who killed that opportunity for BiH. So, I have the Presidency's opinion, and I have your president's opinion. It's been prescribed something from before, exactly, that I didn't hide it, we hide it all along, and we say that this proposal, the only one that was close to being adopted in Parliament, which it created with other leaders, is your President Milorad Dodik. You may not have been politically active at the time, but BiH's political life does not begin from the moment you entered parliament. So, your President Milorad Dodik is the creator and signator of this proposal and it's okay to say, I don't agree with that anymore, I'm against my proposal, neither the first nor the last to give up on myself. And as for the jubilee prizes, even though we had the chance to talk about it in the previous one, I don't want to end it for the woman in the archives, but for you and me and this law is about only me and you and we vote on it today, and we don't vote on drivers, and I don't know who's employed in BiH institutions, and they know what the vote is best for you by taking and reading the proposal you're voting on.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8467	Thank you. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8468	Thank you, Chairman. Once again, I would like to correct this false allegation and the sad attempt of Mr Magazinović to instruct, since we are talking today about the SDP proposal, the SDP constitutional amendment, and his very, very failed attempt to introduce these solutions to Mr Dodik and SNSD, if anything in this country is crystal clear, are the SNSD and Milorad Dodik's views on the issue of the Constitution, the organisation of BiH, and in particular the competences. What you're saying, sir, is, he's well commented on a political life actor, they're not even April what they used to be, but it's just that it's not clear to you and thanks to such a, tawdry confusion and not being clear to you among other things, you're not an actor, but it's a waste of time on such suggestions. I would also like to correct what I think is completely inappropriate, not getting into solutions at all, imagine how, you see, you Parliament, how you see what, it's completely incomprehensible to me that in the proposal, this, you came up with in such a complex state of jurisdiction, you could even be defined by 40 laws, completely incredible solutions, you would put the names of the law into the Constitution. I think this is what the lawyers were wondering about, that someone's thought of it, that's not, that's some of your additions to some kind of, uh, totally impressive display of ignorance of constitutional matter, unfortunately. And as for these, here I was holding back I didn't answer the bill's proposals,...you mention the savings. Whoever here has not voted to abolish this, as it is called, the BiH concessions Commission, which 15, for as long as there are more than 15 million marks, has spent no law, no decision, excuse me, on the subject for which it was founded, has for me excluded himself from discussing matters of savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8469	I ask you to observe the agenda, and on the agenda is Opinion, negative Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much. Representative Aida Baručija, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8470	predsjedavajući, I was just about to say a violation of Rule 77.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8471	And then you give up now, because there's someone who takes care of that injury, I guess. Thank you very much, counsel. I don't see any more logs on this agenda. I am concluding the debate under point 6. Representative Damir Arnaut, you later called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8472	... this comment – there is someone who decides on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please do not report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then why do you need this button? Don't introduce censors to the MPs to point to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I'll need a break to... if you continue censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8473	Whatever you need, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is your right, I have not said that there is someone who determines what is with the Rules of Procedure, but there is a Rules of Procedure that has clearly defined it, there is also a chairman who is also obliged to take care of the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and therefore I have already been warned, I have only told the honourable representative that it is already on the same, because she has already said that she has already been commented... there are no other excess comments. 41 We move to the point of the seven agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Darijana Filipović, Alma Čolo, Nada Mladina and Edita Đapo, issue: 01-02-1408/20 of 9. Seven. 2020, with the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights At the 12th session of the House, held on 15 September 2020, no negative opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights was adopted, and the Committee was tasked with drawing up a new opinion. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion, the Committee did not accept the principles of the bill for the second time. I am opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. I don't see any reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for making legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH, issue: 01/1-50-3-13/20, link number: 03/7-02-4-367/18 of 16. Nine. 2020. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8476	The word has a respected chairman, Mrs. Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8477	Thank you very much. I will try very briefly, because here I am in conversation with our legislative sector and with proposals, here are the materials that we worked on the Constitutional Commission, our colleague had a certain amendment proposal, colleague Čola, so she gave up on them. But on the proposal for a legislative sector, we adopted one Amendment I proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions, and it reads: Article 44a. which becomes articles 44 is amended and reads: Use of expression in male and female: (1) The regulation uses a word that has the gender neutral meaning of a person. 42 (2) The words for transparency in a regulation referred to in a single generation shall, without discrimination, relate to both male and female. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 44 is deleted so far. The proposed amendments are actually a new aspect which the Commission could not take into account, and is a correction in Articles 44 and 44a. Unique rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions by proposing new articles 44 that combine solutions from existing articles in a simpler way and prescribe the use of expressions in male and female. So that's this one amendment, so here's the MPs that, in order to, here, make these regulations according to the Unique Rules, we still have some kind of unique views. Given that this Single Rules refer to the creation of legislative projects, that is, this regulation, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and that here the Constitutional Commission of our House of Representatives has proposed, here I also propose that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH delivers to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH institutions to discuss and adopt the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is because it is about the rules that are being adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I am concluding the debate under point 8. We're going to the point of the nine agenda, Ad. Nine. Report by the College of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal of Representatives Damir Arnaut for the entry of a new item into the agenda of the 13th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Discussing Damir Arnaut's representative's initiative, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to implement, within ten days of the date of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia with a view to the retegorisation of the border crossing point on international passenger traffic or its opening for retail traffic, and in any event of the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of pupils of primary and secondary schools", issue: 01-50-1787/20 of 15. Ten. 2020 After the last House session did not require an entity majority in the first round of the House College vote as a committee did not reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Damir Arnaut. The College's report you received, the debate is over, we remain to declare ourselves later in the second round of voting on the proposal of Representative Damir Arnaut, this will come when we declare ourselves, so, after the session is completed. 43 We move to the 10th agenda, Ad. Ten. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Mirko Šarović's proposal to include a new item in the 13th session of the House of Representatives' agenda: Information from the Central Election Commission on the attempts of electoral fraud through the vote by mail outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the measures taken and the plan for further measures to prevent electoral fraud, Proposer: Representative Mirko Šarović, issue: 01-50-1-2002/20 of 15. Ten. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8494	By accident. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8495	Then delete. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8496	Here's every time it comes to audit reports and audit findings, I can't look a little bit at the materials delivered because of the fact that I think this topic, and that's all I've said on several occasions, it's really not interesting and it's probably boring for most people to read, and I think we should pay attention to it and how we should pay attention to it, because it also shows the way BiH institutions function. From the Commission's summary report on budget and finance itself, we see, therefore, that seven, meaning, the BiH institution has received an opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on the case, so it is in fact a step towards the fact that the opinion is negative and what is particularly worrying is the fact that, let's say, among these institutions, that is, the BiH Ministry of Justice institutions, which, when it comes to law enforcement, should be an example to all other institutions. But here's the conclusion on the basis of these reports, because we did, therefore, public hearings for these institutions. And what I would also like to draw attention to is that from year to year, they repeat one and the same failures and violations of laws that should be alphabets, so the law in BiH institutions and when it comes to legal issues, and also when it comes to accounting and accounting affairs, and then I find it really strange that they repeat one and the same miss and violation of legal regulations year after year. So here we see, whether, in some seven areas such as financial governance and control, internal audit, the missing internal rules are therefore, we lack internal rules for, in certain law enforcement institutions, then weaknesses in the application of public procurement orders, which are constantly repeated, etc. etc. Of course, in this point 3.4, a review of the system measures that would eliminate the causes of the repetition of certain audit findings is given, and I hope that the MPs of this House are also aware of one part of our guilt, which is why certain failures are repeated year after year, because we simply do not pass laws that would ensure that the situation in certain areas is corrected and that, therefore, no more such failures are repeated. I therefore hope that, in the future, when certain laws come on the agenda, MPs will be aware that we are really working in the interests of the citizens, because it is not in the citizens' interest to violate the rules on labour in the state service or to play the provisions of very imaginative employment on the reserve list, etc. So, in fact, hiring an increased number of employees, not to control the spending of money in the use of official cars, etc. etc. So, I just hope that in the future we will follow these recommendations, therefore, at those points that apply to our obligations. And here at the same time, I will propose one of the conclusions, since we have united the debate on these two points of the agenda, and the report on the review of the Ombudsman in the report itself has been found that the Law on the Defence has not been amended, more significant and long years, the solutions that the internal organisation is no longer eligible for today's time, and therefore we propose, therefore, that within 90 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, the amendment of the Law on the BiH Law on the Defence of Labour in order to improve the work in order to create assumptions for internal reorganisation. Here, I'm just asking the service to protocol this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8497	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Krišto, the chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8498	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very This is through these financial audit reports for 2019 I will briefly look back, this, sub-paragraph 67, preparing for the session, here, I saw that they relate, meaning, to the annual audit reports and on the main findings and recommendations of the 2019 audit, and I will briefly comment on the report on the audits relating to the BiH Presidency. In addition to the fact that the report clearly shows an increase in the budget of this institution in 2019 amounting to 423,000 KM compared to the previous one, and most of the above, we see that it relates to the payment of salaries and fees for 25 newly employed members of the BiH presidency. I will look more closely at the detail concerning the institution's appointment of ambassadors and other international representatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Decisions on the appointment of ambassadors and other international representatives of BiH, the conditions required for candidates in addition to the rest are: that, let's say, the person is a BiH citizen, that he has a university degree, and that it is not subject to criminal proceedings. The auditors stated in their report – the audit carried out found that the procedure for the appointment of the ambassadors of the BiH Presidency did not fully implement the Decision in the procedure of appointment of ambassadors and other international representatives of BiH, did not check the conditions that a person must fulfil in order to be appointed ambassadors, the audit did not present any evidence that the presidency for future ambassadors sought evidence of compliance with the conditions in connection with and citizenship, professional training, language skills, non-compliance with criminal proceedings. But since we have witnessed the appointment of persons who do not have adequate training and have said that they will acquire it while they are serving as ambassadors, I can also say that it is not surprising that the auditors of the institution could not have even presented the evidence required and which implies the conditions laid down in Article 3. Decisions on the appointment process and other international representatives of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8499	Thank you. The word is Mrs Ljubica Miljanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8500	Thank you, Chairman. It is a clear rule that every year among the reports of the Financial Business Audit Office, we also have audit opinions with a reserve and a distraction based on financial business and compliance for some institutions and that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and more and more the Ministry of Security. The implementation of the BiH institutions' budget, which received an opinion with a reserve and opinion with a distraction, is 370,248,899,00 KM or 43% of total execution. The level of implementation of the 2018 revision recommendations is problematic, so 58% of the recommendations made in the past and earlier years are realised, but their implementation is ongoing. This percentage contains a number of fully implemented recommendations and a number of recommendations that are under way, if we add a percentage of 34% of unrealised recommendations, we get a picture of the situation and the assumption that most of these recommendations are actually unrealised. The analysis of the recommendations made with regard to the 2018 Budget Implementation Report found that a total of 53 recommendations were made and only six recommendations were implemented. So this is a very bad picture of the realisation of previous recommendations, which according to the structure of the report, and more and more tradition, mainly refer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security. When it comes to multi-annual capital investments of institutions with significant resources for this purpose, only 7.2% in relation to the available funds of 171,050,579,00 KM due to the slowness and lack of proactive access of competent institutions, the funds remain unrealised for years, although other priority projects could be financed. Also, reading the eye report burned down the data on the amount of undrawn loans and projects totalling 793,630,878,00 KM and the amount paid for non-engaged credit assets that were 7,273,068.00 KM in 2019. 52 As regards the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Reserve Opinions, the Ministry carried out internal transfers of state officials who were on probation, which resulted in the activation of reserve lists and the reception of five additional civil servants, although they did not qualify under the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and sublegal acts, paragraphs 5 and 4. of this Report. The ministry has not carried out activities to implement the financial management and control system prescribed by the BiH Finance Act. The Ministry's internal audit function has not been established, as shown in point 3.4. Reports. A person's engagement under the operating contract at the systematised random places, slowness in the realization of the multi-annual capital investment point 5.1.6. Reports and shortcomings identified in the procurement process, point 6. Reports. From around 30 recommendations from the 2018 Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fully implemented only one recommendation in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8501	I thank the MPs. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on these agenda points. We're going to the 25th agenda, Ad. 25. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01.02,03-37-1-1-1873/20 of 23. Nine. 2020 The College of the House has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights to consider this Report. The commission delivered its opinion, the commission did not adopt the report. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 26. Ad. 26. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2019, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-991/20 of 13. Ten. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8506	Thank you. So, I handed this initiative over at the beginning of the school year, and that's exactly what I was talking about, and I was saying that it was necessary to adopt this when it was first considered that children would not have waited for the winter break, and if I hadn't insisted on it at the House sessions, that would have happened. However, by continuing to repeat and potentiate this problem, the Ministry of Security also reacted that I was familiar with media reports that the border crossing was open for the needs of these children so that she could go to school one kilometer instead of 14km around. I think that it will never be clear to me why anyone voted against this initiative, because it concerned the children, concerned their need to go to school one kilometer, and not 14 km around and it is unacceptable and unacceptable that anyone should vote against it, but here is another indicator of what some people's consciousness is, and I think that, again, although there are Midian reports that the initiative is implemented in practice, I think this should remain on the agenda, that there should be a record of how someone pleaded on this issue and finally, if there is a re-communication in practice so that the competent ministry and the competent services have the position of this House. Thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8507	Thank you, counsel. I don't see anyone signing up anymore, I'm closing a debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 29. Ad. 29. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to start coordination with the competent bodies of entities and canton within ten days of the adoption of this initiative with the aim of enabling the study of a national group of subjects to do so, enrolling official language names in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names listed in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Dayton Agreement), and the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into account the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1797/20 of 9. Nine. 2020 The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Human Rights to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the initiative has been adopted and addressed to the House for further procedure. I'm opening an initiative debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 30. Ad. 30. Discussing Edita Đapo parliamentary initiative "indebted by the Council of Ministers of BiH to amend Article 12a) of the Law on Citizenship in such a way as not to require the denial of the citizenship of countries that have changed their legislation and allow multiple citizenship (Danska, Norway, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic and others) or to conclude an emergency bilateral agreement with these countries", issue: 01-50-1934/20 of 2. Ten. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8511	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, this initiative is nothing new before you, colleagues and colleagues, and especially those who were in the House of Representatives in the previous term, also one, three times, the HDZ Club – the HNS has tried, therefore, to be seen according to this, under the terms of the allegations, obligations and this Parliament when it comes to documents brought by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. We failed last time and in this session of mandates when we were somewhere around the date on which this initiative was addressed, which is August 23rd, also to have the initiative accepted, some colleagues did not like the explanation that was going along with the initiative at the time. For this time, therefore, here's the club, and here's what we've personally organised for the re-initiative to happen, and we're reading on this date, that is, according to this initiative without any explanation, and in addition, we've only delivered certain documents on this date. So this is the date that the European Parliament adopted and it marks it, we suggest that it also happens. In some colleagues, this initiative is causing a misunderstanding in terms of which they say it is a revision of history, that it is equalization, therefore, fascists and anti-fascists. So it has nothing to do with it at all, nor was it intended to, nor did the European Parliament, when he was making such a decision on this day. So, we're talking about victims, we're talking about victims, and we're wearing a title, and the conclusions that are attached to this initiative just give us the possibility that the Council of Ministers can find ways to mark this date, what kind of character it will have in our documents of marking significant dates, holidays, holidays, but whatever you want. And on the other hand, one conclusion offers one possibility, a recommendation to lower bodies, lower authorities, above all local self-government, that, according to the events of eto seventy years ago, they refer to the victims of these events, and that means they try to find a way to justify the working bodies, whether the council, municipal councils or chieftains that would work to collect documents legally, legitimately, multiethnically, multiculturally, however you wish, so that once they honor those victims who are all over BiH and are not known for the trail. Many associations and associations, institutions collect these data, work, have problems. Why are they having problems? Because it's not uncertified, because it's not arranged properly. There are legal stops that these bodies that work, for example, on municipal councils, as proposed here, have reports that are submitted to municipal councils, but that they work through prosecutors and courts when such remains are encountered and that it is perfectly legal and transparent and that in this way 56 are removed from the Stigm on many of the issues that are being opened and here talking in this House, let's say, when there was the marking of Blyburg or the memories of these victims or Masses and so on or some others, therefore, the observation of these topics. I therefore propose that, regardless of these opinions, it is, therefore, opinions that should not be accepted and that this initiative be accepted, and that the Council of Ministers draws up and that the way we pay attention to this, therefore, happens on that day. And if we are not mandatory now, because we are not a member of the European Union, there in the European Parliament and the European Commission's documents there is a proposal to do that and countries that are on their way to European integration, why I don't see reasons, I repeat and I end it again, it's just about giving a debt to the victims, and the victims were. The victim, therefore, is unable to dispute this and the European Parliament's decision does not apply to our space, we can now open the story of our space, but therefore it refers to the wider space of the EU and Europe in general, the world and I see no reason to approach it in any other way than to accept that this day is marked in a dignified way, the way it proposes by the Council of Ministers, that it is the Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Here, I don't see any reason, but I'll finish with one sentence, which I found suitable for this address. So, like this, we'll all go through time, but we have a commitment both to the past and to all the victims, but also to generations that come to keep a living culture of memory and respect for the dead. So, as one contribution to what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8512	Thank you, counsel. The speaker, a colleague of Radmanović, answered the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8513	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the debate of the last time, as some who tell the same story five times, and it is incorrect, but I will remind you that often in this House, those who insist on the differences make even greater differences than we have, and we have a difference in BiH, but this is not a question that needs to be on the agenda to make even greater differences. Greater differences are made by those who want to equalize everything they call totalitarian regimes. There is no likeness to fascism and no one will ever vote and neither has the European Parliament voted for such a thing, this is where it is offered. It's not enough that the fifth time the same thing suggests, it's not enough even what the two commissions say we shouldn't adopt it, but we're going back to the session to try to adopt it. It is not good for the current time for BiH to make a difference about this, and we have them. I call on Parliament to vote against this initiative by taking care of what the two committees have said, one common and one of our representative homes. I invite you not to go deeper into these discussions, because we're going to divide even more, but I'm going to end up like I started, nothing is the same or similar to fascism, and it's trying to put itself in the same basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8514	Thank you, fellow Radmanović. A correction of the wrong allegations was reported by MP Lovrinović, please. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8515	There's nothing like it or the same fascism except totalitarianism, and maybe worse. So again, I repeat, is that you will not, colleague Radmanović, that it is totalitarian, that totalitarian regimes, we are not only talking about ours here in BiH, or the former Yugoslavia, committed a crime, that these crimes are not the same, so these crimes should be forgotten, and perhaps there were even more than those who committed fascists. But here we are not to enter into the debate, I repeat again, so we are talking about the Day of Remembrance of the victims committed by totalitarian regimes, and they have committed and you can't do it... I'm not talking about the number, the quantity, the proportions, anything, so the crimes were committed, and they are crimes, and you can't deny it, neither are we in this Parliament, and that's what the European Parliament thought. Don't beat the European Parliament that he's been discussing another idea and comparing them with, I don't know, larger proportions of one or more injuries. So, I repeat again, I'm talking about the day of memory, I'm not talking about the debate, the revisions, the comparisons, etc. etc. I'm talking about the Day of Remembrance of the victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, the victims of fascism were being talked about and tested, therefore, and praised to Bog. So, if someone did bigger or smaller, here's the first one I don't want in that kind of debate, if you don't want them either, I'm talking, I repeat, about a day of memory and nothing more and nothing more, if we adopt it we'll bring in a way that we'll mark it and that's that, and probably some other points of the agenda for this kind of debate, and not this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8516	Thank you. Representative, colleague Radmanović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8517	I don't think that any crime done should ever be skipped, we should not forget that we shouldn't and I didn't even talk about it, and I don't know why Mr. Lovrinović mentioned me at all when I didn't even look at him when I was talking about this, let alone mention it. So, all crimes must be punished no matter where or how they are done, but here is not the situation, here is the equalization of conquerors and liberators, the equalization of those who have committed the Holocaust, genocide and others with those who have probably sinned in achieving their power. So these are huge differences, it's not even about reviewing, we should know those who mention what the revision is, it's just that there's nothing that can be evened with fascism in the past so far known. So, I'm staying with what I said at the beginning, and I don't need to adopt this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8518	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez, hearing. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8519	The Honorable Chairman, I may have thought about whether it was a replica or a discussion, and since I have the right and the discussion, that, I'll be brief, but clear and accurate. 58 I fear, Mr Lovrinović, if we adopt this initiative in order to condemn the work and action of certain parties currently registered in BiH, which are receiving elections and which are currently part of the ruling coalition, especially what the heads of individual parties have, as you say, been part of such totalitarian regimes, deciding in them and passing on a rich experience to today's work and action of certain parties. And what my colleague Radmanović was saying, a little deeper when we came in, those parties, some of them made crimes in the past war, they had their own, their departments of military formations recognised or unrecognized by the state, I wouldn't go into it, they also committed crimes. So the best thing for you is to give up that idea. And about equating angifascism and totalitarianism, how you, uh, define it nowhere in the world goes, nor can it pass, it is known exactly what fascism is and I think that over the past 30 years in BiH through this totalitarian system, in fact, some of the fascist actions have created certain totalitarian parties that act today and what we have to fight against. That's why I'm asking you not to accidentally, not to give Bog if this initiative is adopted, so you don't take the auto goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8520	Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8521	... my colleague Helez, does this not go anywhere but in the European Parliament? So you didn't even read what the contribution was and what it was, what was being debated there, what people discussed, which is why they came to this date, so you didn't read anything, so read it again. And you're saying this now and you're tying it up for 20 centuries that I'm just afraid to go into that kind of debate and I don't want it, but here, you're encouraging it all the time. So again I'm saying, that's not the point, but you're, uh, potential, you're telling me about some auto goal because you're actually from a party that belongs to that mile, because you've done it before. So, I'm not talking to you personally, but I'm talking, so you're not going to open that story, but I'm talking not on this subject again, but we're going to put the agenda on, so we're going to discuss who did what he did and what crimes he did both in the war and in the war, so this is about the war behind World War II. So you haven't read it again. And to my colleague, Radmanović, I called you because I'm the promoter and you've talked about it, and yet you haven't proved to me anything that I suggest to do with this to balance fascism and antifascism. I don't know, you said, equities, I don't talk about it again, I'm fifth, I repeat it ten times on several occasions when I suggested that I, that I don't have any intention, neither is it the subject of this initiative, nor can I repeat myself under this point of the agenda, no equality, and... may if you want to discuss this debate, August 23rd, the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes and nothing more, and you can't deny that there were none, and that's all the story, sir, so no other story of anything else I'm still discussing, or suggest, don't add what I didn't say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8522	Agent Helez, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8523	Mr. Lovrinović, the party I belong to is the heritage of a treatment of antifascism and this is clearly written in our programme, and I would like to remind you that you and your boss have a lot more internship in the Union of Communists and the Communist Party than I have in years. 59 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8524	I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We've reached point 32. At this point, I'm taking a break by 4:00. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, here's because we have a quorum to continue with the session. We've reached point 32. Ad. Thirty-two. Review of the parliamentary initiative Mire Pekić and Branislav Borenović "with the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 35. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 30 days the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Value Added Tax Act (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 9/05, 35/05, 100/08 and 33/17) which would reduce the value added tax rate to all services provided in tourism, catering and passenger transport from 17% to 5%. That VAT rate of 5% in tourism, catering and passenger transport would apply to 31. 12. 2022" number: 01-50-1-965/20 of 8. Ten. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8527	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear members of the Kolegijum and distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. It is as you said and said before you is a parliamentary initiative dealing with the current, real situation in which it is located, unlike perhaps some initiatives that were in the morning session and which dealt with several pasts, my colleague Pekić and I have decided to propose to Parliament an initiative that would oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 30 days a draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value, which would reduce the VAT rate from 17% to 5% for certain industries, i.e. for certain activities, for tourism, catering and passenger traffic as activities that may be the most affected by this pandemic COVID-19, although a number of other activities 60 have suffered certain damages, I think it is important to give an adequate answer when it comes to, here, these sectors of the economy that certainly deserve much more attention than they have been so far. In line with the competences of the BiH Joint Institutions, we felt the need to put this proposal before you and to task, which is quite logical, the Council of Ministers as the executive institution of the joint institutions of BiH to make changes to this legal solution within a month, to deliver to the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives so that MPs can give their final position on the issue. It is our intention to limit the duration of the Law to 31.12.2022, through these amendments and the addition of the VAT Act, and that this is a sufficient period to send a strong message and help these sectors of the economy overcome a truly great economic crisis that has hit not only BiH but the whole world. I think that, and I expect that today, respecting what is proposed, we will give support to this one, in my opinion, a very useful economic measure, which is concrete, which is clear, unequivocal and which can give several important answers to how people who are directly in these sectors overcome all that is happening to the economic implications caused by COVID-19, i.e. Coronavirus. What is important to note is that, aware of the fact that there is a part of the colleagues coming directly from these sectors and perhaps better for them, what is the situation, what is the situation, the key question is, what does this mean specifically when it comes to a part of the reduction of income in the budgets of various institutions at BiH level? Here we did some kind of little projection or analysis based on the available data that we came up with from the indirect tax administration. What we have in mind is that, according to the data, the Directorate for indirect taxation is an activity of providing a mixture, i.e. Preparation of food and drink during the first nine months of the reported traffic of some 380 million KM, which means that the assessment of the traffic in these activities will be around 500 million KM by the end of the year. When we take the VAT from these activities into account, some 75 million KM, if the projection is that similar traffic will be in 2021 and if we take into account the reduction from 17 to 5% in these sectors, in these activities catering, tourism and passenger traffic would remain about 50 million KM more than before, and various levels of government would be denied for that amount, which when translated into percentages means less than 1% of total VAT-based taxes in one year. Look, less than 1%, when I do this in linear terms now, if we take mathematically, at all levels of government, here we take the House of Representatives, the Parliament where we sit, it means that if we were to be observed linearly, there would be less money for our Parliament 0.7%, 114 thousand marks than some 16 million budgets available annually. When we set it all up to other levels of government it would mean that 0.5% less revenue for the Federation budget and 0.5% less revenue, i.e. less VAT-based money in Republika Srpska's budget and other of course budgets and Brcko district and donkey. And just to finish, the assessment is also in the divergence that we had with the people in these areas, in order to have a significant impact on the reduction of the grey economy, which is still present in the area of hospitality. So probably these effects that would happen on the downturn of VAT revenue would be even smaller and would be almost invisible, and this would be a direct, large and strong benefit for everyone in the activities and hospitality and tourism and passenger traffic, and I call on you all to leave, perhaps, some political animosities and to jointly support such an initiative and to wait for a proposal from the Council of Ministers which he should by, on the basis of this proposal, come in 30 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8528	Thank you, counsel. Dear representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać reported for the debate, please welcome. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8529	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although this PDP parliamentary initiative sounds so tempting and likely for some people who are direct, who would be direct users of such measures, this one certainly sounds welcome, but I will now present several arguments that I consider going towards why the SNSD Club will not support this initiative. We believe that the industries that are directly affected by the pandemic, i.e. who have suffered a reduction in traffic or even a halt, should be helped directly from the budget of any level, such as, say, the Government of Republika Srpska through, through the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, are just trying to assist, therefore, direct grants if a particular economic operator proves that it has had a reduction, an appropriate reduction in traffic. We also had the opportunity to analyse such measures that were achieved during the summer, which applied to the months of March and April, so we had the opportunity to see when you have direct support for the specific hospitality and these branches that you mentioned, that we have an accelerated, application to the worker, that we have an accelerated application of which, therefore, also a direct reduction of the grey economy that your colleague Borenović was talking about. If this measure were rather illogical and illogical, and the next argument, if we were to go to a VAT reduction, and the VAT we know is connected to traffic being achieved, so there's no traffic-free means we wouldn't even have a reduction, what's that logic if you were to help on a traffic-free basis, that's not help, it's just some kind of measure that, well, to you, which I understand you have to express yourself in public, to show your concern that, like, I don't think I see at all the league in it. I also think that as you have stated, it is also not fair, bearing in mind that you have listed in your initiative to cover all services in the areas of hospitality, tourism and passenger traffic. I don't have much time, but yesterday I had the need to meet something in Banja Luka in one of the locals, for some conversation, believe me, that I walked for at least an hour in the city center where, I believe, so is Sarajevo, that I couldn't find a place in certain places at all. So, some of our, which is good, I think on the one hand is good, on the epidemiological side it's not, certain entities in the field of hospitality at this point, let's say, they're doing well and they're doing well, they're hiring people, they're doing traffic, and then there's going to be opportunities to charge both VAT and other taxes. As for also the potential extraction of this VAT system, we also believe that at the moment that we are all aware of the economic crisis that has hit us and not only us but the whole world needs to maintain financial stability and any unpacking will open the way for us to appear with much more possibly the health sector's rights or some other sectors and we would have an argument to free the whiskey, served whiskey, versus the placed medicine. I do not see any logic of such an approach, but also as I advocate and that, to achieve it, it is to achieve space to make business branches that have really stopped their activity and that have not at all or very little achieved traffic directly because of the pandemic, be directly and supported. I appeal, I think I've made enough arguments, uh, not to get into this kind of initiative, and yet I say, since they came from a party that's opposition at this point, to me are understandable and would qualify them, would be that way. Thank you very much. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8530	Thank you. Representative Mira Pekić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8531	Thank you. Here, I'll, uh, refer to the exposure of my colleague bursać-Novakovati-Novacovci and all of this. She made four arguments that I'm going to say. The arguments directly from the budget, this is an indirect tax and can't go directly from the budget, we know that it goes to the entity level, so there's no point in even discussing it at all, the entities are discussing it and they're giving economics, so directly from the budget goes what's a direct tax this is indirect. And the only way we can help the economy and these branches is to talk about the VAT law, that's all, nothing else. Also today, I asked the minister again for the one, the ones helping from the budget, to recover economic damage, so you see there is no authority at all from the Council of Ministers, nor has the authority of the level of BiH. But here, you've adopted that budget where it's said that 28.7 million goes for the recovery of economic damage, and that's where you should have taken care of direct, indirect taxes. The other thing is VAT cuts, you say activity, there's no activity, so why are we gonna cut their VAT? So let's put them on that VAT zero. There's no activity, so let's make it zero and we're done talking. And then, on the other hand, you say, "I was walking down the street, so I saw a lot of cafes." What is it now, is it activity or no activity? What, the question is at all, you must agree with yourself and with your vision. And the extraction of VAT, so this isn't the Dayton Peace Agreement that we unpack, this is just a VAT law, it can be unpacked, and we should have unpacked it long ago, we should have introduced differentiated rates, and we should have thought about paying VAT for paid realisation, paying VAT at the end of the month, all of this would have helped the economy without the coronary virus. Therefore, unpacking does not mean at all, our proposal is quite in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8532	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8533	Well, I expected him to try to make an excuse to vote against where he's not. Look, we've been asking the Council of Ministers for months to do something concrete with their jurisdiction on the matter, here's a differentiated VAT rate which would reduce the damage caused by the pandemic COVID-19 and you don't need to talk to anyone except for colleagues sitting in these parliamentary benches, who come from these sectors, who know best how much traffic they have, how many guests they have in hotels, how many guests they have in catering facilities and those 63 who know how much bus traffic they have on the basis of passenger traffic. I personally went to Belgrade a few days ago, my son talked to people driving on the Banja Luka – Belgrade line, constantly having between 6 and 8 passengers, constantly and of course it would mean a lower VAT rate, so at least a few dozen marks remain more daily in their market. But you must also know that this is a measure that has not fallen from the sky, this is an economic measure that has already been applied in many European countries. Croatia has done something similar before, I don't know, maybe for months, maybe even a year to reduce VAT rates for food in catering to 13%. Germany has the temporary measure of half a year to reduce the VAT rate for all activities, which is not possible for us, as this would have a significant impact on VAT revenues. Don't look for an excuse where he's not there, I know that you have to justify your vote against, vote against, although it would be good to rise above that damn political distance and allow, as completely logically, to be justified on our part, to give the Council of Ministers a warrant to come out with that proposal within 30 days, so we will act as an amendment if you think something needs to be fixed. And indeed, here I call upon you to try at last, at least when these specific things are life-saving, to put aside some of the conflicts that we try to make artificially sometimes and to support one initiative that, in my opinion, is quite justified and that has the support of all the people in these activities, because they think it can help them save their jobs, jobs. our businesses and that we may eventually influence that these budget revenue cuts are less because we will eliminate one part of the grey economy, and that is certain, because the VAT entry is 17%, the outflow 5% will then report everything they have to get into that legal one. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8534	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8535	I have to start by saying, unfortunately, either my colleague didn't hear me or she didn't understand me, but I certainly made myself clear, so I'm going to do it again. I think I've made myself clear, but I'll do it again. So, I'm not saying that you don't need help, and I just said that you should help from the level of government to the one where this jurisdiction belongs, if you've been following right now, these days the Public Call of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism of the Republika Srpska Government has issued a public invitation to report entities to whom there has fallen traffic at an appropriate percentage, to apply for assistance, meaning, directly from the budget. So, I've been very clear here, but here's because you haven't heard or understood me again. What bothers me pretty much in this proposal of yours that you have explicitly said all the services, I have mentioned that all the services mean that we would, by this measure of yours, reduce the VAT and those who do really well, I think that it should help people who do not work and that we should help them directly, rather than bring about measures that would include both those that need and those that do not need to, and that it does not go in the direction of reducing the grey economy at all, but perhaps even the opposite. And as for the extraction of VAT, neither did I say it was intractible, but I just distracted you, if we go in with this economic branch, I don't see any argument as to why this and the health care wouldn't come, why don't we, if we release, say nice and repeat, if we're free of whiskey, why don't we release penicillin. But then we'll get into a situation where more, who knows what financial stability will look like, and we all know that and what kind of economic environment we're working in. So, you have the right to initiative she's populist, you have the right to act 64, and we, as still part of the government and we try to act responsible, we don't have the right to these kind of trips. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8536	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8537	Mrs. Bursać, no one is trying to slow you down to run the policy as you think you should and no one here has denied that there will be direct assistance from other levels of government and should be, what it is, we can talk about it for days. Is it even? Probably not, because as soon as you select who's in danger, who isn't, there's doubt right now. There's no selection here, this is a legal solution that is equal to everyone. As soon as one political party decides who gets direct help or doesn't, it has a terrible political impact. Here it's perfectly clear, distribution of VAT reduction is equal to everyone. Anyone with more traffic, of course, will earn more profits again, who has less turnover will have less profits, but will get the same amount based on the VAT rate reduction from 17% to 5% of those 12%. Let go of the story that you will directly help someone, you know who you will help, probably those who are close to your governing structure and who have certain privileges, and that's why we've come into this situation. But I don't mind, direct assistance at the level of the Republika Srpska government should be, the government of the Federation of BiH and it should be, and you've completely confused things here and introduced some things that are absolutely not comparable. You're talking about the health sector, let's see what part of the health sector, make a suggestion, come on, make a suggestion, of course everyone will be respected. We know how and how healthcare is financed in every part of BiH, budget transfers and how the law defined it. But once you've done it, stop doing it with some kind of raw policy. You are looking for an excuse where there is no excuse, talk to your colleagues sitting on your right and above you, who come directly from this sector, this is a good legal solution. If you want to make an excuse, you'll find it all over, and the fact that the administration may not be ready, it should be ready to react. The VAT rate, and she had so many years and time to prepare, because there was an announcement about the differentiated VAT rate. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8538	Representative Zlatan Begić called for the debate. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8539	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives, as I first report for the floor today, I would like to congratulate you first on taking office as chair. After careful analysis of this proposal, the DF Club will support this proposal. In our opinion, this is one of the proposals that should be no political division, no dispute, of course not denying anyone the right to have their own position, it is the democratic right of each of us and ultimately to define itself on certain issues. But at this point, we believe that this, in our opinion, may be one, not diminishing the importance of other points of the agenda, but at these difficult moments of the pandemic and crisis, perhaps one of the most important points of the agenda today, and I would like to congratulate my colleagues in this sense who have proposed this item of the agenda. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8540	Thank you, too. Representative Saša Magazinović called for the debate. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8541	Thank you. Very briefly, you know that the SDP on several occasions proposed a differentiated VAT rate, different arguments were at different times when it was proposed, sometimes the IMF opposed it and it would be part of the arrangement not to touch it, and sometimes domestic authorities were hiding behind foreigners. This proposal deserves support, not because it is perfect and not because these are the only areas that are threatened, but to finally open the story of amending the VAT Act. The unique VAT rate should not be holy cows, something that is not discussed, not discussed, which cannot be changed. We were talking then about a differentiated VAT rate that implies a zero VAT rate for basic life supplies, learning and, if I remember the orthopedic aid well. Is that what it's supposed to be? You should. Are we going to touch this proposal that way? No, because I think it is good that this or any other proposal finally opens this story and as far as we're concerned, we would be inconsistencies not to support what we ourselves have proposed in another form and we look forward to opening a discussion on a serious reform of the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8542	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, here's your representative, here's your debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8543	Thank you. So, Club Our Party – The Independent Block will support this initiative, there is no dilemma about these stories, is there, that there is something in it problematic, that it needs this or that, that it needs medication. Watch out for something, this is an initiative, this is not a bill, it is as such as an initiative does not restrict the Council of Ministers to act in another direction if it considers it necessary. Now it's a second, completely different question, so the Council of Ministers' ability to do that. And the Council of Ministers' ability is seen through the fact that the chairman of the Council of Ministers said several sessions ago that he does not deliver bill proposals to this Parliament because he cannot provide for the majority. The finance minister today told us he doesn't know where he's gone for 10 million in the last five years. So, we're talking about such a Council of Ministers, but if we had a high-quality Council of Ministers, we would already have a bill here on a differentiated VAT rate that would include all of this and possibly other things. But it's really unreasonable to reject the initiative because it may not have something else contained in it, which the Council of Ministers is free to put into the realisation of this initiative. Therefore, I cannot help but remind myself of the fact that we are on the 32nd item of the agenda today, at the session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, the first of the local elections, the first of which, in a few months and that even after the 32nd item of the agenda, we still do not have and will not have any draft Council of Ministers law until the end of the agenda. We are in the second year of the term of office of this House of Representatives and three laws have been adopted as a result of the Council of Ministers' proposal. To make the matter worse, five laws totalled two drafts of the budget law and three proposals of the Council of Ministers' laws in two years. This cannot afford a country that is trying to obtain EU membership candidate status and all of this speaks of a 66-full incompetence of the Council of Ministers and therefore this initiative is fully justified, because if in two years you insert three drafts of the law, and then oppose an initiative coming from the opposition, and at the same time nothing comes from the Council of Ministers, this shows all the perilousness of this authority and its inability to government and the need not to obtain a credit arrangement from the IMF without extremely, extremely sharp restrictions that include the ban on the purchase of new cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8544	Thank you. I don't see any more reports, we're closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 33. Ad. 33. Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH mandates the BiH Council of Ministers within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative to prepare and in Parliament's procedure the Proposal for a Law on how to use and dispose of non-perspective immovable military property, in such a way that the property in question is deemed not to be necessary for the exercise of this property by the Constitution, the international contract and the law established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, assigned to the use and availability of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the property is located, with the sole aim of protecting this property from further destruction and destruction, its reconstruction and reconstruction or the establishment of the site in question, in accordance with the spatial and plan documentation of the unit of the local self-government on which the property is located, i.e. the development of this property of the local community in Bosnia and Herzegovina: 0150-14. Ten. 2020 The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH as responsible for considering this initiative, the committee has delivered its opinion, the Commission has not supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Co-chairman, colleague Zvizdić, you have a word, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8546	I welcome all present once again. Therefore, the intention of this initiative is to protect the unprespective immovable military property from further collapse and to use it to actually launch a new investment cycle in the areas of cities and municipalities that would be allocated to use or availability, so property in whose territory, a family whose territory is the seed of property. The availability of the property concerned would be made exclusively in order to protect this property from further collapse and collapse, in order to restore and reconstruct it or bring the site concerned to a final purpose, in accordance with the spatial planning documentation of the units of local self-government on whose territory the property is located, in accordance with urban projects, urban plans and regulatory plans of the municipalities concerned. We are talking about a new 24 unspective 67 locations from which, according to the information I received from the Ministry of Defence, 11 are immediately ready for surrender, the other 13 will be ready as soon as the issue of surplus weapons currently deposited at these locations is resolved and it is clear, therefore, that this initiative has no political background whatsoever, that it is primarily of economic nature and that there is a huge investment and economic potential in this property, which, if granted to local self-government units, would be of direct benefit to the realization of development plans and programmes of municipalities and citizens, and thus also to improve the lives of citizens living in the area of these cities and municipalities. I am absolutely sure that this initiative would be supported by most of the newly elected and mayors and heads of all municipalities of BiH, where the property concerned is located, and a good example of putting into office the property that had previously been practically in the collapse phase is the "Safet Zajko“ barracks in the Novi City Municipality which has become a sports and recreational centre which, every day, gathers thousands and thousands of our citizens together with their families and children or barracks called "Jajce" that is an unspective property that instead of creating an opportunity for an investment cycle of more than tens of millions of euros actually collapses and represents a major problem in terms of danger both the municipality and the citizens themselves. So the point is to open up these sites for reconstruction, for reconstruction, for revitalization, to turn them into sports-recreation zones, industrial zones, business zones, technology parks, etc. where we will be able to realise the development plans of the municipalities. It is property worth hundreds of millions of euros alone, and it can be multipled with a multiplier of two, three, four or five when we talk about investments that would have municipalities, other levels of government, and in particular we can talk about very large and serious investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8547	Thank you to the chairman, Comrade Zvizdić. Debate, Agent Nermin Mandra. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8548	Thank you, esteemed chairman, esteemed vice-president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I want to support my fellow Zvizdić's initiative. I come from a municipality that doesn't have this kind of property, but there are business entities, state-owned business entities that have hundreds of hectares of untapped land for which investors and development plans of the crying community. I appreciate that non-perspective military property, if it is made available to local communities, could be the space of new business zones, new business incubators or some other useful purposes, and certainly also a place where new jobs would certainly be opened. Once again support for this initiative and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8549	Thank you, counsel. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 68 We move to point 34. Ad. 34. Discussing Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative, Denis Zvizdić, "the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers to provide at least once a month with the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with updated information on the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to the pandemic of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), including data on the number of tested, infected, cured and deceased in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, as well as on the measures taken by crisis headquarters at all levels of government, and further measures aimed at protecting the health and life of citizens and the recovery of the economic damage caused by the pandemic of the entire Bosnia and Herzegovina (COVID-19), plans to take the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special emphasis on spending budget resources designed to repair the economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) of 0150-19: 11. 2020. The College of the Houses appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider that initiative, the committee responsible submitted an opinion, the Commission accepted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to point 35. Ad. 35. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within a short period of time, not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, to prepare and to refer to the parliamentary procedure a new Proposal for the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to harmonise this regulation with the new regulations of the European Union, and to bring this area, in terms of international transport and supply of medicinal products and medical resources, into line with the existing situation of the coronovirus pandemic (COVID-19), issue: 01-50-1-2163/20 of 5. 11. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8553	Thank you very much. When we talk about this Law, it is actually a commitment from the European Commission's Opinion on BiH's request for EU membership, which is further developed through the Action Plan, under point 12.2. The action plan, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers and represents, therefore, a basic document that routes and clearly defines what activities we must carry out in the coming period to reach candidate status, and then open the first negotiating cluster with the EU. The analysis report and the Action Plan clearly define the need to adopt the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Electronic Communications at the state level. Also earlier, the EU's Innovation and Information Society Subcommittee, social policy and public health explicitly asked BiH to fully align the Law on Electronic Communications with the EU acquis. Therefore, this new Law on Electronic Communications and Electronic Media would cover relevant provisions of the 2003 Communication Act, it has already been too long since it is not in line with the acquis, directives and guidelines, so that instead of the current law, we would get solutions that are in accordance with the current times, because electronic communications today are as broad as the electronic media, we live in the time of the pandemic when they become more and more important and when this will become a key matter that will need to be regulated by the strategy for developing broadband access in BiH for the period 2020-2023, because we are already living in the time of the fifth Information Revolution. I would also like to remind you that, during the previous Council of Ministers, the policy of the electronic communications sector has been adopted, and that the Strategy and the policy sector have made an obligation to pass the Law on Electronic Communications. That is why this initiative is, in fact, a kind of additional incentive to the Council of Ministers, finally to Parliament to adopt 70 of these laws and meet an exceptional, extremely important condition on the path of European integration from the European Commission's Opinion on BiH's request for EU membership and show BiH's serious credibility in the realisation of obligations in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8554	Thank you to the chairman, Comrade Zvizdić. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 37. Ad. 37. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer, within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, to the parliamentary procedure of the lex specialis Proposal for a law on the prevention of illegal hate speech on the Internet, which will be in line with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, Recommendations and Conventions of the Council of Europe, the acquis of the European Union and with the successful practices of the countries of the European Union which have regulated this area legally", issue: 01-50-1-2167/20 of 5. 11. 2020 The House College has designated the Joint Commission on Human Rights to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the Commission has adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Proposer of the initiative, co-chairman, Zvizdić. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8556	Thank you very much. Several international acts and conventions ratified and our BiH state regulate the problem of hate speech, starting with the European Convention for Human Rights, which, of course, prescribes that everyone has freedom of expression, but that this right withdraws both duties and responsibilities and can be subject to both formalities and conditions and restrictions and penalties prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society. There is also an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime where the definition of hate speech is treated as follows, as any written material, picture or other representation of ideas or theories, theories that advocate, promote or promote hatred, discrimination or violence against individuals and groups. With this regard, the European Commission recognised this problem, in 2016 the Code of Conduct on the fight against illegal hate speech was adopted on the Internet, which accepted the obligation to combat illegal hate speech on the Internet and supported Member States to ensure that internet platforms do not provide the possibility of mass spread of illegal speech, that has already been realised and implemented by many EU countries, from Germany, France, etc. and here is currently our neighbouring Republic of Croatia in its Work Programme of Government has planned to adopt the Law on the Prevention of Disadequate Conduct on Social Networks and All Other Social Networks, Facebook, Twitter etc. They remove illegal content that represents hate speech. Therefore, the essence of this initiative is to find an adequate balance between 71 freedom of expression from one and the unauthorized hate speech on the other, and there is a good case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which has dealt with this issue in several cases, which can be a good guide to the drafting of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8557	I'd like to thank my colleague Zvizdić. Representative Saša Magazinović reported on the debate under the initiative. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8558	Thank you. Excellent, useful and I would say the necessary initiative, otherwise I congratulate my colleague Zvizdić on our engagement for today's session, if we look at the agenda then we are clear that without a significant number of these parliamentary initiatives, and that we have relied on the Council of Ministers, we would have nothing to do today. A few words in terms of support. Four, five years ago, we talked about this in a more intense way, I don't know why this subject was present in public space, and then somehow it got lost. People in the judiciary, police, most often say that hate speech and crimes committed via the Internet, especially the spread of racial and national intolerance in our country are not regulated by law. So that's not true, or to be exact, that's a lie. The BiH Ministry of Justice has proposed, and the Council of Ministers has adopted the view that the crime scene does not change the nature of the crime and has sent it to us as Parliament. Which means, if you threatened someone with death, now I'm not talking about hate speech, but I'm talking about direct death threats, on the phone, live someone on the street, or doing it on the street, in online space in any way, it doesn't change the nature of the crime. The Justice Ministry has also proposed, and the Council of Ministers has adopted the view that the criminal laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, two entities and the Brcko District are such that the crimes committed via the Internet in terms of the member who prescribes the punishment, it seems to me, by the punishment of up to 5 years, the spread of racial, ethnic and any other impatience can be prosecuted. What, how is that, what happens in practice? In practice, if you get the threat through, in online space, then they tell you we can't sanction it, unless you're called Vigemark, because when they threatened him, they found who threatened and sanctioned it. What do I mean? What Zvizdić suggested is necessary in all countries, and this at least we want to look up to, is separate laws, but until we adopt it doesn't mean that by respecting our criminal laws, we can't prosecute a crime, for example, a threat to death. So this is a much better option that Zvizdić is proposing, but I want to say that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice's position that what is happening today can also be processed. Why isn't it done, it's a question for our judiciary, this which, as we can see, is in the mud.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8559	Thank you. Aida Baručija's representative, the debate. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8560	Thank you, Chairman. I would just point out to my colleague Zvizdić that on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, on which we adopted this initiative, we only asked, or suggested to delete this word of "unlawful hate speech" because we believe that legal hate speech does not exist, only that it is corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8561	Thank you. No more reports, we're closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 38. Ad. 38. Discussing Denis Zvizdić parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt, within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the jurisdiction laid down in Article 9(2) of the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 5/03, 42/03, 26/04, 42/04, 45/06, 88/07, 35/09/59/09, 103/09/87/12, 6/13, 19/16 and 83/17), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Protection of the Environment, Development and Use of Natural Resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01-50-1-2170/20 of 5. 11. 2020 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion. The commission has accepted the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. Co-chairman, Mr. Zvizdić, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8563	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we all know that under the Zakono on Ministrys and Other Authorities, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is in charge and has a co-ordination role to play in defining policies, basic principles and activities in the field of environmental protection, development and use of natural resources. That is why I have proposed that this framework law be adopted which should allow for the regulation of the framework for the protection of the environment, development and use of natural resources at BiH level, because this is, in fact, an IN topic, hence the burning topic for a long time and something which has explicitly required both the EU and international financial and other organisations and institutions. In particular, it is meant to protect the environment and air, especially during the winter, because, of course, smog and unquality air do not understand where the entity border is and does not stand, of course, on the entity border, but when the smog in Sarajevo is simply harmful to the residents of both Sarajevo and East Sarajevo. In addition, this law should also regulate the way in which the coal market and other polluting materials are regulated, since as BiH, we have signed the Agreement on Climate Change in Paris and have committed to maintain the emissions of harmful gases at a percentage of less than 2% compared to the 73 pre-industrial period. Furthermore, there is an extremely important issue of all our water streams, so the protection of our rivers and lakes, and at last nothing less, is the issue of building a nuclear waste dump in the Shop Gora and all the dangers that are threatening BiH. It should also be borne in mind that the EU has adopted the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans, which provides for huge investment and infrastructure investment in environmental protection and development and the use of natural resources, and reminds me that the Council of Ministers in the former composition adopted the EU's legal acquis strategy in the field of environmental protection, that we have adopted whole-state strategies in the fields of environment, energy and agriculture, and that these documents provide for investment investments and the great benefit of BiH in the next 30 years, which should amount to between 13 billion euros and 15 billion euros, which would go through different IPA funds. It is therefore necessary to establish one such strategic law, a state-level framework law in order to draw legal and economic grounds for project candidacy for the Green Agenda, environmental protection, protection and use of natural resources in accordance with European directives. That is why this law is also not political, but primarily economic, which can bring great benefits in terms of protecting and preserving the environment, but also the planned use of our natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8564	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 39. Ad. 39. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers for the period from 2020 to 2040, within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative, to establish the long-term foundations of the organisation, arrangements, use and protection of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with its natural, environmental and cultural potentials, issue 01-50-1-2171/20 of 5. 11. 2020 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion. The commission didn't accept the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. Proposer of the initiative, co-chairman, Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8566	Thank you very much. So, a very similar document, like this previous one, is actually about taking over the successful practices of the countries of the world and the countries of the region, which at the highest level regulated the issue of spatial planning of their countries, because the space is one of the most important resources that we have and can only through the regulation at the highest level ensure quality, planning, co-ordinated and integrated spatial planning, without such a document, believe me, it is not possible to provide 74 harmonised development of the whole of BiH, because without, of course, investing in the constitutional competences of entities and other levels of government that they have in this area, it would create indicative objectives for the spatial development of protection and use and the purpose of space and land, and particularly the fundamental purpose of land and certain areas, i.e. e. even spatial development that would be consistent with economic and social and environmental principles. It would enable the interconnection of space and human activities and economic activities in space, for the sake of plan, functional and sustainable development, respecting the natural integral values of space. It would allow quality and human development of urban and rural settlements in line with the principles of development of green and smart cities, green urban and spatial infrastructures, the definition of buildings and corridors, linear and other infrastructures of importance for the entire state of BiH. Because large infrastructure line projects can't fit on the entity line and if we don't have a spatial plan that clearly defines the routes of large infrastructure projects, it's impossible to build them integratedly. That we, that there are no routes of pan-European corridors belonging to and Highway 5C so that we know which route through BiH that highway should go, because we don't have that in the Space Plan of BiH. Of course, defining... the structure and measures of environmental protection, nature conservation and protection, protection... of natural heritage etc. Therefore, I do not think that this issue should be looked at again from the point of view of politics, not to be politicised, it is a framework law which does not take over any level of authority, nor affects the jurisdiction of any level of government in this area, but should be seen as one logical document, which has almost every UN member state and has no reason to make BiH an exception in this respect, and the adoption of the Small Plan of BiH and to point out this, will certainly be sought when negotiating chapters are opened with the EU, so that we should first show willingness, credibility, that we can adopt such a document in a professional and planned manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8567	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. No, there is, MP Sanja Vulić called for the debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8568	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Well, I have a few questions for Mr. Zvizdić. Given that, in all, this, European circles and embassies, the highest Fund for the Environment of the Federation and the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and the Energy Efficiency of the Republika Srpska Praises, say they work best, that we are excellently withdrawing funds from both entities in the field of energy efficiency, many withdraw funds from foreign funds in this way. So, given the previous point of view and this and all of your reasons, I am interested in, uh, from your angle, and you have been the chairman of the Council of Ministers – in what way will this bill, which you have proposed, both proposals, mean, contribute to the development, or the work of the fund, and what is it that will further absorb their work, if we already know that here are all these representatives of European institutions and funds, thank you and say that they are doing well in the interests of all of us citizens and that in some way, here, protects the environment, air, water, rivers and everything else, so me, air, rivers and forests, everything else we need, is that we breathe with full wages and that there is less polluted space, so I'm interested in what way did you come up with it and what is your view of these funds at all? 75
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8569	Well, I don't know only through the correction of the wrong quote, it doesn't answer, but as an applicant of the initiative, so here's your word, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8570	Here's a little while ago I set a good example, it's Highway 5C that there's no pan-European corridor for me to know where that highway is going to go, because it's perfectly safe for every end in BiH to think that next to his city should pass that highway. As we know, he's not going through Tuzlo, but he's going directly to Brcko, but let's say Prijedor would ask that the highway goes through the Prijedor why he should go over Doboj to the Bosnian Ship or worse to the Ores. The bottom line is that there are no planned integrated management of key and large projects that serious investors want, if they do not have a full picture in front of them, a partial, partial picture does not attract serious investors who can be integrations of some, in certain areas in BiH. This, of course, is not related to environmental funds, environmental funds are working small, small, small and small projects, is it, is it, is it going to make water and sewerage somewhere that it means a lot to the local community, but it is a small project for BiH. That is why we still, let's say, we don't know where we're going to put nine key sanitary dumps for all of BiH, we haven't set up these cities, because we don't have a single national environmental protection plan and a framework plan for environmental and space protection, so the total infrastructure. At this point, BiH cannot get money from any project for serious, large-line energy projects. For example, a four hundred-kilovolt power line that should connect BiH with Montenegro, Albania, Greece, etc. It can't go through and we can't get millions and millions of euros, because we don't know where that power line should go. The same thing is with all other hydroenergy projects, environmental projects, transport, infrastructure projects, etc. Let's not talk, say, about protecting against natural disasters. Were we, were the citizens of Titsna and Doboj wondering when there was a flood a few years ago where the entity line was? No, that's why we need to have integrated plans and programmes for all these areas that I've been talking about, so that we can develop our areas and our cities in a harmonised way. And believe me, so I'm a professor in this area, there's no transfer of jurisdiction, we don't touch the jurisdiction of any other level, we just don't look at a small picture, we're away from the big picture and we see the whole picture. This is how we stand too close and everyone sees their community, some canton, an entity, and they don't see the whole picture.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8571	Thank you, fellow Zvidzić. No more reports, we're closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 40. Ad. 40. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt this initiative as soon as possible, not later than 60 days after the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 26/04 and 42/04), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that the list, in accordance with international standards, can be implemented by 2023 at the latest," number: 01-50-1-2173/20 of 5. 11. In 2020, 76 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion. The commission accepted the initiative by amending the deadline instead of 60 a 90-day deadline has been set. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Switching to point 41. Ad. 41. Discussing the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, to refer the draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's measurement and the proposal for a law on official time in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to ensure timely implementation of obligations under the Council of Ministers' work programme for 2020", issue: 01-50-1-2174/20 of 5. 11. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8574	Thank you very much. So, the Law on Official Time that I propose to adopt as quickly as possible aims to officially define time in the territory of the whole of BiH, this law and this need has a mark of European integration, which means that it is a high degree of urgency and harmonisation of regulation with practice in the European Union, because the European Parliament has voted to abolish the movement of hours since April 2021, and to Member States and potential members, which is BiH, has been left to choose whether to keep the summer or winter counting of time. As far as BiH is concerned, this BiH-level law is needed, therefore, before April 2021, and best in the next few months, in order to prevent the paradoxical situation in which we can come, for example. that one entity has a winter count of time, and the other entity has a summer count of time, which means that, I don't know, in Sarajevo it would be one time, and in East Sarajevo as soon as you take a second step. It is therefore proposed that this Law, along with it, be amended, of course, to amend the Law on Measurement which is from 2001, which must, of course, be brought into line in the last 20 years in this area and globally and at every other information level, the level of the Directives and guidelines, but the essence of this Law on Official Time in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8575	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. 77 Are there more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 42. That's it, Ad. 42. Consideration of Nenad Nešić's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit within 15 days to the PSBiH House of Representatives information on the measures taken in 2020 on the recovery of the economic damages suffered by the COVID-19 pandemic", issue: 01-50-1-2177/20 of 5. 11. 2020 The House College has designated the Committee on Budgets and Finance to consider this initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the Commission has adopted the initiative. Now, before I open the debate, I would like to visit the business provisions, Article 74, we at this point see no motion nor initiative, that in the absence of this act, it is not discussed unless the House decides otherwise. Here, I suggest we plead or ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8579	Thank you. The vast majority of countries in the world have so-called. The second round of voting in all elections in which candidates compete for one particular post, for the president, for a member of the legislative body in the district of systems, mayors, mayors and the like. The presidents of all three of us neighbouring countries are elected in the second round, if no candidate in the first round gets an overhalf majority. The positive side of the second round is that it ensures respect for the voter's will in the most possible way, does not lead to a situation in which a significant majority of people, 70% and even more in some cases, votes for other candidates, and only 30% or less are elected. In BiH, the average thus elected chiefs is about 25%, meaning with less than 50% of the vote, a quarter of the elected BiH chiefs do not have overhalf support. I deliberately submitted this initiative before these local elections, so that there would be no insinuation that I was motivated by the results of them, but these local elections also showed that this trend continued 25% of the leaders were elected with less than 50% vote in these elections. The situation is even worse in the BiH presidency, since the first elections after Dayton to date, as many as 40% of the candidates have been elected to the presidency with less than 50% vote. This was the case most with Bosniak members, only Mr. Alija Izetbegović and Mr. Haris Silajdžić were elected with more than 50% votes, and even four were elected Bosniak members, although 60 to 70% of voters voted for someone else or could even be said against them. In the election for the Serbian presidency member, this happened three times, less than half the support, while only once the Croatian member of the presidency was elected with less than 50% of the vote. Of course, the fact that he is a Croatian member in all of this, in all but one situation chosen with full electoral legitimacy and here he traditionally enjoys greater legitimacy than a Bosniak and Serbian member does not mean that we have no problem, because the presidency is a collective body. And the last time all three members of the Bureau, that collective body, had full legitimacy was '98. A year ago, so 22 years ago. Except '98. The only time all three had full legitimacy was '96. And never again after '98. years, so. The second round, of course, there are also negative sides, cost, prolongs uncertainty, delays the transfer of power etc. However, there is a solution to that, and that is so-called. ... i.e. preferential voting system or so-called instant-second-round. Voters rank candidates on ballots and the winner is the candidate with the best preferences, not to be too long now, the system is explained in detail in the context of the initiative. This is how the presidents of Ireland, India, Papua New Guinea are elected, in case someone says that this system would be complicated for our country, as well as the legislative authorities in Australia and at federal and federal level, members of the legislative bodies in some US federal states and many other countries. This preferential voting system costs nothing more, the same number of ballots is printed, voters rank their preferences on the same number of ballots, everything is done in one place. As regards the time to count, all data from relevant international organisations indicate that this does not extend to any significant numbering, especially in situations where legislative authorities are also chosen at the same time, which are certainly longer than the choice of these direct mandates. Therefore, there are no negative sides to this voting system, and the positive sides are numerous, above all, so we come to the biggest and the greatest support for people who have been elected to such functions, as I say again, in BiH they are members of the Presidency, the mayors and mayors. There are no constitutional restrictions when members of the presidency are concerned, the BiH Constitution exclusively requires that they be elected directly, so that each voter can vote for only one, for 79 filling one seat in the presidency and this system does not touch it. As for the election for the mayors and mayors there are no constitutional restrictions, however, it is necessary to amend entity laws and therefore this initiative It is very clear that the Council of Ministers is required to prepare amendments and supplement the Election Law, and that entity competent authorities are asked to amend this entity law in the relevant parts. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8580	Thank you, Agent Arnaut. No more logged in on this agenda item. We're closing the debate. I'm going to point 44. Ad. 44. Consideration of the delegation initiative Edita Đapo ''To bring the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in line with the Law on Single Origin Number with Constitutional Court Decision No U 3/11, the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the Constitution of Canton', issue: 01-50-1-2261/20 of 23. 11. 2020 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the Commission has not accepted the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. No reports have been reported. I'm concluding a hearing on this agenda item. And now before we move to point 45, I suggest we bring together the discussion of points 45 to 49, because it is about giving consent to ratification of agreements, or contracts. Here's what I suggest is that we bring together a discussion of the 45th to 49th points. Please make a statement. Of the 36 present – for 31, against nothing, abstentions 5. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have united the debate on points 45 to 49. Ad. 45. - Ad. 49. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement, the contract.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8587	86 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-12-09-0.u8588	That's what I was going to say, maybe even remind myself just because I just said there was no entity majority, just for the point of the 19th point, they were 2/3 against it, so that that initiative, point 19, was not accepted. Now we're on point 22. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative "by which the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to launch, in cooperation with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the procedures necessary for the establishment of a new ministry in the BiH Council of Ministers – Ministry of Immigrants", No. 01-50-1816/20 of 15. Ten. 2020. The vote is only in the second round on MP Zlatan Begić's initiative. Of the 33 present – 20 for, versus 13, there are no abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority, we have 2/3 Republika Srpska v. So, in the second round, MP Zlatan Begić's initiative did not get the required majority. Point 23. – Annual audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1910/20 of 29. Nine. 2020. We vote on the adoption of the Annual Audit Report. Of the 33 present – for 33, no objection, no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Annual Audit Report of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 24. – Reports from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2019. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: We vote on the adoption of conclusions from the Committee on Finance and Budgets later. So now we're voting first on the adoption of the report from point 24 to 74 first on that matter. Of the 33 present – 32 for, no problem, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have adopted reports from 24.1. to 24.74. Now we have conclusions from the Committee on Finance and Budget. Do I need to read, remember what it is, because we read on the occasion, do you need to? You don't have to, okay. Uh, let's get to the bottom of the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Of the 33 present – 33 for, no objection, no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that we have adopted the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budget. 87 We move to point 25. – Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01.02,03-37-1-1-1873/20 of 23. Nine. 2020. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 33 present – 31 for, no problem, 2 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019. Moving to point 26. – Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2019, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-991/20 of 13. Ten. 2020. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 33 present – for 28, against 2 abstentions 3. In addition to the general and entity majority, we adopted the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2019. Moving to point 27. – Report on the work of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-2196/20 of 10. 11. 2020. We vote on Predrag Kojović, Damir Arnaut, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's proposal. Shall I remind you of the conclusion? It refers to the fact that, within a period of 90 days from the adoption of the amendment of the Defence Act to improve work to create assumptions for internal reorganisation, this is about. Please make a statement. Of the 33 present – 21 for, 10 v, 2 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. So, it's just for later consent. We're voting on the adoption of the Justice Report now. Please make a statement. Of the 33 present – 18 for, against 9, 6 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. We didn't adopt, so the report in the first round, the subsequent consent. Moving to point 28. – Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which "needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to carry out all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia within ten days of the adoption of this initiative with the aim of retegorising the border crossing of the Gabela Polje for international passenger traffic or its opening for retail traffic, and in any case opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools", issue: 01-50-1-1787/20 of 8. Nine. 2020. 88 We are voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 23 for, 10 against, no abstentions. There is a general, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, a subsequent reconciliation. Coming through, point 29. – Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to start coordination with the competent bodies of entities and canton within ten days of the adoption of this initiative with the aim of enabling the study of the national group of subjects to do so, enrolling official language names in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names listed in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Dayton Agreement), as well as the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and taking into account the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-179/20 of 9. Nine. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 20 for, 13 against, there are no abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, a subsequent reconciliation. Point 30. – Consideration of the delegation initiative, Edita Đapo, "deleged by the Council of Ministers to amend Article 12a) of the Law on Citizenship in such a way as not to require the withdrawal of citizenship of countries that have changed their legislation and allow multiple citizenship (Danska, Norway, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic and others) and that an urgent conclusion of a bilateral agreement is concluded in these countries", number: 01-50-1934/20 of 2. Ten. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – for 21, against 7.5 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, and later we will agree. Point 31. – Consideration of the representative initiative of the HDZBiH Club – HNS "by which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives accepts the European Parliament's declaration of 23. Nine. 2008 and European Parliament Resolution of 2. 4. In 2009, and adopt a Decision marking August 23rd as “European Day of Remembrance of Victims of Totalitarian and Authoritarian Modes”, issue: 01-50-1-1,949.20 of 5. Ten. 2020. Voted for adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – for 4, versus 23, abstentions 6. There is no general majority, that initiative of MPs Lovrinović and members of the HDZ-HNS Club did not receive the necessary majority. Point 32. – Review of the parliamentary initiative Mire Pekić and Branislav Borenović "which is the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 35. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 30 days the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Value Added Tax Act (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 9/05, 35/05, 100/08 and 33/17) which would reduce the value added tax rate to all services provided in tourism, catering and passenger 89 traffic from 17% to 5%. That VAT rate of 5% in tourism, catering and passenger transport would apply to 31. 12. 2022" number: 01-50-1-965/20 of 8. Ten. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – for 22, against 8, abstention 3. There is a general and entity majority, said initiative by MP Mire Pekić and Branislav Borenović, received the necessary majority. Point 33. – Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the Parliamentary House of BiH mandates the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and in parliamentary procedure within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative the proposed law on the way of use and the availability of non-perspective immovable military property, in such a way as to assign the property concerned, in the event that it is considered not necessary for the exercise of this property by the Constitution, the international contract and the law established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to the use and availability of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the property is located, exclusively with the aim of protecting this property from further destruction and collapse, its reconstruction and reconstruction or the establishment of the locality in question, according to the spatial-plank documentation of the unit of self-government on which the property is located, i.e. the development of this property from 12.20. Ten. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – for 20.9 v, 4 abstentions. There's a general, but there's no entity majority, and then we'll agree. 34. point – Review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative to Zvizdić at least once a month to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with updated information on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to the pandemic of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), including data on the number of tested, infected, cured and deceased in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, as well as on the measures taken by crisis headquarters at all levels of government, and on further measures designed to protect the health and life of citizens and to address the economic damage caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus (COVID-19), plans to take the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special emphasis on the spending of planned budgetary resources for the recovery of the economic damage caused by the pandemic of the coronavirus (202/19) of 012/19. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 31 for, 2 against, no abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority, that initiative of the chairman, colleagues Zvizdić received the necessary majority. We're moving on to point 35. – Consideration of the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within a short period of time, not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, to prepare and to refer to the parliamentary procedure a new Proposal for the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to comply with the current situation of the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19)", issue: 01-50-1163/20 of 5. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 30 for, no problem, 3 abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority, that initiative by the chairman Denis Zvizdić was accepted. We're moving on to point 36. – Consideration of the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within a short period of time, not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the revised Proposal for Law on Electronic Communications and Electronic Media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and the recommendations of the Subcommittee on Innovation, Information Society, Social Policy and Public Health, and with respect to earlier suggestions from the opinion of the relevant institutions", issue: 01-50-1166/20 of 5. 11. 2020. We're voting on adopting a modified initiative, and I'm going to remind you that it's just, that's right, it's been written here for 30 days, now it's 90 days. Of the 33 present – for 23.7 v, 3 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Do we want a later match? Okay. Moving to point 37. – Consideration of the Denis Zvizdić parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and refer, within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, to the parliamentary procedure of the lex specialis Proposal for a Law to prevent illegal hate speech on the Internet, which will be in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, Recommendations and Conventions of the Council of Europe, the acquis of the European Union and with the successful practices of the countries of the European Union which have regulated this area legally", issue: 01-50-1-2167/20 of 5. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 29 for, no problem, 4 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority of that initiative, Zvizdić was accepted. Point 38. – Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "by the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt, within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the jurisdiction laid down in Article 9(2) of the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 5/03, 42/03, 26/04, 42/04, 45/06, 88/07, 35/09/59/09, 103/09/87/12, 6/13, 19/16 and 83/17), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Protection of the Environment, Development and Use of Natural Resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01-50-1-2170/20 of 5. 11. 2020. 91 We vote on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – for 20, against 8, abstentions 5. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, a subsequent reconciliation. We're moving on to point 39. – Consideration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary initiative Denis Zvizdić, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide, within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative, a proposal for a framework law on the Spatial Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 2020 to 2040, to establish, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the long-term foundations of the organisation, arrangements, use and protection of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with its natural, environmental and cultural potentials", issue: 01-50-1-2171/20 of 5. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 18 for, 13 v, 2 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority, and later we will plead in the second round. We're moving to point 40. – Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "by the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers to adopt this initiative as soon as possible, not later than 60 days after the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 26/04 and 42/04), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that the list, in accordance with international standards, can be implemented by 2023 at the latest," number: 01-50-1-2173/20 of 5. 11. 2020. We vote on adopting the initiative with the modification, that in terms of the 60-day deadline, in the modified now 90-day period. We're voting on the initiative. Of the 33 present – 20 for, no problem, 13 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, a subsequent reconciliation. We're moving on to point 41. – Considering the Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina tasks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and to refer to the Proposed Law on the Measurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Proposed Law on Official Time in Bosnia and Herzegovina within 30 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, in order to implement the obligations of the Council of Ministers for 2020 in a timely manner", issue: 01-50-1-2174/20 of 5. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 20 for, 5 against, 8 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority, we will agree on that initiative later. We delayed the debate on item 42, just to remind you. 92 We move to point 43. – Consideration of Parliament's Damir Arnaut's initiative "the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina mandates that, within 90 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, setting up a system of preferential, instant-second-round voting for the selection of mayors and mayors of the municipalities and cities in BiH, as well as for members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, and requiring the competent entity bodies to prepare and adopt amendments and supplement relevant entity laws in parts concerning the election of the mayors, with a view to establishing the said way and system of their election", issue: 01-50-1 2206/20 of 13-06/20 of 13 May. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – for 13, against 19.1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that the uninformed initiative of Agent Damir Arnaut has not received the necessary majority. Moving to point 44. – Consideration of the delegation initiative Edita Đapo ''that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is harmonising the Law on Single Origin Number with Constitutional Court Decision No U 3/11, the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the Constitution of Canton', issue: 01-50-1-2261/20 of 23. 11. 2020. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 33 present – 19 for, 9 against, 5 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity, on MP Edita Đapo's initiative, we will agree afterwards. Now I suggest we unify the vote on points 45 to 49 because it is about giving consent to ratifying this material. First, we vote on uniting the vote on points 45 to 49. Of the 33 present – 30 for, no problem, 3 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have united the vote on points 45 to 49. And now I ask you to come forward and vote on points 45 to 49 on granting consent, meaning ratification of material. Of the 33 present – 33 for, against nothing, there are no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify the material from points 45 to 49. This concludes the work of our session today. I'm closing the 14th session of the House of Representatives. 93 Thank you all for your cooperation, you will be notified of the next session of the House of Representatives in good time. Session completed at 6:54 p.m.
