ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the International Community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you. Before considering the agenda of this session, I would like to inform you that the Central Election Commission of BiH delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of 14 January 2019 Decision on the termination of the term of office and the mandate of the following qualified candidate number: 06-107-1487/19 of 31 December 2019, as well as the Convincation of the delegation's mandate to the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH No: 06-107-1-487/19 of 11 January this year to Mr Munib Jusufović as the next qualified candidate from the candidate list of political entities SBB – Alliance for a Better Future – Fahrudin Radončić for the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the Bosniak Peoples. That Decision laid down the termination of the term of office of Ambassador Fahrudin Radončić on 25 December 2019. I note that Article 1.3a(3) of the BiH Election Law stipulates that the elected holder of the mandate elected in the direct and indirect elections is obliged to sign a declaration that accepts or rejects a mandate in a form prescribed by the Central Election Commission within seven days of the date of receipt of the declaration. I would remind you that the provision of Article 3 is The Rules of Procedure, it reads like this – the envoys assume the duty of joint giving and the individual signing of a solemn statement. I call on the president of the Central Election Commission of BiH, Mr Branko Petrić, to give Mr Munib Jusufović the assurance of the mandate. [[APLAuz]] Thank you very much. You've been given the text of your solemn statement from the Home Service. Please sign and return to the service after making your solemn statement. I invite you Mr Munib Jusufović to stand up and join in giving a solemn statement before the House, after which you assume all the rights and obligations of the envoys in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. /Making a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u295	I undertake to knowingly perform my duties, respect the BiH Constitution, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and advocate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u296	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u297	Thank you. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u298	Dear Mr. Jusufović, the act of giving a solemn statement has given you the conditions for carrying out your envoy's duties. I congratulate you and wish you successful work in the House of Peoples. You have received the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the vodić for Envoys and Representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It is my duty to ask you to fill out the forms that are divided into benches, which are: - a card with basic data, - a statement of knowledge with regulations in the field of the processing of classified data, - a statement of willingness to act in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I - a statement on which language and letter you wish to receive materials. They will ask you to fill out these forms and hand them over to the employees of the protocol or the secretary of your club, as well as to be photographed later in the room scheduled for painting in the hall for the purpose of drawing up an emissary card and other documents relating to the performance of the envoy's duties. Here, these were the basic notes that we've been through, we're moving on with our work. I am now opening the 3rd haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 envoys – 5 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] For the third emergency session, I suggest the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st and 2nd haste sessions and 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Peoples: (a) the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, 3 (b) the Joint Committee for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, (c) the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, (d) the Joint Committee for European Integration, (e) the Joint Committee for Administrative Affairs, (f) the Joint Committee for Human Rights. 3. The appointment of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Peoples: (a) Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Interparliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union of Interparliamentary Union (IPU), (b) Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), (c) Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Cooperation Organisation, (d) Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Union (PSNATO), (e) Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Central European Initiative (CEI), (f) Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Parliament (PAM), (d) Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the BiH in the Central European Parliament in the Central European Initiative (CEI), (CEI), (f) the Assembly of the Assembly of BiH, the Assembly of BiH Parliament in the Assembly of BiH, the Assembly of BiH (PS) is the Assembly of the Assembly of BiH. Is anyone answering for a word on the agenda? Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u299	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. It is my opinion that the selection of members of the joint committees of both homes, as well as the appointment of delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to our Rules of Procedure, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives should not be considered at any emergency session of the House, given that this is one regular activity according to our Rules of Procedure, as well as in every Parliament in the world, but when you have called for a session, I want today's session of the House of Nations to be complemented by one point that is indeed an urgent character. In line with the relevant members of the Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose that the next item – Information on the Anti-Daytonese Strategy for Defence and National Security of the Republic of Serbia and its political, security and other consequences for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina be placed on the agenda today. I don't think it's a good idea for us to go over this topic superficially in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a very serious attack on the sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is quite logical that the highest legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina is manifested against this because the act was also adopted in the highest legislative body of the neighbouring Republic of Serbia. Even worse is the fact that the 4 defences and national security strategy set up Serbia's part of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a zone of special importance for Serbia's security and defence. Be careful, it was not the Slobodan Milošević regime in acts of such nature. We simply must not go beyond that, regardless of what the outcome will be around this point, it is important that from this building, from the highest legislative limit of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is heard that this cannot be done. It is important to send a message to colleagues in Serbia so that they behave that neighbouring countries, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina define things in their defence strategies, so no one is doing it in Europe. I think we really have an obligation to open that question. We also have an obligation to invite the High Representative to respond to this. I think we have an obligation to call on the guarantees of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and Serbia is a signator, not guaranteed, to take this issue seriously, because it won't just cross over this. This is an opportunity to invite neighbouring Serbia to have such a strategy that also collapses Annex I-B of the Dayton Peace Agreement, that the sooner it withdraws with the goal of building good neighbourly relations throughout the Western Balkans region.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u300	Since time is up, I've been patient enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u301	Here, thank the chairman. I deliver to you in writing, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u302	Thank you. Here, we heard Mr Bećirović's proposal. Since there are no more proposals for a debate on the agenda, I am closing the debate. Please initiate voting procedure on Mr. Denis Bećirović's proposal. Thank you very much. Attending 15 – for it was 5, against 9, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH for 5, against 4, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska against 5. The general majority doesn't exist. Thank you very much, this proposal has not passed. Thank you. I hereby conclude that the agenda we have proposed, by rejecting this proposal, Mr Bećirović and adopting it. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st and 2nd haste sessions and 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a discussion on the records. Is anyone picking up? 5 Since there is no one reported we conclude the debate. Please initiate voting procedure. We are voting on the minutes of the 1st haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much. Attendance 15-15 for, no one against, no one restrained. From Federation of BiH 10 – all for, Republika Srpska 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the minutes of the 1st haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Let's run the voting procedure on the record for the 2nd emergency session. Thank you very much. Of the 15 present – 15 for, no one abstention, no one against. From the Federation of BiH 10 – all for, from Republika Srpska 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the minutes of the 2nd haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Please initiate voting procedure for the Third Session of the People's House. Thank you very much. Attendance 15-15 for, there is no one against and abstention. From the Federation of BiH 10 – all for, from Republika Srpska 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. The selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Peoples: g) the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, h) the Joint Committee for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, (i) the Joint Committee for Economic Reform and Development, (j) the Joint Committee for European Integration, (k) the Joint Committee for Administrative Affairs, (l) the Joint Committee for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u308	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u309	I'll do it all over again, all over again... mistake. Thank you very much, excuse me for these technical problems. You have now received a decision, I suppose correct, on the election, or proposal of members of the Joint Committee of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and while we are discussing this point you will also get a proposal on the appointment of members of parliamentary delegations, so we have both. Since we've broken the session, I'll read all the emissaries over and over again so there's no confusion. For the members of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, BiH is proposed: - Šemsudin Mehmedović, - Sanja Vulić, - Borjana Krišto, - Dragan Mektić, - Dženan Đonlagić, - Zukan Helez, - Amir Fazlić, - Asim Sarajlić, - Dušanka Majkić, - Sredoje Nović, - Marina Pendeš, 8 - Bariša Čolak. For the members of the Joint Committee for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency BiH are proposed: - Safet Softić, - Nenad Stevandić, - Predrag Kožul, - Nermin Nikšić, - Mirko Šarović, - Zlatan Begić, - Asim Sarajlić, - Nikola Špirić, - Sredoje Nović, - Bariša Čolak, - Marina Pendeš, - Munib Jusufović The members of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development suggest: - Šemsudin Dedić, - Dragan Bogdanić, - Edita Đapo, - jasmin Emrić, - Jakov Galić, - Enver Bijedić, - Amir Fazlić, - Lidija Bradara, - Munib Jusufović, - Mladen Bosić, - Zlatko Miletić. Members of the Joint Committee for European Integration are proposed: - Halid Genjac, - Denis Zvizdić, - Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, - Lazar Prodanović, - Lidija Bradara, - Nikola Lovrinović, - Branislav Borenović, - Saša Magazinović, - Amir Fazlić, - Bariša Čolak, - Denis Bećirović and - Mladen Bosić. 9 For the members of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs are proposed: - Nermin Mandra, - Safet Softić, - Obren Petrović, - Borjana Krišto, - Vlatko Glavaš, - Nebojša Radmanović, - Asim Sarajlić, - Amir Fazlić, - Sredoje Nović, - Nikola Špirić, - Bariša Čolak, - Lidija Bradara. Members of the Joint Committee for Human Rights are proposed: - Edin Mušić, - Ljubica Miljanović, - Darijana Filipović, - Aida Baručija, - Mirjana Marinković-Marinković-Lepić, - Nenad Stevandić, - Prodanović Svetanovic, - Dušanka Majkić, - Marina Pendeš, - Zlatko Miletić, - Munib Jusufović and - Denis Bećirović. These are the proposals of all six committees adopted, adopted by the Joint College. I am opening a debate on this item of the agenda, that is, these proposals. Zlatko Miletić applied for the debate. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u310	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I would like to welcome you and your deputies. I am taking the opportunity to welcome ministers and deputies to the Council of Ministers and also to congratulate them on the election, I hope that in the coming period we will work well together and help the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina solve many problems in the coming period. I welcome the representatives of the Secretariat, the professional services, the representatives of international organisations, of course and the media present. Thinking at all about whether to answer for the discussion or not, but considering that we were chosen here in the same way by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a part of the people who see some support in this regard in me and see some, some grain of rule of law, I answered for a discussion just like last time to point out again the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Conduct. Given that at our last session of 20.12., I was talking about when 10 we chose permanent committee memberships, or permanent commissions, and I told you about the problem that happened then, that the chair of our club had not asked me for an opinion, nor informed me, and that I had only learned about the fact that I had been put on that committee that day. At first, I thought it was a possible failure, about some kind of vision, here's that... the closest I've said, some kind of malignancy, and now behind that, since I've had the chance to see from our club president, that's the 23rd act, in which again, without any consultation with me, without any information, without any question, whether I have any wish, whether I know anything or if I have any preference to do anything in those commissions, the woman is simply, I suppose, by her own discretion or in consultation with someone, made that list and delivered, whether or not, at the Joint College. With that in mind, and to be polite and cultural and not to violate the Codex, as you normally do here, I am Mr. Chairman of the House of Representatives and I hope that you have had the opportunity to see it and to read it, and I have pointed out to this very thing that this is not right to work this way, that in this way you are destroying the integrity of us as members of this House and I think having everything in mind, that you once word-exploited this act. I don't have a problem with that, since the contents of the act don't know the other envoys and delegates here, I said that basically given that my job or my professional career was focused on the security sector, where I spent 30 years, so I could make my biggest contribution there, I'm not reporting for reasons to treat any of my complexes and to tell you that I have to be, on the contrary, but I want to tell you one other thing that is very important right now, and I'm asking you to take care of it. However I turn around and turn around, and why I've essentially appeared is a violation of a member or an article 5. I am now convinced that this is about discrimination, whether religious, ethnic or political. If it's about me being DF, and you hate DF, I can understand that in a political context, and I understand that. If the problem with my expertise is, unfortunately or fortunately, this is when it turns out to be my accident, that at least a third of the delegates of this House have been working criminally, if that's the problem, then I'm asking you to say it. What exactly am I talking about? Given that one of the gentlemen sitting here is Mr. Sredoja Nović, whom I particularly respect professionally and to me as a man and person, it doesn't matter that he's from the SNSD, that someone said to me we'll put Mr. Nović instead of you in both of these committees, I would say, well done, it's one of the few people, no matter what he sits here, who knows it better than I do. Not to mention the fact that in both of these committees, which I was interested in, there were people who were suspected of the most serious crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In my view, it's a shame, it doesn't have to be done that way, and this is just the tip of the iceberg, and that's why I volunteered, this way it's done or violated the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this way by putting in commissions of such people, and through them, they simply serve as a mechanism for carrying out inappropriate political influence, first of all, on the work of security and every other agency. I'm just going to point out one example here that's important. Quite accidentally, and it has to do with this, our security agencies spent about 220 million money last year, including the BiH Prosecutor's Office. What they did could fit into one sheet of paper, it's a shame for this country, and I don't think it's working this way. For these reasons, I will be abstention in voting for these proposals, and I ask the rest of you to keep this in mind, is that if we don't take care of this, we will never enter the European Union and we will never meet the conditions laid down in chapters 23 and 24 that, at that time, will come order and which will.... allow a little justice in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u311	Thank you, colleague Miletić. The word was answered by Mr. Denis Bećirović. Comrade Bećirović, please. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u312	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We have just a point today – the selection of members of the joint committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 15 January 2020. The House of Representatives was established in December 2018, the House of Peoples in February, March 2019 and only now in January 2020 we have the appointment of members of joint committees, absolutely one unacceptable thing. When we look at the Rules of Procedure and the work of the People's House, it is clear that we had to finish this part of the work long ago as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, but here we are witnessing that, unfortunately, it has not happened today. It is also evident, at least in writing and in the stenogram, that the practice of violating the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples continues. And when it comes to the structure of the proposed ones and those to be appointed today, it has already been better spoken by fellow Miletić, so there is no need to add anything, so I would like to say that I will be against the appointment of these members of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u313	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. Since there are no more reports for the hearing, I'm closing the debate. As I also pointed out to the Joint College today, on the basis of a much larger number of proposals from clubs, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure, which also provides for entity representation, home representation and, of course, the participation of individual parties in these two homes, which I have put forward and agreed with the proposal that I have made to you. I propose that we initiate the voting procedure on the appointment of members from the House of Peoples in the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, the Joint Commission for the Control of Labour of the Security and Security Agency of BiH, the Joint Committee for Economic Reform and Development, the Joint Commission for European Integration, the Joint Committee for Administrative Affairs and the Joint Committee for Human Rights, in accordance with the proposal established by the Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for 12, v. 2, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – for 8, against 2. Republika Srpska – 4 for and 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have appointed as members of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH: Amir Fazlić, Asim Sarajlić, Dušank Majkić, Sredoja Nović, Marina Pendeš and Bariša Čolak. Asim Sarajlić, Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Bariša Čolak, Marina Pendeš and Munib Jusufović were elected as members of the Joint Committee for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. The members of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development were selected: Amir Fazlić, Lazar Prodanović, Lidija Bradara, Munib Jusufović, Mladen Bosić, Zlatko Miletić. The members of the Joint Committee on European Integration were selected: Lazar Prodanović, Lidija Bradara, Amir Fazlić, Bariša Čolak, Denis Bećirović, Mladen Bosić. 12 For the members of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs are selected: Asim Sarajlić, Amir Fazlić, Sredoje Nović, Nikola Špirić, Bariša Čolak, Lidija Bradara. The members of the Joint Committee for Human Rights were also elected: Lazar Prodanović, Dušanka Majkić, Marina Pendeš, Zlatko Miletić, Munib Jusufović and Denis Bećirović. Thank you very much. That concludes the point of today's 2nd agenda. We move to the point of three established agendas, Ad. 3. The appointment of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the House of Peoples: (a) The delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Interparliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Inerparliamentary Union (IPU), (b) the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), (c) the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Cooperation Organisation (PSOESS), (d) the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Union (PSNATO), (e) the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Central European Initiative (SEI), (f) the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PAM), (g) the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Central European Parliament in the Central European Parliament (SEC). A joint college of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes at the 4th session, held on 15 January 2020, taking into account the proposals submitted by candidates from representatives' clubs in the House of Representatives and clubs of the People's House for members of the Permanent Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH established a proposal for a decision to appoint members of parliamentary delegations. The House of Parliamentary Assembly will be held at the 3rd session to be held tomorrow, January 16, 2020, to discuss the appointment of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations from the House of Representatives. We are left with the appointment of representatives from the House of Peoples to the permanent delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in line with the proposal for decisions set out by the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. I am opening a debate on these initiatives, or proposals. As no one has answered the word, I will now read to you all the proposals on the appointment of members of parliamentary delegations, which you have received, I hope, in a properly processed form with little delay. The first members of the Interparliamentary Group of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Interparliamentary Union from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are now appointed, i.e.: 13 - Safet Softić, - Nikola Špirić, - Predrag Kožul, - Nenad Nešić, - Mirko Šarović, - Nada Mladina, - Predrag Kojović, - Branislav Borenović. Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE): - Alma Čolo, - Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, - Borjana Krišto, - Edita Đapo, - Mladen Bosić, as members. And deputies: - Amir Fazlić, - Sanja Vulić, - Marina Pendeš, - Saša Magazinović, - Zlatan Begić. Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (PSOESS): - Halid Genjac, - Dušanka Majkić, - Dragan Čović. Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance (PSNATO): - Asim Sarajlić, - Obren Petrović, - Nikola Lovrinović. Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Central European Initiative (SEI): - Šemsudin Dedić, - Jakov Galić, - Lazar Prodanović. Members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (PAM): - Šemsudin Mehmedović, - Sredoje Nović, - Darijana Filipović. Members of the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (PAUfM): - Nermin Mandra, - Dragan Bogdanić, two candidates. 14 Finally, members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in Southeast Europe from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (PSSEECP), as members: - Edin Mušić, - Ljubica Miljanović, - Bariša Čolak, - Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, - Aida Baručija. As deputies: - Mira Pekić, - Mirsad Kukić, - Zukan Helez, - Nenad Stevandić and - jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u315	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u316	For members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the countries of the Francophone Vocabulary (PSF) from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we proposed: - Adil Osmanović. Here's all the suggestions. We're opening the debate one more time. If no one's answering, no one checked in, we're closing the argument. I propose we initiate the voting procedure on the appointment of members of parliamentary delegations in line with the proposal set out by the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you, thank you very much. Attendance 15 – to vote 13, against 1st abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – for 9, against 1. From Republika Srpska – 4 for and 1 abstention. There is a general, there is an entity majority and I agree that the members of the parliamentary delegations from the House of Nations are appointed as: - Nikola Špirić, a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Interparliamentary Group of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Interparliamentary Union, - Mladen Bosić and Amir Fazlić, members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), and Marina Pendeš as a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), - Amir Fazlić
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u317	only Dušanka Majkić and Dragan Čović. [[no microphone turned on]] 15
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u318	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u319	I'm the only one who's rounding it up. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u320	- Dušanka Majkić and Dragan Čović members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (PSOESS) and - Asim Sarajlić, another apology, this is, these are members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance (PSNATO),
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u321	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-15-0.u322	- For members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Central European Initiative (SEI) Lazar Prodanović, - For members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PAM) Sredoje Nović, - For members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, we have only representatives in the proposal from the House of Representatives, - For members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Co-operation Process in South-East Europe from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (PSSEECP) Bariša Čolak, the other proposals from the House of Representatives have been made. Here I hope that, with this little technical problem, I have been able to read correctly what we have voted on as representatives of the House of Peoples in these bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have exhausted today's agenda and ended the 3rd haste session of the House of Peoples. I thank and conclude the third session again. Session completed at 12:59 p.m.
