ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2418	Ladies and gentlemen! I greet you all very cordially and open the 2nd. Meeting of the National Council. ==References====External links== National Council meeting of 29. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and therefore does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. For today's meeting as ill or prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Mertel, Mag. Chief, Dr. Khol, Dr. Rasinger, and Dr. Pilz. Letter of representation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2455	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the representation of members of the government made the following messages: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel is represented by Ms. State Secretary Dr. Ferrero-Waldner. In the case of the simultaneous prevention of Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Mr. Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Michalek would be entrusted with the representation. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2482	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: "Austria needs a new form of politics, without proporz and party book economy" Mr Scheibner was the first speaker to speak. The first speaker's speaking time is known to be 10 minutes. There will then be an opinion on the subject. Please, Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2512	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October, the Austrians have given a clear signal, in the direction of the title of today's current hour, that we need a new policy for this country – and that above all, this division of the country, all areas of society, the economy and the administration among those two parties that have so far put the government. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard some statements from government representatives in the last few weeks, you can hope that some of these signs have also been recognized. After all, some demands were suddenly discussed by us liberals, such as the reform or the aggregation of social security institutions – or not. It was said immediately: Well, that's actually difficult, maybe it's not. - So pushed to the long bench! Then German Chancellor Klima presented a pension reform – or not. In his own party's bureau, he was unable to enforce himself with this. It also discussed democracy, including the democratic rights of Parliament. For the first time, you said – also an old demand from the liberals – that Parliamentary control rights should be taken seriously again, that investigation committees should become a minority right: a third or a quarter of the Members should be able to bring it in, or not. This has not been heard since this first announcement; there are no applications in this direction. Then you have said that foreign policy is now becoming more representative of Austrian interests, such as the question of nuclear power stations close to the border. Mrs Prammer has suddenly said that this will become a junkim for the accession negotiations with the states on our border – or not. In fact, German Chancellor Klima said shortly afterwards: No, no, we're not gonna make a junkim out of it, but we're gonna negotiate a little bit. At any rate, these states should not be put under pressure, according to the Austrian Federal Chancellor. Finally, there were a number of words – including government representatives – in which it was said that it must finally be over with the propor and the party book economy – or not, ladies and gentlemen. We've heard these announcements. Federal Chancellor climate itself has said that it must finally end the party book economy and the post office chess company in our country; the proporz must be eliminated, because in a modern society it has no place. – Well, ladies and gentlemen, we agree – if that were actually self-criticism, if only one really wanted to go a different way! We see, however, ladies and gentlemen, that there are conflicts between the EIA and the SPÖ in many areas of content. In one area, however, one still understands very well, which is what proporz and the party book economy, what the post awarding of the party book is about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly after the election, at the same time as the end of the proportion was announced, there were still such post awards, there were "of course" orders, at least the attempt to occupy posts according to the party's book in the highest areas of administration, but also in areas of the economy. Mr Kostelka! They have said at all what this issue should be today, but there would be no proportion and no mail chess. Is that not a matter for the Federal Government, but only a virtual problem?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! What are the virtual comments of the Federal Chancellor?- Oh, my God! What virtual programme of yours, Mr Kostelka, is this then to abolish the alleged non-existent proportion? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what I'm asking myself: If there is no longer this proportion, how is it possible to appoint, after the NR elections, for example, the highest officer of the Austrian federal army, who is "at random" an ÖVP staff representative? – You can discuss the qualification of the designated General Force Inspector. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is he qualified or not qualified?]] I have my opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Do you confess?]] The person concerned did not turn out in a way to be entrusted with the highest function in the Austrian federal army in the preparation of the new army and the adaptation which was implemented without any basis, without existing infrastructure. But he was, as has been said, ÖVP personnel representatives for many years! If there were only material criteria, why, Mr Kostelka, should the Director-General for Public Security – "at random" a SPÖ-near candidate – be re-occupied now? This will only be relevant next year! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: With 1. - Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! Even the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is no longer playing with it. So far, we believe that we agree with this, the President of the Federal Government has not given his Sanctuary to this type of party book economy and post-posting, because he has not signed your proposals – and I also hope that this will remain so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's pretty grotesque how you split up this country from SPÖ and ÖVP, from kindergarten to pension home! Collect the "red" stamp collectors other than the "black"? You, Mr Kostelka, are the president of the Workers' Fisheries Association. Do we really need a party organization to fish in Austria? Are the Socialists different from the Conservatives or the ÖVPlers? [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ASKÖ!]] Are broken cars repaired by a SPÖ-near pan help organization different from those of an ÖVP-near pan aid organization? It's all grotesque! No one can believe this if you tell us what conditions there are in our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ASKÖ!]] I would also like to stress here that we will keep reminding you of this system. An example: I have a press release in front of me from 27. September of this year, titled: "Court Court Limits Post Chess." High Courts must already step in to put the posters in the barriers! For Eleven years, a customs guard official had to fight an injustice, a disadvantage in the award of posts motivated by the party's book. In this knowledge of the Supreme Court it is said – I quote – that: "On the basis of the appreciation of the entire conduct of the Minister" – to the explanation: then Minister of Finance Lacina – "in particular of his intensive interventions", the Upper Regional Court of Vienna concluded that: The applicant was not appointed because the Minister could not have enforced himself with his wish for appointment of the party friend." [[Abg. May. Trattner: Awesome!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Another thing, just because it's about ex-Finanzminister Lacina: The Republic of Austria now has more than 1 million Schilling to pay for damages for this type of post award. And exactly this Minister Lacina has recently given the results of the election of 3. In October 1999, he said: "In Austria it smells." – I say to you: In the case of such post awards, it smells! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is important to find the voters who do not insult Austrians after a vote, but at last to stop such things and to ensure that citizens of our country do not have to fight for eleven years through the mills of justice in order to get to their right, or with this kind of The method of post-contracting is abandoned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, it could also be argued that the National Bank and that, after the disaster of Mr Praschak's suicide, the German Chancellor climate initiated a "five-point programme" to abolish the proportion and the post-chapter. But in the re-construction of the National Bank you went exactly after this proportion: There is even a written agreement on who should become Vice-President, who can propose to the President, who can propose the Director-General and so on. – So you from SPÖ and ÖVP are really not able to learn at all! Mr Finanzminister! Once you have been elected, there is also a quick post office after the election, because you do not know who the next Finance Minister will be; therefore, you have to quickly bring your own party friends into certain functions. Another example, ladies and gentlemen: At the OMC, Mr Ruttenstorfer has to be freed quickly from the position of the Director-General. – I think the OMV is a successful company. Although I have nothing against it if a member of the government, who has previously been in a position at the OMV, comes back to this function, but that the person concerned is immediately promoted, although he has not worked in this company for years, I do not understand that he now has to become Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. And that also lacks any material basis! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What we need in Austria, these are not announcements, no foggings and veilings, but what we need, is finally a new policy that works only in the interests of Austria and the population – and that it finally ends sharing posts and positions, from kindergarten to retirement home, among the political parties! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we liberals will do everything they can – put an end to this pride, to this poster! We need more freedom for citizens, we need more achievement, we need more justice!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2693	On the issue of an opinion pursuant to § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be spoken by the Minister of State. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2715	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is of course the right of the National Council to discuss issues of interest here in plenary. And that is good, and as a newly elected member of the National Council, I would not be allowed to accept this right either. However, since the Rules of Procedure provide that, at a current hour, a member of the Austrian Federal Government has also participated in the debate from the government bank, I have agreed to do so, although, despite the most intense efforts, I have not been able to discover any competence on the subject of proporz and party book economy in the provisions governing the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The Federal Chancellor did not want to participate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There must even be President Fischer!]] I therefore want to make my contribution to the debate – and I understand this too – as a statement from the Government Bank, and I will try to ensure that you do not assume afterwards that it would have been wiser to speak from the Chamber of Deputies. This would not be in line with the Rules of Procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you approach this issue – and I seriously believe it is an important issue – then you should look back a little on the history of our country. One of the basic thoughts in the establishment of the Second Republic was to involve all social forces in the process of reconstruction of our country. That was, of course, a completely different time than today. Never again – that was the thought that was expressed at the time – should Austrians face each other on barricades; Commonness, but also mutual control, was therefore in the foreground. These forces were essentially gathered – this is historically evident – in two major political camps, which, in relation to their strength, i.e. proportionally, should bear responsibility for the reconstruction of our democracy and its institutions. This was the thought, was the system called "proporz". Since then, I think it is important to note that Austria has developed into a very strong democracy, a country in which prosperity and peace prevail. Of course, the political framework has also changed in these fifty years. Today, there are several important political camps in Austria. The system of proportional involvement of forces in all institutions therefore no longer has the stabilizing function that can be derived from history. However, I would like to point out in all clarity that this cannot mean, on the other hand, that the political forces withdraw completely from the process of shaping society. I mean, it would be fatal, it would be wrong to believe that politically interested and committed people should be excluded from responsible tasks in the public service and in the public economy. This would make us a facilitator of a development which could lead to an opposite, yes, even dangerous situation for our democracy. Political commitment – I think every right here will give me – is the real foundation of any democracy. Politics and parties are therefore something valuable in themselves, because people who think politically, act politically and take responsibility for others also show their profile in this situation and carry out their tasks and their responsibilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, those who believe that politics and parties should no longer play a role should be of no importance, but this also implies that politics is not really worth anything. – I mean, anyway, that such an attitude is not correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What would that mean? – We would be responsible for society and many important functions in this society – in the truest sense of the word! – let go of those who have no opinion and no attitude towards their work, people and society. But politics, as I mean, means responsibility, means willingness to design for society. And politics is also the design mission of society – legitimated by democratic elections. However, there is a need for politically interested people in all areas of society, and in the end there is a need for an instrument for implementation. We therefore need – to do so – people who are socially and politically interested and committed in the administration. We need officials who not only fulfill the letters of the law but also need those who are concerned about the impact of the laws on the citizens. I therefore say, of course, that the public service is looking for the best of minds, that the professional suitability in the case of occupations is examined in detail and is the prerequisite for inclusion in the public service. The tendering law has therefore also been valid since 1989, and there have since been calls for tenders and test procedures for all admissions. The Procurement Act has to enable information and access to all vacancies, it guarantees modern personnel selection procedures, and the recruitment is objectively achieved through verifiable procedures. I do not want to be apprehensive about the fact that there can be further improvements over and over again. That is why I also say a clear yes to the constant improvement of selection criteria. There are, for example, those proposals that SPÖ and ÖVP have drawn up for the purpose of targeting human resources policies in the event of new take-offs and promotions. For example, nationally anonymised candidate tests and performance determinations and greater control are proposed as well as ressort responsibility. That's what I'm saying. However, I say no – and I would like to point out in all clarity – to a bulwark of politics and a public service, in which political thinking and commitment of people would be a reason to be active or to move forward. I am of the opinion that it is not an advantage to be politically committed, but we also have to do everything we can to ensure that it will not be a disadvantage to be politically committed if we apply for a function. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is clear today that professional qualifications are the most important prerequisite for the occupation of functions in the federal administration or in public property undertakings. For public administration is on the public's critical test stand and has to prove and improve its performance constantly. Public ownership companies are also in an increasingly tougher international economic competition. It is therefore right to find suitable candidates for the freedom to provide services in public undertakings through calls for tender and staff consultants. Indeed, rules similar to those for the private sector should apply to public enterprises. This is why, in the previous year, we adopted the Employment Act, which sets out important provisions here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make a few comments because they seem important to me, but I would like to add that they are personal considerations. No private owner, I believe, would ultimately have his manager's position occupied by a staff advisor. This is and remains the responsibility of the owner. He decides, for it is not the personal advisor who bears responsibility for the occupation or for any misdevelopments, but it is the owner who bears the responsibility. As in the economy, this should also be the case in the case of public undertakings or managers, as well as in the administration of: Exploration by staff advisors, but decision by those who also have the ownership function legally. I also believe that this is correct and indispensable in the sense of the exercise of responsibility. This is also true in other areas, for why, for example, were the new supervisory boards of KELAG not publicly issued in Carinthia, but simply ordered by Mr Landeshuptmann? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: These are independents!]] I don't even criticize it. These are obviously personalities of his trust. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Independent!]] I believe that it is important that professional qualifications play a role, but also that the production of the trust relationship with the person responsible is essential and correct. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think the discussion is correct and good. I believe that it is wrong to become something in public administration or in public enterprises because of political commitment, but I am equally determined that, although there is a qualification, someone should not be in question only because he is politically involved. That would be a misdevelopment that I am not able to contribute.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2853	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his opinion. In the further discussion, speaking times, as you know, are limited by 5 minutes each. Mrs Riess-Passer spoke. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2881	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister of Finance! I would like to start by thanking you for your clarity, which you have today made with your very explicit commitment to the Party Policy Protocol, because that makes it very clear what is to be kept by the political promises made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to abolish the pro-porces you have so well-founded today. If one has listened to you, then one must have the feeling that the basis of social peace, security and democracy in this country has been just this partisan proportion. If you say that the withdrawal of political forces from responsible tasks and from the design process does not make sense, I must tell you, Minister of Finance: Political shaping cannot be a red-black colour teaching in post-posting, but political forms can only and must be called performance and qualification as the basis of post-posting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have said that you have no competence in the field of propore and party accounting in your place of business as Minister of Finance. To do this, I have to tell you: You may already have no competence, but of course you know very well how it is, because the most recent occupations of group leader positions in the Ministry of Finance are one of the many examples that we might present in this discussion today. It was already before the end of the application period to read in the media who will occupy the corresponding posts. [[Abg. Scheibner: Such a coincidence!]] These places were, of course, very beautifully divided according to the proportion of two to two between SPÖ and ÖVP, as then irreconcilable in all media to read. Your shawls towards objectivation, which you still added at the end of your speech today, are of course also to be considered in connection with the historical development of these promises, which have been made by both government parties for 13 years. I have to tell you: We have heard the message for 13 years, we alone lack faith! It was already at the beginning of the new edition of the great coalition in 1986 that the confession was that it would be quite different that one would not do it the way it used to be, that one would get away from the party propaganda. Then there was the Chamber of Workers scandal in 1990. I am now saving you from reading all these thousand vows and vows, which there were then, that such a thing will never happen again, that you have learned from the mistakes of the past. The then Federal Chancellor Vranitzky said: These are old loads from the era Kreisky, we don't want to have anything to do with them anymore. I will implement a four-point programme so that this will no longer happen in the future. Then there were a number of other stories that were, of course, quite opposite. As a result, in 1992, the then SPÖ Central Secretary, Mr Cap, said: We will launch a large initiative against the culture of privilege in this country and will finally implement the four-point programme of Vranckky – which, however, had already passed for three years without being implemented at the time – into action. Then nothing happened again. In the meantime, there were some coalition and government conventions, which included confessions, the party book economy, and the propor. In the meantime, there were then two anti-privileged peoples' desires of the FPÖ. That's what it said: They're superfluous, because there's no such thing! The FPÖ makes popular desires against something that does not exist at all! Then – Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner mentioned it already – the tragic suicide of Mag came. Gerhard Praschak, who followed a five-point programme of the German Chancellor Viktor Klima für Clearness, Openness and Control. In March 1999, there was a country election in Carinthia, Tirol and Vorarlberg, after which you, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, explained: We have understood the message of voters. There will be a whole new kind of government cooperation – without proporz and without post chess. We'll make a new style. They had not yet talked about this, since there were already the post-achievers: from the hundreds of officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who were arrested in hostages to the Party-political exclusion of the occupation of the new EU Commissioner and so on and so on. As keywords, one could call ÖIAG, Vienna Airport, the "Austrian Advertising" and so on – the list could continue endlessly. ==References====External links== October is now again promised that there will be no more party book economy and that a corresponding package of objects will be decided upon. You only need to read what today's newspapers in connection with the "Austrian advertising" in terms of courtiers and macho or in terms of the appointment of Mrs. Ex-ÖVP member Moser to the head of the Council of Europe Office in Sarajevo – without even having any foreign political qualifications in this direction – report, then you will see that between your words and your actions there are still miles of ravines. As long as these canyons exist, you are simply not credible on this question, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2926	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2948	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A new policy was called for by the two previous speakers of the Liberal Group. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You always promised!]] – I can only join this demand, especially with regard to Carinthia. [[Abg. Scheibner: referring to the SPÖ in Carinthia, do you mean? What about Mr. Manzenreiter?]] Mrs Riess-Passer! You pointed out that you looked at today's paper. Before I got here, I only read in the APA and found a message there at 9.40 a.m., according to the post of the director of the music school in Carinthia. The special feature is that, after more than 40 years, the tendering conditions are suddenly changed. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Young.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God! It took long enough!]] Interestingly, for this highly qualified activity, because a freeman of state has come, a degree in music education is no longer necessary. [[Oh! Call at the SPÖ.]] They seem to know from the outset who is to receive this function, and in this context they have unilaterally changed the terms of the invitation to tender in a direction in which any qualification requirements are not considered. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is like the rectors at the university!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, fits into the picture of the Freedom Party in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Finally sue the head of state!]] In Carinthia there are benhartes political personnel management of the staff officer Dr. Jörg Haider, and in Vienna elevate [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why Manzenreiter has resigned!]] You have a moral claim that this activity does not satisfy Haiders in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why Manzenreiter has resigned!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I wouldn't say so much to Carinthia right now!]] This can be clearly demonstrated by several examples: The call for tenders for the Cultural Department of the Office of the Carinthian Government has been withdrawn. The cultural advisor of the country of Carinthia, a certain Mr. Mölzer – you will certainly know him very well from the Freiheitliche Bildungswerk – was ordered without a call. [[Abg. Scheibner: Refugee!]] The two Supervisory Board members of the Carinthian Electricity Company – both former secretary of Haider – were appointed against the law without a call for tender. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! That's not true!]] The Landtagsamtsdirektor was appointed without a call for tender. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is not true, my colleague.]] – I could continue the list of examples for a long time. [[Abg. Scheibner: You believe your own propaganda! That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing in Carinthia is funny about what you're saying here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You believe your own propaganda!]] The Federal Minister has already pointed out that the political reliability of officials immediately after 1945 was the subject of a reasoned decision on the occupation of a function. It's different today. Today – and I can remind you that, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party – political membership must not be an obstacle to a public function, but it must not be an advantage. This corresponds to what we have implemented step by step in the last few decades with the prosecutors and with the judges in 1986, in the procurement law in 1989, in the UOG 1993 and in addition to the constitutional judges in 1994. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The 1998 Employment Act should also be mentioned in this context. Do what we have proved at federal level in Carinthia! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I wouldn't say so much to Carinthia right now!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the KELAG? You wanted to provide the Ambrozy, that's your problem!]] You have the opportunity! Beinhartes Personal Management on Blue in Carinthia is your answer! This is your problem: that in Carinthia it is acted differently than at the federal level! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Carinthia is a bad example here!]] We confess to objectivity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We confess to objectivity! We are committed to a programme of the strictest public service measures in Europe. In the future, only more people will enter the public service in the context of a competition-like procedure, which will carry out an appropriate examination. The processing of this test will be carried out in anonymized form. It will be verifiable by a judicial authority. And the career in the public service will be accompanied by objective examinations and training measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I invite you to participate in this program and turn your Carinthia into the blue personnel industry! [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Then you have to implement it too!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But at the federal level, in the party!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3271	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3300	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The quality and performance of employees – I believe everyone will agree with me – are crucial factors for the success of companies and organisations, including political organisations and bodies. The staff decisions to be taken there are probably the most important management tasks to be carried out in these organisations. Only: The decisions taken by staff in these organisations have a completely different impact. In a private company which is in competition, which must claim to be on the market, personnel decisions are logical to contribute to the achievement of the goal. Finally, the quality of these personnel decisions is reflected in the assessment instrument available to companies moving on the market: namely, in the balance sheet of this company, which is to be assessed by the capital owner. We have experienced what the disdain of such criteria can cause in the national industry, which, although it must have been claimed on the market, has lost its share of 100 billion schilling by disregarding such principles. It was the ÖVP that enforced privatisation in this area as the only suitable instrument for the design of the decisions taken in these companies so that these companies could claim to be on the market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is completely different in the whole area of public administration. There is no assessment instrument of the balance sheet, i.e. the incorruptible, impartial testimony to this sector. However, this means that in these institutions a spirit, a self-conception of competition, of result orientation cannot necessarily and automatically arise. This means that if personnel decisions are taken without taking into account these quality requirements, they do not automatically attract the "strave" of the market or the capital owner. – I know that this statement cannot be left out because it would be exaggerated and would mean a generalization also in relation to all those performance-oriented in these organizations, in this public administration. Because even the performance-oriented there suffers from this lack of distribution of evidence. What can the solution to this situation look like? – If an output assessment in the sense of the private sector is not possible, then you take advantage of the means, the input, i.e. the search and the selection of employees, to design differently. This is what we have done with the Employment Act and other instruments. There are new proposals – Khol and Kostelka – since these instruments are not yet sufficiently effective: for example, anonymized tests, independent control bodies, individual decisions of the ministers in their offices rather than the collective decision of the Council of Ministers. If the Minister is to stop his head for what is happening in his administration, he must also be able to take responsibility for the occupation on his own. What we need, however, is also a new philosophy of personnel management. She's not quite new: Instruments such as target agreements, employee talks and evaluations, competition between authorities or even performance-oriented payments have already been introduced or implemented, and they will help us achieve this. The first approach I mentioned, input instruments, is more a defensive one. The second, more competition, more power-consciousness and orientation in the administration, presupposes and causes a change of consciousness among the people there. Authorities in competition – and there are already examples of this, such as district captains who compete for shorter approval periods, and so on – also recruit their staff differently and in other respects. What we need throughout the public sector, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly this public debate that we are now holding...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3348	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3363	... is a new self-understanding towards performance and result orientation, towards more competitive elements. This automatically leads to a new approach – and must also lead to – to party membership. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The Minister of Finance – this is my last sentence! – has already pointed out. On the one hand, there can't be any post without a party book, but it can't be the pendulum right now in the other direction...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3393	The speaking time is over, Mr Deputies. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Head.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: So, how is that?]] The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3429	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been better if the Federal Chancellor had stayed here a little longer, because I think that the whole matter of the party book economy could be resolved again in the example of the last weeks and months of this provisional Federal Government. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: He's here anyway!]] I can well remember this: The provisional Federal Government has been installed, and what was one of the first decisions of the Council of Ministers? - A mail package. A party-political postal package. I am of your opinion, Mr Federal Minister, if you say that qualified "partisans" should also have a chance. But if, in this beautiful small item package, not only qualified party members, not only those who have emerged through political and other qualifications, may come to the fore, but if not least because of the fact that there is a SPÖ member and there an ÖVP member needed to be able to bind the post package at all, then, Mr. Federal Minister, the question arises whether this is really the beginning of a new time. Is it really a fresh start when the Federal Chancellor comes to the public a few days later and announces: "Now it's over with party book economy and proporz!"? Is it really a new beginning when a few days after this statement in Vienna on the occasion of the appointment of school directors becomes apparent once again what is meant by "objectivation" and "close with the party book economy"? – It is inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that in Vienna, but not only in Vienna, obviously so long in the appointment of directors, is "objectivated" until the right one comes out! You call that a fresh start? Is that really the beginning? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, if you do exactly the same thing in Carinthia, namely move forward the objectivity of the objectivation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It will be objective until a free candidate comes out! And the media, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, tell you. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you have nothing to talk about down there! How many... do you have in Carinthia?]] There are still enough examples in Carinthia. The only "progress" in the party book economy has been achieved in the direction that red has been replaced by blue. Is that the end of the party book economy, the end of the pro-pore economy in Carinthia? Is this the new time that FPÖ has promised when Mr Klubdirector is proposed for a post when Party Secretary for Posts in Kärntner Landesholding and KELAG are proposed? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Is this the beginning of the new times when an independent candidate is proposed as district captain, but already a few days after his appointment as district captain, he says that he already has a close relationship with the liberals, for which he then moved into the country day a few years later as a parliamentarian? [[Abg. Scheibner: Do not say the falsehood!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you want to ban this?]] Is it really true that they have no other qualified persons than your party attorney Böhmdorfer, who has not only moved into the Kärntner Landesholding, but also a few weeks later in the Lower Austrian Landtag? [[Abg. Scheibner: Wrong too!]] Of course, he has to get out of Carinthia Landesholding again. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Completely wrong!]] Perhaps Mr. Böhmdorfer also appears somewhere in Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's all wrong! That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That can't be the new times. The Federal Minister has rightly said that it does not decide a staff consulting firm, but the owner should decide on the order. But I wonder: Who's in the social insurance institutions of the owners? Are these the social partners – whether they're red or black, whether the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Labour, the ÖGB or the Industrial Association? Are these the owners of social security and health insurance? Are these the true owners of unemployment insurance? Are these the owners of pension insurance? [[Abg. Scheibner: Who wrote this to you?]] Is it true that the schools of the Council of State Schools, the Council of Town Schools or the Advisory Board as well as the staff representatives act as owners? Is it true that the directors are ordered by these and not by the schools, not by the teachers, not by the parents, not by the students? – They have nothing to talk about! Are these the owners? Who are the owners?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3581	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3596	Ladies and gentlemen! Who are the owners of this country, namely ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ? Are these the associations, associations and parties, or are these the Austrian citizens? – Give You're democracy to this country and not your strange objectivization procedures!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3635	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3656	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make a comment on the debate by Mr Ollinger: I do not know who put this speech to you and gave you information about it, because what you are spreading here today in nonsense, how much wrong and how many inaccuracies you have given of yourself, really exceeds all that has been there so far. You should be better informed before – and only then come to the speaker's desk and say something. What you have said is wrong through the bank, and you should be told. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of the limited speaking time, a very brief comment to the honourable Member's Minister of Finance. That was really incredible today. This was not only the Sanctuary to the party book economy, which you have given to the House today, but really a confession to the post office chess and the cementing of the proportional system. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Go to the accusations that concern you!]] I do something you rarely hear from me: I would like to thank the ORF for the live transmission of this current hour so that everyone can hear and see that this system of post office chess and the party book economy in red and black is obviously to be continued. That is what we are fighting, and for that we are liberals in the election on 3rd. It was also rewarded on October because we are in favour of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And now to something very interesting. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka is speaking here and brings the example of Carinthia. In the present situation of his party, he brings the example of Carinthia! This is interesting; only Carinthia, who works for the country, doesn't even have a contact in the SPÖ anymore, because she's split up in air, has no oriental slumber and has no leadership at all. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Her party, the SPÖ in Carinthia, has actually resigned. And you bring the example Carinthia! I can't do that. You're serious, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are also completely misinformed regarding the KELAG Supervisory Board. Jörg Haider has actually carried out the party gangs and those who have received a job through the party book economy, and experts have come in. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mölzer!]] Even the Carinthian "Small Newspaper", which is not a FPÖ paper, in its issue on the day after the appointment of the KELAG Supervisory Board: Hair List: Bankers, lawyers, top managers. – Loud independent economic experts. [[Abg. Ollinger: Which lawyer?]] This is a model example of a post crew. You should once get used to doing so – and not send your party artists to the bodies everywhere. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Carinthia, you've done something quite different: They did not want to send anyone else – that is proven and undisputed – to the Supervisory Board as your failed former chairman of the Carinthian SPÖ, Mr. Ambrozy. If this mode, which Jörg Haider abolished, still exists, then Mr. Manzenreiter will probably be sitting in the Supervisory Board of KELAG from tomorrow – the next failed SPÖ politician with a supply post in this institution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can't be serious! Dr. Jörg Haider has not only appointed a party-independent national school council president for the first time in history, but he has also introduced a completely new objectiveion procedure, in which no further change by political influence is possible. This has been abolished. This example should make school. You should also submit to this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then there would no longer be a procedure such as since the Praschak suicide two years ago. I have a list here. There were not only seventeen red-black posts – I emphasize: seventeen in number! – in companies such as: Credit institution, ÖBB, Oesterreichische Nationalbank, Oesterreichische Controlbank, PSK, HL-AG, Pensionsversicherungsanstalt, at the European Court of Justice – Ex-Klubobmann Fuhrmann! – at the European Central Bank – former SPÖ financier Novotny! – at OMV, ÖIAG or Vienna Airport – high officials, even after the election – at "Austrian Advertising", Post & Telekom, VA-Tech, even to Vienna's Prater. There are red-black-occupied management organisations everywhere. The proportion is not only applied in Austria, but is now being transported and transferred to the European level – for example, in the EU Commission's and ambassador's posts. ==References====External links== June 1999 in a comment to read verbatim – I quote –: "It is quite doubly and lies about what German Chancellor Viktor Klima and Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel perform around the nomination of an EU Commissioner. At the end of the day, both are just about one thing: to secure a good post for their respective party, if necessary behind it." - Quote. That is the basic principle, this automaticism, which exists in post positions in this red-black braid, which we now have to treat once again after a choice. I emphasize: therapy has to be done because there is not only a chronological list of post-ordering, but this red-black post-occupying is a chronic disease in our country, which has spread over the last two years to a red-black – almost – epidemic in the political sense. I mean, we really have to start doing something. The first step...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3759	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3774	==References== In October, the voters made a clear sign that this red and black pro-porz system can no longer go on. If we are liberals in the government, we will prevent that from happening accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3804	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3825	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! By the end of the year, the term of the year is very often chosen. I mean, the term "proporz" has the best chance to be at the front. The population is discussing the subject of proporz, depending on temperament, critical to wrath. In any case, in connection with Proporz, the talk is always about removal and abolition. It seems clear that Proporz is something terriblely inappropriate. What's in the dude's mind? What does Bertelsmann say about this? [[Abg. Scheibner: Your Federal Chancellor says that the proportion will be removed!]] – Proporz: first: Distribution of mandates according to the ratio of votes cast. – Mr Scheibner, the distribution of mandates according to the ratio of votes. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Federal Chancellor says that! I hope that doesn't have any consequences for you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Is it not the case in the Austrian municipalities, is it not the best system for the representation in the municipal council – mayor, vice-bourgeois, municipal cashier – to be appointed to the municipal council depending on the outcome of the election? Has it not proved that everyone is involved in the responsibility? Is this majority system not appropriate for this proportional system? What else does Bertelsmann say? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I'll be right there. – Proporz: second: Occupation of offices according to the strength of the parties. For example, if you take a look at the ORF Act, how the board is ordered there, you can see that it is stated in § 7, that six members are ordered in the National Council, taking into account the strength conditions. Should we change that? Is there a reasonable alternative? [[Abg. Scheibner: Is there something about the National Bank Act or ÖIAG Act?]] In any case, we will encounter bitter resistance at the FPÖ when we abolish these ORF-proporz posts, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, in the "Press" it was to be read that the FPÖ is calling for another ORF curator instead of Friedhelm Frischenschlager, because the Liberal Forum is no longer in Parliament. Therefore, the FPÖ claims this ORF curator for itself. Mr Westenthaler, my previous speaker, is a pro-porz kid in pure culture, as far as the ORF is concerned, for he is there as a curator according to the proporz system. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who's to get him?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, why the term "proporz" – now I come to the FPÖ – has the chance to become the term of the year has another reason. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] What else does Bertelsmann say? – Bertelsmann silently enters. There is no further definition. This is a certain noble restraint. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which proportion does the Federal Chancellor mean?]] What's "Postenschacher" mean, Mr. Scheibner? Does that mean someone gets a job without a qualification? And somehow as a compensation, as a balance of power between the parties, does another person, possibly unqualified, get a post? – This is what the population understands as postage chess. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Who, ladies and gentlemen, is now in need of action? – This is the SPÖ, that is the ÖVP, and that is the FPÖ. Who's got to come in front of his own door? – The SPÖ, the ÖVP and the FPÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of propor is this that the climate wants to eliminate?]] I would also like to give you an example in this regard. I have here a blue-black personal pact, i.e. an example of proporz and party book economy, concluded between the FPÖ and the ÖVP. [[The speaker reads from a document.]] That's about under point 3: The FPÖ receives the National School Council President. [[Abg. Scheibner: When was it?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't listen! ...!]] – Qualification, suitability, performance are uninteresting. The main thing is, he's from the FPÖ! Or – I know that this is unpleasant for you, Mr Westenthaler: FPÖ shall be chaired by the Workers' Promotion Advisory Council. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say the date!]] – Qualification and performance are completely uninteresting. Main issue, FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Or: The members of the social assistance associations must be occupied by ÖVP and FPÖ persons. – Qualification, no topic, only party membership counts; and then point 13 continues in those districts in which FPÖ has become the most voting party to the FPÖ. Or, point 18: The Landtagsdirektor will be re-appointed. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! What do you think this document is signed by Proporz- und Partybuchwirtschaft? – For the ÖVP of Dr. Christof Zernatto – he is here anyway – and for the FPÖ of Dr. Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When is that?]] - That's how it looks! [[Aha! Call at the SPÖ.]] And then Mr Scheibner is here to speak, ladies and gentlemen, and says: It stinks in Austria! [[Abg. Scheibner: Your former Minister of Finance said that!]] Yes, what scent does this paper have, Mr Scheibner? [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] What scent does this Carinthian packaging paper have? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Party propaganda in the sense of post-achers that unqualified persons...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4046	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4062	This is the case. In this respect, SPÖ and ÖVP have work. But, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, take Get the broom to your hand and come in front of your own door!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4117	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4138	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I heard the statements of my previous speakers, I had to say: We haven't learned much for the future. [[Complementary of the Abg. Steibl.]] The fact that there has been this proportion in the past and perhaps there is still in one area or another cannot be disputed. This has to be said clearly here, otherwise there would be a conscious denial of political reality. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] Proporz – I want to explain this – has arisen from the distress of post-war times. Many know the legendary speech of Leopold Figl at Christmas 1945. The situation at that time was as follows: an almost powerless state, and the individual did not fulfil the most primitive wishes. But together – with the help of the social partners, stakeholders, as well as the parties – we succeeded in building up our Austria. The word "proporz", semantically examined, means: "Creating proportions", "to be in the right ratio", "to be well tuned". Proporz is available in many areas. In the national governments too, these proportional occupations of the posts of the members of the government are to be found. [[Abg. Böhacker: No, it's not true! In some!]] This word, however, has been very negatively occupied over time, is associated with abuse – and I think it is obsolete. We agree on this. Let's be honest: Is there not in practice this two-soul theory, both in the political landscape and in many fellow citizens? We're yelling at the pride, yes, we're rejecting it – of course! – but on the other hand, I experience this as a politician, as all of you probably do – every day, we accept requests for intervention, whether it be job-seeking, housing, economics or pensions. Or is that different with the liberals? - No, it won't be different with you either. [[Abg. Gaugg: The Scholten was also looking for a job!]] We politicians are guilty of it themselves, because we have awakened in the last decades the expectation that politics can handle everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] In this respect, we all have to get our noses together. Therefore, we should rather look to the future and redefine the role of the politician, but also of politics in general. Above all, we should consider whether we can put everything into law. There are already legal regulations in many areas. For example, there is an objective law in my federal state, the Burgenland, and there are principles for it, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Aueh!]] There is the Burgenland Employment Act. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Can you remember how the blacksmith resigned? Why did the blacksmith step back?]] There is no social fund – you are right! There is therefore already transparency in many areas. We also meant years ago with Wolfgang Schüssel at the federal level: "More Private – Less State!" [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I mean, but you didn't do anything!]] We have thus also spoken about the withdrawal of politics from the economy. There is also the Employment Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is now another agreement of this kind, in which our clubman Andreas Khol was responsible, namely the one with regard to post-contracting and transport in the Federal Office with anonymous aptitude tests and the establishment of independent control authorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But the SPÖ says that has been there for a long time!]] But let's be honest: Laws alone are not enough for that. There must be a rethinking in the minds of politicians and the population. There must be a change of consciousness. [[Abg. Oillingers: In Lower Austria, for example!]] So all of us should get out of the result of the 3rd. Learn October because we are measured not by our words but by our actions. Finally, I would like to give you a statement from Nietzsche for thought. Nietzsche said: Whoever gives to His, that would be the desire of justice and reach chaos. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4285	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4307	Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, the history of the Austrian proporze has also been a history of interfering. The first bulwark was shown after the suicide of Praschak, and since then there has been bulwark and the corresponding confession to abolish the proportion. We are constantly hearing that Proporz has long since ceased to exist! Interestingly, however, there has now been a boost in honesty. For example, if Commissioner Fischler, for example, says quite clearly and openly that there is a need to deal with political posts, and if the SP tip – a little bit more shattered, behind the velvet curtain – speaks of a balance of interests, they all mean the same, namely, the defence of the proportion. Now, if one hears from the liberals that whenever a liberal propor is taking place, so if one proportion has been replaced by another, suddenly objectivity and objectivity are the case, then in knowledge of the situation, knowing the history of the proportional occupations in Austria, one can only lose hope that those who sell themselves as a reform force in Austria really mean even the smallest approach in this direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is an old tradition in this regard in Austria, from CA to PSK – I do not want to talk about Strings and Ditz in the ÖIAG anymore – all these examples have already been mentioned. Today, the Minister has briefly said that it must be possible to send experts with political awareness in the event of the occupation of political posts. But, ladies and gentlemen, do I need party-politically colored chief doctors in party-political hospitals? Do you need red and black hospitals in which "red and black penicillin" are injected? Do you need red and black district school inspectors depending on which party in the country has the majority? – In these areas, I cannot see at all any reason for a occupation based on political criteria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I would like to address a point that has so rarely been mentioned to me in the debate. In the background of these pro-pore occupations there are career leaders, who will mainly rise over men's bandages. The fact that there is a lack of women in the top functions of the social partners is not a coincidence. And that in the case of party-political occupations the few women will no longer be appointed to the career leaders of the respective alliances, the problem of the absence of women in leadership positions is further aggravated. To you, gentlemen of the liberals, let me say: I know your recruitment patterns over striking connections! And that there are no women in these especially, we are probably all known. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] The federal states boast of being already very far in terms of objectivity. They also boast that they do not have the classic red-black proporz. Tirol, my home country, is also part of this. However, if you know that Proporz has been replaced by "monocolority", this does not give rise to any hope that executive posts in the public service will be assigned objective positions in administration and politics. District school inspectors, if they are uncomfortable, are rejected for overqualification so that one can press a close to a party. It will be the member of the ÖVP Board of Directors of the State Office, and either all other candidates will be discouraged in the run-up to the objective procedures to apply at all, because the matter has already been decided, or there are only more prepared answers to prepared questions at the ritual of the objective committee. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are not willing to accept this sham objectivation! If something doesn't change in this respect,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4353	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4369	... then the objectivity will be done by itself, because it is only a silver curtain in front of a rather dirty business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4399	I declare the current hour to end. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4422	I may announce the following: Mr Glawischnig and Mr Comrades requested that the written question 30/J by Mrs Glawischnig to Mr Bundeskanzler on the anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government and the closure of the Slovak nuclear power plant Bohunice be dealt with urgently before the entry into today's agenda. According to the relevant provisions within the meaning of § 93 GOG, the urgent request will be called at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4447	I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 3 and 4 and 7 and 8 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4474	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 7 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 119 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 112 minutes, Green 77 minutes. The plenary session of the National Council has to be held on this matter. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to these block times? - That's not the case. That is how it is decided by the plenary. 1. Point Selecting the Standing Committees
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4507	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. It is my intention to put in place the following permanent committees: Committee for Work and Social Affairs, External Policy Committee, Building Committee, Budget Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Rules of Procedure Committee, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Immunities Committee, Industrial Committee, Internal Affairs Committee, Justice Committee, Cultural Committee, National Defence Committee, Committee for Agriculture and Forestry, Human Rights Committee, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Court of Auditors, Committee on Sports, Environment, Information Committee, Incompatibility Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, Economic Committee, Committee for Science and Research. The National Council must also decide on the establishment of these committees. It is common for this vote to be carried out on all committees under one. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who advocate the establishment of the committees listed by me give a sign by lifting up the seats. – The establishment of these committees is unanimously decided. [[With the representatives, Federal Ministers Edlinger and Dr Fassleven have also raised their seats on the government bank.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (on the seats in the plenary) That happens there!]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I have to get used to this first! Sorry!]] According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. The members and substitute members will be on the parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members they belong to – in other words, in proportion! – distributed in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the committee appointed to the President. The members of the committees shall be deemed to be elected by this Declaration. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, the following members and substitute members were agreed for the Committees mentioned, whose distribution to the political groups was then calculated in accordance with the d’Hondt system: The Immunity Committee and the Incompatibilities Committee shall consist of 14 members and 14 replacement members each. Of these, five members and replacement members each belong to the SPÖ, four members and replacement members each to the FPÖ, four members and replacement members each to the ÖVP, one member and one replacement member to the Greens. – This is the first group of committees. The Building Committee, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Industrial Committee, the Cultural Committee, the Petitions Committee, the Sports Committee and the Scientific and Research Committee each have 20 members and replacement members. These are divided into the political groups as follows: seven members and substitute members of the SPÖ each, six on the FPÖ, six on the Liberal Party, six on the Austrian People's Party, one on each one on the Greens and one on the Greens. All other committees set up before are said to have 25 members and replacement members each. Of these, nine members and replacement members each belong to the SPÖ, seven members and replacement members each to the liberals, seven members and replacement members each to the ÖVP and two members and replacement members to the Greens. The National Council must also decide on this by decision. We therefore come to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this size of the committees and the related distribution of the Committee's seats to each of the political groups in order to give a sign of this. – That is unanimously decided. The names of the ladies and gentlemen, who are announced by the clubs for the individual committees as members or substitute members, will, as we have always done, be included in the Stenographical Protocol of today's session without the need for me to read the lists. [[See Annex.]] Thank you. The vote has ended. 2. Point First reading of motion 1/A by Mrs Herbert Scheibner and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Allowances of Official Officials
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4596	We'll get to the 2nd. The item on the agenda and the debate is about to take place. It is known that, if there is no special limit on speaking time, each speaker can speak for a maximum of 20 minutes, but each can speak within the blockage period of his group. If individual Members wish that a shorter speaking time be set at the clock for their own information, it is customary to comply with this request. In these so-called voluntary speaking times, however, the red light does not mean the compelling end of the speaking time, but rather an orientation on the fact that the voluntary speaking time has expired. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4627	Mr President. Of the ministers, none is present on the government bank, but I would like to welcome my colleagues to the Members' banks and just suggest, Mr President, that the votes, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, should be carried out in the future by the Chamber of Deputies and not on the government bank. As a vote this cannot be considered! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the referee law. I am very glad that a first reading of the Liberals' motion for a first reading is under way today, which has been initiated to deal with a truly unsustainable state. A few weeks ago, the Court of Auditors announced the adjustment factor, i.e. that percentage in the public sector, to which Members' contributions should be increased from next year onwards. It is 3.3 percent – a percentage that is probably unbearable in its level. Ladies and gentlemen! I really hope that we all agree on this. It is unbearable that politicians – no matter in which areas they are active – who share responsibility for the economic conditions, how the social community works, how the labour market develops, how the labour market is developing, this increase, on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors, but on a legal basis, the SPÖ and ÖVP here in the High House a few years ago – with great resistance to the liberals! – have decided to implement at a time when we will also discuss whether we will increase the pensioner 0.4 percent or perhaps 0.6 percent. So that means we're talking about whether a pensioner with an average pension of 10,000 s, who has worked for a lifetime to build this country, that we can live in prosperity and peace, now get 40 s more per month, or perhaps we're "biger"! – 60 S – gross! – and this at a time when the pensioners have just been taken away by savings packages and tax increases, not 10 or 20 s, but hundreds of schillings a month. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Gross!]] And then one should argue that for politicians, for example, with a salary of a national councillor of 100 000 S, there is not 40 or 60 S in increase as with pensioners, but more than 3,000 S per month. Ladies and gentlemen! I really hope – and believe it, because the discussions of recent times have shown it – that we all agree that this law, which was then adopted with the two-thirds majority of SPÖ and ÖVP here in the High House, is absolutely wrong, is contrary to the intentions of the reduction of privileges, is unfair and must now be corrected in the High House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am very happy about this – and this is also the first result of this election result of the 3rd round. October – that there is no longer this two-thirds majority, that it is no longer possible for two government parties – no matter what the government will look like in the future – to adopt such laws with two-thirds majority here in the House. It has now been forced – even on the basis of this request of the liberals – to hold talks and to try to find an agreement, a two-thirds clarification here in the House for a new regime of political relations and adjustments. And I do not want to say here from the speaker's point of view that I am very glad that all four parties agreed in the talks on a regulation which, as I believe, represents a reasonable compromise. We will present this proposal today as a four-party proposal, and it will be the basis of the Committee's deliberations together with our proposal, which we have initiated and which is currently under discussion. I assume and hope that at the next National Council meeting in December this law, which is currently in force and which would have given us such an increase, will be corrected and that in the future we will push for it and ensure that there are no more real wage increases for politicians. This is the compromise: in the future, we are only about adjusting the salaries of politicians with the inflation rate, at most at the same time as the inflation rate. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a very important concern, especially of the liberals, for us to introduce a measure, a lid, namely the adjustment of pensions. If the changes in pensions are below this inflation rate in the future, then politicians' salaries will only be increased by this low adjustment factor. I hope that this too – but I would be sorry if such laws were needed – will in the future contribute to the fact that it can no longer be the case that pensions for the generation so important to us will be increased by a rate below the inflation rate. A first step towards this is this four-party proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important freedom point was that the application did not immediately increase from 1. January, but at least half a year late, i.e. with 1. July next year. But – this should now be the occasion for further debates – there are a lot of other areas in the entire package of political privileges that are still unresolved. I would just like to address the following point: There was a reform of the references, and there was also a reform – which was an important concern of the liberals – of political pensions. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is incomprehensible that those who have already acquired rights here in the House, who are here long enough in the House and already have a right to a political board, then enter into this law: Those who already have the claim must not give up on it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really a persil for the use of political privileges. It should be the next step that we should at least make this option possible for all honourable Members and Members who have been serving for a long time, so that they too, in the sense of a reduction in privileges and transparency of references to these claims, can fail. [[Complaints with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4691	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. The watch is also set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4713	High house! I am one of those who do not believe to quote every article from newspapers. So I have a critical relationship when in the "standard" of 4. November 1999 Mr Seidl, under the title of "privileged driver without privileges", writes, among other things, the following – which is also a little in response to the comments made by my predecessor –: "The laws in this country are made by people who are not aware of their own value. For twenty years now, they have been forced into a privilege debate after another, they lead with a humility that is otherwise only appropriate in Domina studios, and then decide to abolish privileges." [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] "Only there have been no more privileges that could be abolished." - Quote. So in this totality I don't see that, but I think the good Conrad Seidl is right in the baseline. He may also have thought of the privileges of journalists when he meant that there were no more privileges. On the whole, I believe that this is a direction that makes the analysis very targeted and very useful. It is always true, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that this is brought here, above all from your side, as a means of politics. It is also necessary to take a little account of the many young Members who are here in the house. You also have some young Members who are there for the first time and who have to learn that they are not worth anything. Perhaps in your club you will do therapeutic exercises where you as a clubman always ask the question: Dear Virgin, what are you worth? – And they answer in the choir: Nothing, Mr Scheibner. Nothing, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are pensioners worth only 40 s a month, and politicians 3,000 – or what? That must not be true what he is talking about!]] Quit the 100 000 S! No one keeps you from depositing these 100 000 S into the FPÖ Social Fund! In fact, since Rosenstingl and Mentil, he has had a very important role, he has become a real social fund. Finally, you'll pay for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what's going on. They say: Instead of 183, there should be only more than 100 Members, and the government should only consist of seven members: five Westenthalers, two Scheibners, that is enough in the government. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That's about the concept you're bringing in here. This is a project of self-destruction, and ultimately of the whole policy! [[Abg. Scheibner: Like the SPÖ Carinthia!]] They will only benefit in the short term, because in the long term it is a project of self-destruction if you say to the voters: Please go to the constituency, but we tell you right now, you choose a loud, worthless Member, it's a spree, we don't need it anymore, the whole party democracy is just a collection of abcassiers, Bonzen and Privilegien Ritters, and at all away with the chamber system and everything! Only he, the Messiah, the blue Messiah, is the most economical of spasms, he really has a reference to performance thinking. – We should once add how much time the blue Messiah from Carinthia does not spend as part of his work as head of state of Carinthia, and put it in relation to what he deserves there. And that's where I say he'll have to pay an entry even if he enters the office of the head of state of Carinthia. He'll have to pay for admission! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Susanne Riess-Passer can then tear off the tickets there. This activity lies, for example, in her competence as managing director of the FPÖ: the admission tickets for the Haider tear off when he enters the office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer.]] – Acceptable glances I register from so many! Above all, I believe that there must be extremely interesting discussions in your group about the famous upper limit – even such a suffrage. This is the blue sandman strategy to scatter as much sand as possible into the eyes of voters. [[Abg. Scheibner: How is that in the "Future Workshop"?]] Only then are they ready to really choose blue. But in your ranks, I'm just telling you, there are two groups: There are those who raise public funds. These are those who may be at the 60 000/65 000 S limit. But let's think, for example, of Dr. Krüger, who just recently bought works of art – it was in the "Press", I think. Where is the upper limit of 60 000 S? Or do we think of Mr. Prinzhorn? Of course, it can give up all the money at all, I know that anyway, you're already looking so unforgiving. You can give up the whole salary, as the Ducats are constantly coming in because you're just a big businessman. Do you want a purely lobbyist parliament here, just a parliament of entrepreneurs? How many times have I asked here: When does Haider finally change § 18, which makes the extra-company pension possible? Why doesn't he change that? [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: If we are in the government, let's do that, colleague.]] Why does he not make any applications to change the tax privileges from which he benefits in this way? - He doesn't think about it! While Haider runs over a bridge somewhere in America, the value of its forests increases – value increases; You can start with something, Mr Prinzhorn, you know what value is growing – and that gives you an income. How do you get hold of this? You're the man of the little people, I know. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you're so hot! Have you won or lost the elections?]] Only billionaires can really understand little people, I'm already aware of that. I don't know how you get it psychologically, but that's the strategy you have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know, that's so double-bedded, so absurd! With Patrick Ortlieb's job – I have looked at this – a few data on the jobs is quite modest: Professional athletes, 1982 – 1999, advertising contracts. – I would like to see such an advertising contract from a professional sportsman! You know what's going on? – Your 60 000 S will snap up in the left nostril, in your case in the right nostril. That's absurd what you want to tell us! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or: Pumberger. Pumberger was already the subject of the discussions x-times here. By the way, I find it best that – that doesn't even belong right here – stands at Peter Westenthaler: Head of the newly installed communication office, Secretary-General. – It's called party secretary. So the term would have to be correct, so properly igitt-igitt. This is your true function that you have! – Also one of the "very poor" in there. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't think anything about the request?]] So leave your blue sand in your canister! Stop using this topic permanently for your interests! They ultimately damage the entire policy. They ultimately damage this country, and you ultimately damage all those who are inside here. And above all, you explain this to your juniors, who have just laughed at the criticism I have made to the first row here, and who are forcing you to share this absurd policy here against their own interests.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4877	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4898	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! According to Edlinger's Proporz- und Postenschacher confession, we have now heard the flammable confession of Cap's privilege rites. Mr Cap! Mr Edlinger! After these words, according to these confessions, it is even more clear that you have not only learned nothing from the results of the election, that you do not just want to continue as before, but now I am completely clear why you did. The most difficult electoral debacle in the history of the SPÖ came in October. Now I'm completely clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is amazing which distraction debate you are holding here by presenting yourself here as a poor church mouse, already careless, but in the argument very strongly trained as a central secretary. You forget that sometime before, you asked three questions – but you won't remember them anymore, because you were probably politically still different. But that politicians in this country earn ten to 15 times as much as the Austrian on average, than the Austrian average income, and that we have a million people in the country who live on the poverty line, you forget! That is why you are no longer elected by Austrian workers, because they do not understand and reject your policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Just these speeches, these confessions of privilege, of post office chess, and all of that, is the substance from which your electoral defeats are made. They have made themselves here and mean that many will consider whether they are worth what they are worth or whether they are nothing more worth. I can only say: The politicians of the FPÖ, especially the new ones, are very valuable to us – unlike you. I would like to say to you, Mr Cap, that The only one who's been guided is that he's not worth anything politically anymore, that's what you were personally. Your boss, Vrannitzky, once told you via radio, the cap is actually nothing more than you have been served as a central secretary. So you, who have flown yourself in high arches from the SPÖ's central secretariat, do not bother with others, and do not represent anything more than worth anything more! In relation to the referee law itself, to which you have not said anything at all – you have only polemized and not said a single sentence on the request for debate here – it must already be said that it was decided in 1997. The liberals voted against as the only one, and now it turns out that they have rightly voted against it. This references-up law for politicians, with which there has been a million more for the Federal Chancellor, with whom there have been 600 000 S more for the Vice-Chancellor, with whom there have been hundreds of thousands more for the President, we have at that time rejected for good reasons and have been rewarded by the elector. Today, two years later, it turns out, we have rightly rejected it because we have to repair it now. In reality, you have to admit to yourself that this reference law is completely unsuccessful and therefore no longer to be maintained. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because if it had been done in accordance with this referee law, then there would actually be an increase of 3.3 percent. Do you know what that means to return to your poverty vow? Do you know what 3.3 percent you probably want? – This would have meant an increase of 9 000 S in salary for the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor's salary would have increased from 251 000 to 260 000 S. 9 000 S monthly increase! Do you know what that means? – This is exactly the amount of an average pension of a woman, a pensioner in Austria, who receives no more than 9 000 s per month. That is disgraceful, that is to be rejected. That is why it was right for the liberals to respond immediately and make a request, so that we can now point to our great success, that these 3.3 percent do not come, that they have been prevented, and that we now have a solution with the adjustment to the inflation rate and the link to the pensions which is reasonable, which is a consensus that we can all represent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was also interesting when these 3.3 percent came to the public; it was very interesting. – Within the same day, we immediately demanded that the 3.3 percent do not come. – Interesting were the reactions from the SPÖ, who was surprised and said that one had to re-evaluate these 3.3 percent. It cannot be said that the order of magnitude is not plausible, that the Court of Auditors should be asked to review it again. SP-Federal Managing Director Rudas shot down the bird at all when he called the President of the Court of Auditors Fierce, when he announced this percentage as a "elector". He also said that this percentage was in no way comprehensible and there was no reason at all for this height. It is now clear that this height has voted in accordance with the Reference Act. That doesn't dispute anyone anymore. It is important to say, however, that people are simply not allowed to remove themselves from the population, not as far as the references are concerned. We will continue to discuss the level of political relations sceptically and very critically, and we will also act for lower and above all for honest relations. There is a very honest relationship, the most important reference to me, which is the relation to reality, the reference to the average income and the income of the Austrian population. If we do not lose this relation and come to the realization that this relationship has not been made for a long time, because the politicians have just removed themselves from the population, if you realize it, then we will probably make an even better application next time and perhaps finally come to a salary level that is higher than the average income of the population, but does not correspond to the ten or 15 times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4988	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, I usually see your boss as nothing but tieless. I do not suppose that he has now descended into the circle of those who are at risk of poverty, but perhaps this is a sign for him, since he preaches only again and again: "Go with the privileges!", but for himself all privileges, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Especially you from the FPÖ are those who personally use all privileges for themselves, where you can only. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: For example?]] . I now call you, for example, the former FPÖ-Obmann Götz, who went to the Constitutional Court and demanded that he receive double- and triple-pensions after we have decided here in the House that this type of double-pensions should be abolished. Your FPÖ-Obmann Götz, after all a predecessor of Dr. Haider and a good friend of Dr. Haider over a long time! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Do you have an example from the last 20 years, since 1986?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It's over for a long time!]] But I do not want to deal with this issue at this level. Three comments: Firstly, I am opposed to the accusation that the politicians would have addressed this provision, namely the adaptation of political relations to the Ist Lohn development. That's not right, ladies and gentlemen. The Commission, which has been set up here under the direction of the President of the Court of Auditors, has put forward the proposal to use the wage index and to increase income at intervals according to the wage index. What would it mean to have taken the wage index for this period? – This would mean an increase of 4.1 percent. No one wanted this, Mr Scheibner. No one wanted such a course. And I can make a second comment: All politicians – I do not know anyone who would have acted differently on Monday and Tuesday following the announcement of the percentage by the President of the Court of Auditors – have said: "No, I don't want to take such an increase for myself!" There is not a single Member of the House here who asked or said that he wanted this 3.3 percent, but everyone said that we must find a solution. Ladies and gentlemen! We were always of the opinion that pensioners must receive more than the inflation rate per year. We have been in favour of this since we shared responsibility for the increase in pensions here in the House. I call you the numbers: From 1986 to 1999, the inflation rate increased by 38 percent according to the consumer price index. Pensions rose by 48 percent on average, with an intention of 10 percent stronger. We have said that pensioners should also participate in the upward development of general living and not just get a pure inflation bill. The compensation recipients, i.e. those with the lowest pensions, have received a total pension increase of 80 percent in the years of the co-responsibility of the ÖVP in the government. Yes, this principle has been implemented by us, ladies and gentlemen, and FPÖ has not contributed to this. I would also like to make that very clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the years 1983 to 1986 – and this must be remembered – the development of pensions has not been designed to the extent that the minimum income earners and compensation recipients have been made available as after 1986. Next point. No one here in the House in 1997 criticised the decided method of adjustment. There have been other objections that have come back today. But the mode of adaptation – I read all the speeches through – did not question anyone two years ago. The opposite was the case! However, no one could predict that coincidences of statistics and, above all, subsequent revision of values could lead to such a result. No one could know in advance that the values of the national accounts will be revised in September 1999. If this revision had taken place a little later, about in September in November 1999, the increase by a few tenths of percentage points would have been reduced. I would like to say that on this point. We attach great importance to the fact that our incomes are developing as are those of all the others in the economy and a little less good than those of the pensioners. This is our basic attitude, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we are the compromise reached. It is not true that this compromise has been imposed on us by the FPÖ. On the contrary: We were those who, just as you – I do not wish to agree with the Freedom Party – were trying to bring about a solution here, which is now being submitted as an application and which provides for the political relations, the public relations... [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: After you have received further education from us!]] We don't need any further assistance from you, especially from you, because you are one of the privilege riders. You have no reason to interfere! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can't imagine you doing two occupations in full: the profession as a Member of Parliament and your profession as a doctor to the fullest extent and to all of your other activities. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: The "Entrepreneur Party" ÖVP! Where did you come from?]] - I just wanted to say that once. I'm not asking what he deserves! Everyone should work, and everyone should get paid for what he works. This is my line, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we are in favour of the fact that the annual increase in policy payments should in principle be based on the inflation rate, according to the consumer price index, and we do not believe that it is decided each year to be completely free to decide on how the original FPÖ application was planned and planned. We are not in favour of having every year without criteria, completely free, so decided out of the wrist how much more politicians should get. We are in favour of clear directives, clear criteria, and therefore we have not been able to accept your request either. Your request reads as follows: Each year, the federal law has to redefine what the politicians get in terms of income increase. That's what we think is wrong. The population should be aware of the criteria for increasing each year. We have set these criteria for pensioners and, I believe, we have them correctly defined for the politicians. That is why we are against your request, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. By the way, your request does not include the fact that the FPÖ will be in favour of a zero wage round in 2000, but it is within that federal law will determine how much the politicians should get. So it's completely left open! The motion contains something different than you have announced to the public, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that we have found a good, reasonable solution with the new proposal, which will certainly be dealt with in the House this year – it will be introduced today – that ensures that what we have now experienced in autumn 1999 can no longer happen. That is why we are in favour of this new solution, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5130	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5152	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have cooperated and cooperated in the 1997 refer ence reform and have also contributed to the outcome because it contained points which were very important to us, for example the re-regulation of political pensions. Mr Scheibner is right: Those who had already acquired the claim stay outside and were not allowed to opt. That's right. However, Mr Scheibner, I should like to remind you that not all those who could have voted for the new system have voted for it, including, if I remember correctly, Mr Stadler. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler said that the whole work of the time had failed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have the increases in salaries been all right?]] Go, please, Mr Westenthaler, let's stay a bit on the carpet. If you look at it, then you will see that the law at that time – now seen purely quantitatively – has 30 pages of printing, and we are now reforming two or three of them. In the pressure this may be six or seven and a half lines. So that the whole thing has failed, there can be no talk of it at all. However, at the time we were already very critical about the specific formula binding, the specific automatic, which was found and defined in § 3, which is now to be reformed. The fact that we were right with this criticism is now evident. We – I suppose, the majority of my club – but we have the current reform, the current innovation for very pragmatic reasons. The old regime must be reformed anyway. There is general consensus in this House. In the case of an annual decision-making, which we originally asked for, and I think the liberals would have come out in the coming years of this legislative period, according to human discretion, nothing other than what we now decide. This is for the simple reason that the federal budget position, the budgetary position of the local authorities in Austria as a whole would not allow a more generous regime at all. This means that, for this legislative period, this type of automatic adjustment, which is to pay the inflation rate at the maximum level of the ASVG-pensionist index, is a very pragmatic and reasonable solution. I think the current regulation is also technically better than the old one, Mr Feurstein. The old regulation has already failed technically. You'll have to admit that later. And not only because of the statistical problems that have occurred – you have described them completely correctly – but also because of the long times that have passed. The Court of Auditors reports in September of the year t1 the adjustment factor for t1 and refers to the wage developments of the year t-1. You could never have made this type of salary development clear to the population! Well, you could have made it clear that in a good economic year, politicians will get less, but that due to a previous good economic year in a bad economic year, you will increase the political salaries more than the salaries of the others, you could never have represented. So that's better now because the deadline is only a few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Why? This is quite similar in the case of wage increases!]] Yes, yes, I have only the time interval that was far too long in the old regulation, which is now better regulated. But there is already a wormhead drop in the current regulation: This work will not last longer than a legislative period. You only need to think for ten or twelve years and to consider what it means to decouple Members' salaries from income development in principle by only binding them to the inflation rate. Exceptionally, I agree – at least to a certain point – with Mr Cap, I agree with what he has said here today. I'm not of the opinion that politicians deserve nothing to earn. – This is probably the folk wisdom that is misleading in this context. In the foreseeable future, therefore, a reform will be necessary. Perhaps it is reasonable to include a term in the law. We should still discuss this in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5213	Next speaker is Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5238	Ladies and gentlemen! It's really very interesting how you want to get rid of SPÖ and ÖVP now from the law you've decided with two-thirds majority at the time. Mr. Feurstein says: Well, in fact, no one wanted this automatic valorization, no one wants this 3.3 percent. Everyone immediately assured that this 3 percent increase would not be possible at all. Mr Cap – we already know this from similar situations – starts great defence speeches, which end up in accusations to the Freedom Party, which have nothing to do with the matter at all. So Mr. Cap always tries to save the SPÖ from having to deal with what went wrong in this law. Unfortunately, Mr Cap is not here now, but I still say it: I really don't think his course is serious. First of all, one does not deal with the matter, but shoddyly pours mud over to the Freedom Party. In addition, I am indignant about the fact that while he finds the value of the policy's activity so valuable that they would be very worth 3.3 percent increase in their salary, the pensioners are obviously so little worth it that they are dispensed with 0.6 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] But go, Mrs. Silhavy, you are obviously worth the pensioners so much that you want to give them a base amount of 200 s, and then the pensioners should still be very grateful for it! But they wanted to give themselves a very high amount! - That's what it looks like. [[New calls from the Abg. Silhavy.]] I would like to say something to you – perhaps interested You do –: The rise of 3.3 percent for 183 Members is as much as the increase for 3 469 pensioners. You can see this imbalance of value! Mr. Cap is not here, but perhaps anyone can tell him – or I will tell him myself. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Feurstein! The problem we are facing today has not overshadowed us, quite the contrary! They claim that no one would have criticized the automatic increase. – That’s not true at all! We liberals have pointed this out and said: No, we don't want this automatic increase, it's not targeting! But now you want to wipe it all out because you've been caught because you have a bad conscience because you can't answer to the pensioners you've granted this ridiculous 0.6 percent increase that you wanted to bring a different solution to politicians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At that time, with a two-thirds majority over our concerns, I can only tell you once again: You should have noticed what the liberals indicated three years ago, the danger of such an automatic increase, at that time. We have in our ranks people who have foresaw this, but you are shortsighted and have thought: That's where we're going with the two-thirds majority over it! We identified the dangers at the time, and you should also remember this for the future: that you should better assess our arguments and act accordingly, ladies and gentlemen, too! Before you continue to defend your regime and speak to Mr Cap about the value of politicians, think of those you have refused to valorize for four years, namely the disabled! At SPÖ, there is no longer at all a speaker for the disabled, or at least none of which one assumes that he is really dealing with the interests of the disabled. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true!]] Where have you once stood for a valorization of the care allowance?- Oh, my God! This also concerns you, Mr Feurstein. Our last request for valorization you have smeared down by SPÖ and ÖVP! There, with the disabled, those who are really poor are those people who would need every big one, because these people have no income or only a minimum income, and these people have already deleted the pocket money in the last savings package. [[Abg. Silhavy: You say that against better knowledge!]] Mrs. Silhavy! You don't have to defend what you did here at all. The savings package has cost the disabled 4 billion schilling – and yet you refuse to valorize them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! This is a witness of poverty! There has once been a Member of Parliament, he was the justice officer of the ÖVP, Mr. Dr. Graff, who once said on a similar occasion: Pui devil! – I must also say that now, when I think that you as a politician are probably giving money to the disabled, but refuse the valorization of the disabled!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5323	I do not have any further comments in the course of this first reading. That is why I am closing the debate. I reject the proposal 1/A which we have just discussed to the Constitutional Committee. 3rd. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsund comrades concerning a federal law on the entry, residence and establishment of foreigners (Fremdengesetz 1997 – FrG), BGBl. No. 75/1997, as amended by BGBl. I No. 158/1998 4. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsand Comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 1997 – AsylumG), BGBl. I No. 76/1997, as amended by BGBl. I No. 41/1999
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5378	We come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda. These are further first readings. We are going into the debate. It shall begin with the submissions made by the applicant. Please, Mrs Stoisits.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5405	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Tolerance, antiracism, scapegoat policy, incitement, hatred, disunity, blame – these are the terms with which the Austrian population has been confronted in recent weeks and especially in recent days. At "last weeks" I mean the weeks of the election, so the weeks before the 3rd. October. It was a situation unique to me as the middle-generation family in terms of the intensity with which I have experienced it since I became actively involved in the political process, so to speak. If, in a way that has been so scarcely exceeded, in the form of election posters, brochures, but also in the form of statements by top political representatives of certain and individual parties, a climate has been created in this country, in which rejuvenation, incitement and exclusion has been and is the currency, then the Austrian National Council has the duty to act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not the call of the politicians themselves, ladies and gentlemen, which is asked in a situation like this, but an answer to the question: What is expected of politicians who are in charge, elected in mandates, of filling out representative posts, who have assumed responsibility with their position? – Action is expected to be committed to action. Ladies and gentlemen! You would have to be blind and deaf, you wouldn't see, you wouldn't hear what it is in the Austrian population as a whole – and I don't exclude anyone, I include everyone – on this issue of reports, whether written or postal, I say now as a Member of the Austrian Parliament, to notice and to criticise and in the past. These are serious signals and suggestions that we get from the population, and they are serious in the way that they actually have something to do with them. We Greens – which is the subject of this first reading today – have already made those proposals at the first National Council meeting, that is, already at the constituent meeting in certain areas – and some of them are still in the debate on the future agenda issues – which appear to us particularly brilliant, but which appear to us to be very discussed by the Legist and the Political, in order to give the National Council the opportunity to act, i.e. to take action. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you think that you do not have to present yourself here or not have to submit any requests: The opposition – the current opposition, the opposition to the current government – does so, because it is our self-conception that we are presenting proposals to you. That is why we have tabled an initiative proposal to amend the Asylum Act and an initiative proposal to amend the Xenophobia Act. My job in the first reading is to explain the relevant content to you, what I am doing here. Third-country security, right of residence during the asylum procedure, no rejection before the investigation of the security of persecution is carried out, apparently unfounded asylum applications or justified asylum applications – these are the points of the current asylum law, which in the meantime has shown quite clearly an overview of the weaknesses, but also the positive effects of the novelties of the Asylum Act, which was adopted in 1991. These weaknesses have prompted us to make concrete proposals in an own-initiative proposal. But it is not only about third-country security, right of residence during the asylum process, the complex asylum procedures at the border, but also about issues that really go through Mark and leg, such as asylum grounds in the case of gender persecution of women – rape, genital mutilation, sexual harassment – but also of men, as well as men in the field of sexual sphere, there are very general, orderly and thus also grounds for persecution that are not covered by the current asylum law. Nothing to subsume under the title "sex-specific persecution" – certainly also concerning men who are on the run because of their other sexual orientation – is covered by today's regulations. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] These are the points – I can tell you quite calmly, very objectively – that need to be changed – not by the Green Members, because we are not the specialists, we do not have that experience like the care organisations. We have allowed ourselves to include these experiences and to dress them in legislative proposals. But that is what is necessarily, in the asylum law, necessarily necessary to change. Another area: the Foreign Law. – An area that played an essential role in the election debate, because the tone was tightened in this respect, but also because the demands were so much driven to the top, in a negative way. For example, when it comes to family integration outside the quotas. We are not alone with this demand. I have also heard from Mrs Prammer with satisfaction that she is not happy with the policy of Minister Schlögl and his definition of family: What is a family if it does not have an Austrian passport? – Mother, father, children under the age of 14. It is apparently not happy with this definition – to try to describe its assessment now. It is an essential and central point of our request that another definition of the term "family" is appropriate – according to your own self-understanding. Especially the colleagues of the ÖVP are particularly required, because as holy as the family is to you, there is hardly anything. I do not mean that ironically now, I mean that very seriously, because I also respect the tradition in which you stand here and your commitment to the welfare of families. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you limit this to families with an Austrian passport, as if the well-being of a family had something to do with nationality or the color of the passport. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a central point of our own initiative. But we also consider the fact that the law no longer holds the family concept, for a hardness. Although it also includes the "human rights" – I say – on Grandma and Grandpa, it is generally not possible in Austria today to obtain a branch permit for a grandma or a grandpa of an still foreign family, because the declaration of commitment of their children is not sufficient. It is therefore ex-leg the cohabitation of a family in ascending and descending line excluded. These are very simple things that really have to inform everyone when we talk about family and family together, ladies and gentlemen. And these are our points, these are the points in our request. The question of the establishment of residence and therefore of integration, the stronger emotional, but also legal, and thus political involvement of migrants, foreigners in Austria and their possibility of former participation in the social process is also an important point. This would be understood by the Greens under integration policy. Today, however, although the law provides for the establishment of a residence, it does not, at all, correlate with what people are actually willing to integrate, integrate, correlate, to the extent necessary. This is also an essential point, ladies and gentlemen. You see, we are actually largely on the ground of reality. This is not an up-to-date idea of migration policy, which may be far-reaching in the future, but it is where those who are already here are most pressing about the shoe. None of these points have anything to do with future migration policy ideas, but it is about those who are there who are part of our society, who are in the work process or who are trying to get involved in social life. But the law builds up before them one obstacle after another, obstacles that cannot be ignored. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we expect from an objective discussion of these points, of a genuinely objective debate, and not a discussion which, as it were, is exhausted in appealing to itself. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today we have also decided to make a request for a climate of tolerance and mutual respect as the basis of democracy. But it is not the return to climate that concerns us, ladies and gentlemen, because we Greens have never left the climate of tolerance. We Greens are always on the foundations of democracy and democracy. It is not we who are polarizing, limiting, horrifying, scapegoating policies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That is why it is now just a curious idea for me to try to appeal to anyone after a campaign in which all this has been played and in which a racist threshold has already been exceeded, which was not at all imaginable for me until then in this form. – Yes, who should I appeal to? On the conscience of Members of the Liberals, ladies and gentlemen? – Your policy is only marked by inconsistency! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These are no longer questions of conscience, but these are questions of measures that are concrete. That is why our motion for a resolution is at the heart of concrete matters. It is important to call on the Federal Minister for Justice to consider and make concrete proposals to the National Council to inform us of what is possible instruments for him to do, as we have been told, but not just to us, but to all of you, members of religious communities, such as those Mosaic faiths, on the Salt Gate Bridge, so that the state cannot say again: Jessas, we're sorry, but it didn't disturb the public! Because it was evening and it didn't see so many people, there's no instruments for it. – This is such a deeply dissatisfied situation that it is our duty to consider what to do. That is why we are calling on the Federal Minister for Justice to act here as well. [[Abg. Scheibner: The ovaries, these were the people and liberals, the dissidents, pensioners beat down at rallys!]] But not only that: The Labour Chamber Election Act with its foreign-discriminatory points, also the ÖH election law, also the Xenophobia Act, which I have already explained, and also the Foreign Employment Act as a whole are materials that are now on the agenda. That is why we have included this in our motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen. It is only a policy of action that will change the climate in this country, which will guarantee respect for the fellow citizens, regardless of the passport, but not the appeal from a bank series to the other bank series and back – that is too little!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5478	Mrs Silhavy spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5499	Mr President. High house! Mrs Stoisits referred briefly to one of the requests that are now on the agenda – it is the request concerning the amendment of the Asylum Act. This application has several priorities. One priority is the procedure at the border, another the problem of the impact of asylum rights enforcement applications on close family members. I am sorry, Terezija, that you have now raised several points again, because you are right that the climate of tolerance, anti-racism has changed a lot in us. This is also evidenced by the fact that if you hold a rally for more tolerance, the "tolerance" shows that people who participate in this rally will be thrown with some shots – and be it eggs. I think tolerance can't always be required from one side, tolerance needs it from all sides. It is a sensitive issue, which is why I do not want to address the whole subject of foreigners here, but only the topic of asylum as such. For one thing is true: There are fears that, in part, I say, have been consciously startled, fears that some people perceive realistically, because they simply feel competitive pressure, because they are afraid of foreign cultures, and there are fears that are unexplainable; People who do not have any contact with foreigners at all because they live in areas where there is no problem of integration often have more fears than people working with foreigners than colleagues at the workplace. Therefore, I think we should deal with the whole matter a little more differentiated in the discussion, in order to address precisely those people who – whether explainable or unexplainable – have fears of fellow people who are not Austrian origin, these fears. One point in your proposal is, of course, a particular priority for me as a woman, namely the protection of women on the run. It has been silent for far too long, and it has been a taboo theme for far too long that gender-specific persecution has been applied and applied as a mostly military means against women – in fact, it has grown historically. I do not just want to refer to the point of rape. We discussed this chapter very thoroughly here in the high House in 1997 and then decided on the asylum law Novelle in 1997. In January 1998 we entered into force, with which we made relevant changes, in particular for female refugees, namely the asylum allowance for asylum seekers who were victims of rape or sexual abuse and who were exposed to such risks or who justified the asylum application with interventions in their sexual self-determination, and the consent in this case by persons of the same sex. These were two points that were exactly in this direction. Terezija, in your request you have also specifically addressed the question of circumcision and genital mutilation of women. I would remind you – I did not have the time to select the Stenographical Protocol – that we had an initiative by one of our Members, namely Mag. Posch, in the last legislative period, has tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to negotiate internationally in countries where this genital mutilation of women is widespread, a legal ban will be adopted. That was just one of the four points we requested in this motion for a resolution. I mean, that genital mutilation goes far beyond the asylum law, that this is a subject that needs to be dealt with and considered far beyond. I don't remember why you didn't vote for it at the time, maybe the request was too short for you, I don't know. As I said, I did not select the debate. I am convinced that we need to put in place a set of measures that are not just related to the situation we have here in Austria. I would like us to really address this sensitive issue so that we can all talk about it, but above all we have a climate of tolerance and a climate of broad consensus in Austria. I would also like to see the parties, who are always against foreigners and who are making a policy, as we have seen today at the previous item on the agenda, to play one group against the other – it is not so that everyone who refers to care money has no income, but the care money is just shifted to care and regardless of income, as we all know – do not do exactly the same in foreign policy. I know what I'm talking about, I'm Grazer: In Graz we have a relatively large – about "relatively large" one can discuss – share of black Africans, and these are already noticed by having a different skin color from most other people living in Graz. Consciously, I say, individual cases are repeatedly shown here in order to put a whole group of people, namely the black Africans living in Graz, in a criminal corner, in order to startle fears and to take action against these people. That is why I really wish for a differentiated discussion on this issue, because I know that integration policy can only work if there is a corresponding acceptance and no fears in the population. I hope that we can achieve constructive results in this sense – it is only the first reading of this request today – that we will be able to debate it even further in the Committee, in the sense of all Austrians, and in the sense of all asylum seekers, in the sense of all foreigners, who have a right to integration here in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5572	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5596	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits, you said something very correct, namely that you had to deal very objectively with the whole subject that you have been discussing. You have not fully complied with your purpose, because you have already returned to your water of emotion and the unjust accusations to us. We have always dealt with this subject objectively, and we have always focused on the actual conditions! And that's what's important and necessary for you to come up with good solutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Helene, be careful not to fly an egg now!]] Mr President. I believe that it is not all right for Green MEPs to sit here with flashlights, and I would ask you to call on the Group to stop this – or interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5642	I'd ask you to stop the flashing. It certainly irritates. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5668	I call for adjournment of the sitting, Mr President. It's not all right for you to sit here and blind the one talking with the flashlights.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5699	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please, continue with your explanations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5725	This is what you see in your attitude. They sit down, flash, and you really don't care what the impression that makes on the speaker. I have already asked the President to stop you, but you do not comply with this request. That's your way of dealing with dissidents. I think that's very bad. I'd like to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What would happen? You say if we did if we disturbed one of your speakers? – We would be the worst intolerances, we would be the fascists and anything possible. But you think you can do anything here in this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I will return to your requests. The Minister of the Interior has repeatedly noted that Austria has the highest share of foreigners in the EU. This, of course, leads to great tensions, too big problems. For example, I would like to mention this huge competition for displacement, which has emerged on the labour market. 10 percent of the unemployed are foreigners. Or: I refer to housing problems, especially in the agglomerations; or to the tensions that arise in the near-life area, which is because, for example, there are areas in Vienna where the proportion of foreigners is already 60 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely because Austria has such a high proportion of foreigners that integration measures are extremely important, because there can only be a peaceful co-existence between foreigners and foreigners if integration really works. We say again and again: Before allowing other foreigners to come to Austria, it is necessary to do better integration in Austria. However, this has not succeeded, and this has only recently admitted Mr Bundeskanzler's climate. Mr Klima said: We have not really solved the question of integration very well. You should not forget – he says – that there are many people who experience fears and threats in their daily lives. On the other hand, concrete measures must be developed. Mrs Stoisits! It has nothing to do with being self-indulgent, but it has to do with the fact that there are these fears, and these fears have to be faced, and you have to cut them off. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The measures that SPÖ and ÖVP have taken so far have not achieved with their programmes that foreigners and nationals live together without tension. This means that the most important point, integration, has not been reached. With your request, Mrs Stoisits, you really want to tighten the problem. Because you really want unhindered immigration. They want virtually no more possibilities for the Austrian state to limit immigration. If you're always talking about putting the family estate ahead of the new immigration, and pretending that no new immigrants would come into the country, then spread sand to the people's eyes. Of course, family members are also new immigrants, including those who are aggravating existing problems, especially youth unemployment, housing problems and school problems. You can't shut up with that! I do not understand your request, Mrs Stoisits. I think he's not responsible in the current situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, they also want athletes, artists, volunteers without a residence permit to come to Austria without taking account of the quota in order to carry out an acquisition. You write this clearly in your application. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You can work!]] We currently have over 250 000 unemployed people in Austria. Especially among the artists, there are many who do not have the opportunity to find employment, especially because there are many illegal artists – in the music sector and so on – who work in Austria. I think it's a false signal you put with it. They also want to give people the hope that they can work and live in Austria. But that's not true at all, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Austria is no longer the dream country in which everyone can realize. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You can work!]] [[Abg. Oils: You don't know the laws!]] This has nothing to do with wanting to incite, but you have to accept the actual conditions, and you simply don't do that. [[Abg. Oils: But you should know the laws! You're a judge!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return once again to the family members. You want an extension of the family estate, even for children over 14 years old, for Grandma and Grandpa, as you have said, without considering the problems for the Austrians, for example for our social system. [[Abg. Grade: Even if you repeat something that is false a hundred times, it won't be true!]] Mrs Stoisits! How do you imagine Grandma and Grandpa living in Austria with the big family if they have no income? How do you imagine that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Of course I see the legitimate wishes, but I see, at least at the moment, no way of fulfilling these wishes. [[Abg. Oils: You don't see anything at all!]] I think anyone who has a bit of a sense of reality must also come to this decision. Mrs Stoisits! 150,000 family members are waiting for a family estate. How do you want to integrate these 150,000 people meaningfully? How do you want to give them work, social support and housing? I would like to stress once again: Austria is not an immigration country! We don't have the capacity to do so. And even the classical immigration countries create conditions for those who are supposed to and can immigrate. Certain conditions, such as occupations, age groups, qualifications, which must be fulfilled in order to obtain an authorisation, are laid down to be allowed to live in this or that country. And we Austrians are not supposed to make any conditions at all?- Oh, my God! Are we supposed to record all those who just want to come to Austria sometime?- Oh, my God! I just can't do that. Austria has become the destination country number one of the tractors. That is, everyone believes that in Austria they really have all the possibilities. I just can't do that. – Unfortunately, I have to end God. Mrs Stoisits! They're buying new tensions. They purchase new conflicts without correcting the old conflicts and tensions. This is a policy that we simply cannot participate in.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5871	Next item is the report by Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5893	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In agreement with Mr Platter, who will speak as the second speaker of the ÖVP, I will confine myself to the part of the Foreign Law. He will then speak on the topic of asylum law. I am surprised that my two previous speakers, Mr Silhavy and Mr Partik-Pablé, have not brought something that is obvious to me into the debate, which I was mad at. At the address of the colleague Stoisits, perhaps also at your address, Mr Van der Bellen, as head of the Greens: If you speak of Truthfulness, when you speak of honesty, of materiality, then I expect this to happen only when it comes to requests made by the Greens. Yesterday in the afternoon, I looked at the reason for this request concerning the Foreign Law and read in the second paragraph of item 2 "No Discrimination by Law" – I quote literally: "In accordance with the provisions of the Security Police Act and the Administrative Procedure Law, identification is permitted only in certain situations. There must be concrete reasons set out in § 35 SPG. § 32 empowers the security officials to ask persons who are looking at them sometime after Austria to present their relevant documents, in particular the passport." [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Listen to me! I myself cooperated in the Security Police Act, and I was aware that this formulation could never and never have happened to the Internal Committee, let alone the Parliament. I took the Security Police Act to hand, and see: This formulation, which you even quote from the Security Police Act, is not in the Security Police Act at all! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't need to tell us!]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé, have you not registered this? Mrs. Silhavy, have you read about this? – This is the hardest way to discredit the legislator, but of course also the executive officials. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Well, well!]] – No, Mrs Stoisits, I do not want you to offer me the same thing in a loop, which we have decided here in Parliament, namely: "Persons to which one sees that they are eventually moved to Austria" is a passage from the Security Police Act. If that's your truthfulness, if that's your honesty, if that's your seriosity, then I say, we probably can't find each other on these issues in the matter. I strongly reject it on behalf of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How are we to be discredited by you in this form, but how are our security officers, the police, the gendarmerie officials, the cities, the countries, especially to be discredited by this sub-branch? I think that's incredible. This is inconceivable in a way that I have never seen before in a request and in its reasoning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know, of course, what you want to do with that. With this argument, you will go home in your meetings when you have background discussions with journalists. Their cheer these arguments. You say that you are literally quoting from Parliament's law. – But it's not inside, it's not inside, it's pure, pure invention, that's hypocrisy! And I am convinced that the Minister of the Interior would be sorry to join his officials in this form with this tone. I am convinced, Mrs Stoisits, that you have provided a bear service to yourself and these initiatives to the Foreign Law and the Asylum Law. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. The Austrian People's Party – we have carried this together with the SPÖ in recent years, together with Karl Schlögl – has undoubtedly found: Integration applies to us before we move! We have said this, and this will also be the policy of the next few years, whether we are in that position in which we are still in the provisional state, namely, as part of the government, or in the opposition. That's gonna be our position, we don't deviate from this position. Now I'm saying, If what Mr Stoisits brings to the Foreign Law is really a reality, that would be a task of the previous policy of the former Federal Government. I can't identify with that and especially in that area of family integration. We have deliberately introduced the quota, including with regard to family integration, so that there is order for it to be controlled so that immigration can be controlled. These are the criteria with which we have argued on this matter. That was the premise for us, because we want Austrians in this country to know that the State, the Republic of Austria, has laws that are reasonable, that are wise, that have been made with an eye, laws that we know are also enforceable, applicable to the benefit of the Austrians who live here, but also to the integration of those whom we ask to come to Austria. I believe that this is the better way forward than yours, Mrs Stoisits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What has particularly surprised me – you are not even afraid to write it in quite explicitly as well – is that you have an extension of family integration to relatives in ascending line up to the completion of the 21st century. I'm talking about a year of life. We know very well that, under Austrian law, we are still in Austria until the completion of the 19th century. Year of life – I hope I am properly informed – is underage. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Not long! It's still 19 years!]] If it were to go after the Greens, we would virtually in a very discreet way lead the minors up to 21 years of age. We didn't want to. I don't know what the background of your considerations is, I can't and don't want to put anything in your mind, but that's not all right. They also say: Extension of family integration to relatives in descending line. They talked about Grandma and Grandpa, about aunts, whoever. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: I never spoke of aunts! This is because of the truth!]] We know exactly that you think that immigration should bring together large families in an unreasonable way; an initiative through which de facto entire clans should come to Austria. – The EIA says yes to humanitarian considerations, the EIA says that it is a regulated, controlled, controllable immigration. We are talking about integration, but we are not saying about a family union in the form you propose. Not with us, Mrs. Stoisits! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last point. You say regarding the residence confirmation that you no longer want a ban on your own resources for maintenance, lack of health insurance, lack of local accommodation and so on, and all of this after three years. . We believe that what has been going on for five years should continue to apply for five years in the future. We are not ready to compromise on this, we are not ready to negotiate in this matter, and we will also argue these positions in the Committee on the Interior, to which matter will be allocated. Mrs Stoisits! Summary: I said you gave your case a bear service by quoting into your reasoning laws that are not in the law. Those who, in this way, bend the truthfulness of those who speak in this way to the colleagues of the high house: Come on, do, consider, talk about this subject, a burning current issue!, he will suffer shipwreck, because the truthfulness you demand from us I ask you all once again. Mr Van der Bellen! If you are looking for this truthfulness to be enforced in the passages that the Greens are bringing into Parliament, in the form I have argued.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6015	President. — The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6037	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in recent weeks and months, the subject of foreign citizens in Austria, the issues of migration, asylum and immigration have again become a decisive issue in this Republic. However, I believe that this issue also gives the opportunity to work together to find new ways and make every effort to significantly improve the integration of foreign citizens in Austria. As has already been said, we currently have 750 000 foreign citizens in Austria. The vast majority of these people have come to Austria because they have hoped to find better economic or social conditions in that country. I believe that Austria has carried out a very successful migration policy in recent years and decades and that Austria has taken a right course. Of course, changes are always necessary, of course one must rethink the practice of execution, and of course one must be aware that the existing laws have gaps and weaknesses that need to be resolved together. I am convinced that the principles developed jointly by this Federal Government will continue to have their meaning and validity in the future. These principles are: yes, a human asylum policy, yes, to the best possible integration of our foreign citizens, yes to family integration, but also a no to a new immigration that would overstep the labour market and the housing market. I believe that with these principles a Minister of the Interior does not implement the policy of the Freedom Party in this country, nor does he automatically reject all that comes from the green or other side of it from proposals and ideas. My aim is to find a policy of principles, of clear principles, a policy that is exclusively committed to people – and here I say very consciously – of the indigenous and immigrants. The attacks that have been directed against me in the last few weeks and months are allegations and attacks I share with all the other Ministers of the Interior of Europe. Whether the Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, whether the Conservative Minister of the Interior, whether the Minister of the Interior, who is not a political party, is confronted with similar attacks and similar conflicts. I am thinking only of the discussion that is currently taking place in the Federal Republic of Germany, that the German Minister of the Interior, who has a completely different socialization and origin than I am, is exposed to a similar domestic policy debate as I am, or to the conservative Swiss Minister of the Interior, which is also in a similar situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Immigration must be clearly separated from asylum policy, and all of us, including me, all too often make the mistake of mixing these issues and problems. For me, it is also important to say clearly that, for economic reasons, immigrants in our country have had their right in the past, that we have also brought many people very consciously into our country, that we are also committed to these people, and that we must do everything we can to integrate these people in the best possible way in the interests of social stability in this country. But I also say very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that this can only partly be the task of the Minister of the Interior, that all must be taken into account here, that this is the task of different ministries: The task of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Family Affairs. The federal government has an important task here, but it also has a task for the countries, cities and communities. I could read to you a whole list of things that the Ministry of the Interior has set out in recent years on activities for integration. We spend a three-digit million each year on integration measures, and I believe that this amount will be necessary in the future. I believe, however, that we all have a common obligation to take more initiatives here. I therefore strongly oppose the fact that foreign citizens in our country are defamated or excluded. I believe that it is necessary and important to overcome all the difficulties of understanding and all the conflicts that exist between foreign citizens and the Austrian population. It is our common task to detemoration and overcome the difficulties that exist. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But just as we must not negate fears, uncertainties, worries and, in part, hostile attitudes by Austrians and Austrians, but must deal very seriously with them. I am aware that we must do everything we can to combat xenophobia and racism. But I am also aware that there are real problems in the presence of a large number of foreign citizens and immigrants in our country. We must address these problems together. We must not put anyone in a corner, but our task is to solve these problems. But our task is also to stop making mistakes in the future, to link issues that have nothing to do with each other. It makes no sense to link the issue of crime and crime with immigration. It makes no sense to link the issue of the lack of housing exclusively with the issue of foreigners, and it also makes no sense to separate security for foreigners and foreigners. I believe that we should do everything we can to reject links and do everything we can to deal with these issues as they stand and how we are confronted with them. Ladies and gentlemen! As a Social Democrat, but also as Minister of the Interior, it is very important for me to avoid and stop any form of polarization and any form of exclusion from political dissidents. It must – this is our common commitment – not come to any further awakening of the mood in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I strongly oppose the call for "stop of alienation", but I also strongly oppose the call for open borders. And I think we should do everything we can to connect and not separate. That is why I invited the Ministry of the Interior for a first discussion next week to open an open debate on all the developments in this field; an open debate that discusses the weaknesses and strengths in the area of foreign rights in Austria, and which seeks to draw common consequences from it; a debate with all political parties, with all religious communities, with the most important institutions in that country, but also with officials who are assigned to the performance of the foreign sector in Austria and who are responsible for it here. I hope that this path, with a number of other measures that have been taken recently, will help overcome the division and polarization that has been created in our society in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In spite of this basic opinion, allow me also to say some specific things about the Greens' requests in this area which we are now present. I believe and acknowledge that we are very open to these requests. It would be a mistake to wipe out these requests and say that all that has been written here is a dangerous development, so we do not dispel. I offer you the open dialogue, together with the responsible officials of the Ministry of the Interior, on your proposals, on your concepts. However, I would also like to express my opinion on this because I believe that it is very important that we open up to each other. I also consider these proposals to be a fundamental preparedness for discussion of dangerous proposals, for proposals which, in combination, both in asylum and in foreign law, would in the future mean a new wave of immigration to Austria; a wave, as we had at the beginning of the 1990s, than more than 400 000 people in five years' time to Austria; and when we had very big problems in the integration we are still suffering today. I can't agree with the demand that a family quota should no longer exist in the future. I cannot identify myself with the requirement that the circle of family integration should be significantly expanded. I cannot say in solidarity that the declarations of commitment we have abolished in this country should be possible again, which has led to too much abuse, so we have abolished it. This has led to many dependencies that have also been used quite brutally. I cannot agree with your request that the controls on the legal residence of foreigners in Austria should be abolished. I cannot identify with your request that the ban on residence in the case of undeclared work should no longer be possible in the future. In general, the abolition of third-country security, as you call for, ladies and gentlemen, means that Austria will be the destination country, the number one of migration in Europe, means that Austria will in every form become the centre of asylum, but also immigration. A requirement as to how you put it, that it should be enough to say "Asyl" at the national border and thus get the right of residence in Austria, means that immigration is mixed with asylum policy, means that there is a magic word, namely "Asyl", and thus the gate to Austria is open. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the general composition of your demands, both for changes in the asylum law and in foreign law, would contribute to the resumption of almost limitless immigration in Austria. I believe that although we discuss these demands very openly, we should be aware that, in sum, these demands would lead to an open border, to an open border of which the Greens have repeatedly claimed and stressed that they do not want them.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6154	Next item is the report by Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6175	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I was very pleased, Mr Federal Minister, from the beginning of your remarks, because I had the impression that this really opened the way for a completely different level of discussion, and I would very much welcome it. You then, towards the end of your speech, have given a rejection to the Greens' requests with the concrete demands, but I still believe that there is a possibility of serious dialogue, because if we explain in detail how we understand it and what we think the consequence would be, then, I think, it is no longer so far apart. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, I acknowledge to you – and I know from my personal perception – that you have always checked individual cases. They have followed both alleged violations of law – such as rare cases of breach by the executive – and in individual cases have helped to alleviate the hardness of the law. However – and with this accusation we remain –: The laws are guided by one, I almost want to say, unholy spirit. They necessarily lead to situations that are no longer compatible with humanity and with the rule of law, such as when it comes to time limits. We know that people who have worked here for two decades are losing their entire existence here just because they've been suffocating some date. It's covered! This is unbearable in a rule of law, because it is unwarranted and disproportionate, and this has to be corrected as quickly as possible. Federal Minister! I believe that the mistake of thinking, which is indeed reflected in these laws, which, of course, are very much under the pressure of the Liberal Group, can be summarized under one denominator: They have tried to reduce foreigners to their job as workers, or, as writer Max Frisch has said, they have called for work, and people have come. However, the laws continue to apply to the labour force, and that is why the situations that we then point out are the same: with the children, with the spouses, with a family who is in need of care. With the greatest degree of self-evidentness, we would say in such cases: Well, it's really human, it's right if a family can take care of the sick grandfather, too. Or vice versa. How many Austrian parents, how many women could not pursue their professional activity if there were not a grandmother or a grandfather? – And exactly the same is what people who do not yet have Austrian citizenship want. Only when it came to this border in the head, illustrated by the foreign folk desire, did it come to the attitude: as the foreigners and there the domestics. And that's the mistake! 10 square meters per person. – It is assumed that there are foreigners’ apartments and domestic apartments. In practice, there is no such thing. What to do Do you live with a family in which foreigners and foreigners live? You can't set square meters for the Austrians. This necessarily leads either to extreme hardship or to the situation that officials who comply with the law are changing at the border of legality. And you know I know what I'm talking about. The need to treat immigration restrictively They do not encounter resistance in the Greens, but resistance will feel if you do not assume in principle that foreign people, workers who pay the same taxes and taxes, want nothing but Austrian parents, namely to have their children with them and a right to life planning. Do you know what the quota is for family members, especially the children? – You can’t start meaningful training. A child then starts because it must not come to Austria, somewhere in the country of origin a longer education. Yes, what are these parents supposed to do with it? If you had accepted it, would you, as a student, as a young man, have advocated going abroad if you would not have known at least when your children should be able to live up to it, if you had not at least had the certainty that this is about in conformity with the shoulder mines? – This is in itself something that is quite logical and that each and every one of us wanted to do so. Therefore, it is not the rule of law to abstain from the people who happen to have a different passport. Or: the right to work. I mean, most people, we all want to stand on our own feet. Thank God most women today also want to do so, and foreign women also want independence in the family association. On the one hand, it cannot be outraged that women's emancipation is often not very far-reaching, but on the other hand that women refuse the right to work. For eight years – eight years – this is the whole phase in which the children are small – women are not allowed to work. Or they work in the black market, and when they are caught, they hurry the punishment to lose existence here. That's too hard! And above all, it is not stated, because with the average income of a guest worker, it is usually necessary and also desirable that, for example, the wife who usually follows can earn it. That is what every Austrian woman would like to do, and we would also say that it is legitimate and legitimate. But for eight years she can't do that! What do you think is happening in these years? – misery and poverty. And with this, foreign people may only become outsiders in society, because then – what else should they do? – live in far too small, overly large apartments, because just in the back and in front the money is not enough. Therefore: Those who want to combat poverty must also grant family members the right to work – and, of course, democratic participation. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] All of us rightly demand that people, including those who have a non-EEA passport, assume obligations in this society. What is the side of the duties? – But also at least some rights: the right to choose the district authority, the right to choose at the municipal level. Too much demand? I think... [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Aha, you hear what answers are coming, and that clearly demasks you. People who pay taxes pay the charges, which also carry out any dirty work here, which would also provide for a liberal representative in the hospital if he or she were to be delivered there, should not even be allowed to vote at the municipal level. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm excited when you take care of the Austrians!]] And to the address about the Member of Parliament Kiss. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When do you take care of the Austrians? A million Austrians at the poverty line! When do you take care of these Austrians?]] Federal Minister! Polarization is very far-reaching, and there are many who keep these spheres apart. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Austrians are indifferent to you! You polarize!]] There are people in Austria who are called Kiss or Cap or Hojac or Petrovic and are very well integrated. They are quite well integrated, and I demand this same right for the others, who may not be called Kiss, Cap, Hojac or Petrovic. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I would like to say one more thing: There is a single request which really goes for completely open borders, and this is a request from the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, which is aimed at restricting the admission of seasonal kidneys; it is no longer insurmountable to the unemployed, not even in the form of pension insurance, particularly accident insurance and sickness insurance, and thus 20 percent cheaper for the employer. Well, I'd look at what's going on. That is what is actually being sought: the complete reduction of foreign people to cheap workers! If you do not want this, Minister of State, I believe that this dialogue with the Greens is overdue. And for my part, I can only tell you: We will lead him very, very seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: What do you write in your reasoning? Isn't that a form of loop?]] One more word to the Lord Member of Kiss: You said: That's great! ==References====External links== Year of life expanded! – Mr Kiss, Member of the Commission. [[Abg. Kiss: Why don't you answer my question?]] You may have the § 47 Residenzgesetz. If you want very precise quotations, you can have them, because I have these paragraphs, this body of law in front of me. It's about the EEA citizens, that's what we're talking about. There are beneficiary third-country nationals "Relatives in descending order until completion of the 21st century". ==References== If you or I should move your residence to another EEA country, we can take our children with you as eligible third-country nationals up to the age of 21. And the others who once were part of this country – I suppose your family is coming from such a country – that isn't? Those are very different people? That's where other rules of play apply? There may be no need for higher education, because they are already intended for sectors where there is no need for them. See, that's this line in the head that finally and urgently needs to be dismantled. The same rules of play should apply to those who have long had an Austrian passport, to the EEA citizens and to the others, at least in labour and social law. And one last thing, because you have also been so outraged by the turning in the Stoisits application under quotation marks. Mr Kiss! I ask you in every form: If it is so – and the Minister of State will be able to confirm this – that, although there is a requirement of identification – at any time and anywhere, in the subway, somewhere – for foreigners, but not for Austrians – even if you do not write something into the letters of the law, you can make a sound of something, and if someone on the street who looks like you or like me tells you, I am Austrian, and the authority has doubts about what is going on then? Licensing? I don't need a ID card. In this situation, there was an Upper Austrian head of state, whom you may not have forgotten completely, Mr Ratzenböck, who interpreted this exactly and said: Well, if you look at them that they're not bad, they have to prove themselves. Mr Kiss! That's exactly the criteria we don't want. Because the rule of law does not mean that it is important to know how dark the complexion is or what color the hair has, or if there is any other characteristic that might suggest that someone does not have the Austrian passport, but the rule of law means predictability for the authority and legal certainty for the person concerned. It's nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A last sentence to the address of the Liberal Group: I also invite the lawyer and judge Partik-Pablé, who has been blinded and irritated by the flashing of our red lamps: Look Take a look at the flattering and threatening letters entered in the office of the colleague Stoisits or with me, who have also reached our children in the course of your Vienna poster wave! With this you have once again opened locks, so that you have torn down dams, and thus you have made it a disappearing minority of people, who no longer call their name, very candid to leave out the lowest feelings. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Our poster stand was all demolded!]] The security authorities also know these letters. And if you may feel disturbed by the red light, read these letters and then I would be interested in what kind of appreciation [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Did you even throw eggs?]] You give it over these racist, sexist, horrendous derailments that you have politically responsible for because you provoke them by your posters, by your statements.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6346	The next speaker is Mr Schlögl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6367	Mrs Petrovic! I do not want to continue the dialogue which we both welcome in principle, exclusively here in Parliament; it seems to me that it is only important to clarify a few things that you have said, and not because I believe that you are argue ing, but because I believe that, when an opinion is expressed, one should clearly also present a subject matter. I would ask you to stop talking about case-times. These time limits are no longer available, and these time-limits have ended in 1995 and have been abolished. That was a misdevelopment, we have ended, and we have tried to clean up all the old cases as far as they are known. The Integration Advisory Board also has the possibility of resolving old cases arising from a failure to deal with case-by-case cases. For each of these time limits with which the Integration Advisory Council has been entrusted, there has also been a positive decision. There may be a few more isolated cases. As you yourself admit, we are willing to solve this. That is to say, there is no ban on staying on grounds of a failure of time. This development ended in 1995. Secondly, Mrs Petrovic! I do not know any provision in any law that regulates the size of a foreign citizen's home after square meters. My knowledge is expressly enshrined in the law that the principle exists that, as well as for nationals, a local housing standard must apply. Thirdly, Family merger. First of all, I would like to tell you that I continue to insist on the principle that the circle should not be extended, and that I also insist on the principle that family integration should be made over a quota. However, I would like to point out that, as Minister of the Interior, I am bound to do so, because § 18 of the right of foreigners – I am willing to discuss with you the change – clearly states that the Minister of the Interior has to present a quota in agreement with the federal states and that a numerical breach of such a proposal is permitted only with the consent of the country concerned. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That was your suggestion! That was your government's proposal!]] This has been the express wish of the federal states. We live in a federalist state, and that is why we must take this into account. In other words, I can only make these wishes, with which the federal states agree. To address the specific figures: Do you know how many old cases we have? – We have about 1,500 to 2,000 old cases, i.e. those in which applications for family integration were made before the 1st century. In 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and I assume that these old cases will certainly be resolved in the first half of 2000, i.e. in the coming weeks and months. This means that we only have the applications for family integration submitted in 1998 and 1999. In my knowledge, this is a number of around 8,000 to 10,000 cases that can still be solved. Since the new law makes it very clear that anyone legally immigrating with the quota also has the right to comply with his family within a certain period, i.e. within one and a half years, I assume that the problem of family integration will end at the latest with the implementation of the immigration rate for 2001. Finally, I share your criticism of the seasonal eggs. I would like to distinguish myself clearly from the demands of the Freedom Party because I think it is wrong. I believe that the situation of seasonal eggs also serves to exploit people, and that this also helps to bring about a stronger wage dumping in Austria. I therefore, together with the Minister for Social Affairs, made a very strong effort to reduce the number. She's still too high for me. We strive to achieve at least that those people who do not yet have access to the labour market in Austria will be included in the seasonal quota so that at least one can do something good from an evil. On the accusation concerning the reproach and threat letters and the harassment of their own children and the like: This fate, Mrs Petrovic, I also share with you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6405	As the next speaker, Mr Leikam has spoken. Your voluntary time limit is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that some 750 000 people live in Austria who do not have Austrian citizenship. Some of these foreign fellow citizens are well known, are very popular, are highly appreciated as an artist, as a sportsman, as a scientist in general, some of these foreign citizens spend their evening in Austria and some are brought to Austria by international companies who have settled in Austria to work for these companies. A large group of these 750 000 people have come to Austria because they wanted to secure themselves from military conflicts in their homelands, because they were subjected to persecution in their homelands for political, religious or racist reasons, and their lives were threatened. However, the vast majority of these people have come to our country because they believed they would find a better economic chance here. And these immigrants are above all the ones whose stay in our country always leads to discussions. They are the ones to which we, as social democrats, understand and make a policy of integration, a policy which aims at the social stability of our society, in particular, needs to be taken care of. Many of these people have been living among us for many years, many of these people have come to the world in our country, and they have contributed to the economic success of Austria, to the economic success of Austrian companies – and the President-in-Office will probably also confirm this to me, because he himself is a victim of this foreign labour force in Austrian companies – and they have often taken over tasks in our country that have become indispensable to our society and to our economy. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, we have often held discussions about novels in this House on the laws of foreigners. For example, in 1997, we had to discuss and discuss almost all the Greens' requests here. It has actually not added anything new to what is contained in the applications today. It is not time for me to address all the details of these applications now. The Federal Minister has already done so, and Mr Kiss, too, has already done so. But I would like to say in summary that, when you read these applications, you have to say clearly: If these applications were found to be a majority in the Austrian Parliament, this would mean that an overall revision of the Austrian alien laws would result in an unlimited immigration to our country, that there would be no more quotas, and there would be hardly any more means of review, whether a foreigner is legally or not legally present in our country. There would be no room for asylum seekers, for asylum seekers, even if they had entered the country illegally. – That, mine Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, it can't be! High house! I confirm what Mr Kiss said here for the ÖVP and for the SPÖ. In fact, it has been these two government parties that have shaped the foreign policy in this country in recent years. It was always clear in the debates here in the House that it was one too much of what we have put in here on paper, and the other – on the right side of this House – was far too little what was contained in these laws and was finally passed. I think that if you say that the path of the middle is probably the right one, you always have to add to the note that we have always tried not only to say: if we are in the middle, it is automatically the only right way, but that we have always tried to make changes, in addition to making improvements; Improvements mainly for those concerned, but also for those who have to implement these laws which have been in operation and have repeatedly said: Give us these clear legal directives and measures with which we must work, so that there is no ambiguity in a very sensitive area anyway. I mean, to be really clear here – ladies and gentlemen, who might see it differently –: Indeed, the two government parties need not be ashamed of their foreign policy in recent years! [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] We have made a good foreign policy, Mr Oillinger. Surely we do not need to be ashamed. If you don't want to believe that's the case, I'll call you a really unwarranted witness who has confirmed it. It was no other than Mr Blatter of the UNHCR, who has also found, in writing and in discussions here in the House, that Austrian foreign policy has had a model effect on the whole of Europe in recent years. However, he also added: You might even improve this. Of course, you can always improve something, as the Federal Minister has said clearly and clearly here now and in recent years. Of course, there can be improvements, and we will have to deal very seriously with your requests in the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why do you make such funny applications?]] Only it can't be what you've summarized here. You too will have to realize that much of what you demand here is totally unrealistic. But UNHCR – Mr Blatter – has confirmed it: Austria has made a good foreign policy in recent years. In recent years, the Minister of the Interior has always been a positive one – this has been acknowledged by Mr Petrovic – because not every single fate can be found in a law, nor in many other areas. But in such cases, the Minister was always willing to treat these individual fates accordingly and bring them to a positive conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen! It will also have to be like this in the future – otherwise I can't imagine well – that refugees who come to Austria and join the Geneva Convention will, of course, continue to be admitted to us and that integration will have to take place before new immigration. Let me also make the following point here because it is always said that integration in particular has not been taken seriously by this government. If 90,000 Bosnian refugees are integrated into this country within two and a half years, there are 75 000, jobs for them, places for school, if they also receive housing, then this is an integration, as we imagine it to be. [[Abg. Scheibner: Just not integrated!]] We don't need to be blamed here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Founded, but not integrated!]] We have made a good integration policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: They have established them, but not integrated them!]] However, it will also be possible to see the new migration in the next few years only in the closest context with the Austrian labour market. It will have to be done in the area of family integration, as the Minister has just said. A foreign policy according to all the Greens' requests according to the motto "May the borders be opened, let everyone who wants to come come in!" I guess it won't be possible. Such a policy would certainly not help those who are concerned, namely those who are concerned. If many came at the same time or much more than now – they wouldn't find a job, we didn't have a place here, they wouldn't get the apartment they might want. In such a case, the person concerned would not be helped. That is why I should like to say once again: We will be very serious about the Greens' requests in the Committee on the Interior. However, with regard to the current content, I cannot imagine the approval of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6522	Mr Westenthaler spoke next. Voluntary time limit: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6543	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Petrovic – no longer in the hall; also a kind of discussion culture to stand here, to divide firmly and then just leave the hall! – Mrs Petrovic, I am still telling you: I would really like you to stand out here once, only once and only half as committed, only half as strongly for the Austrians in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You've never been in there before!]] For those Austrians, especially those who in individual areas – especially in some districts in Vienna – feel that they are becoming foreigners in their own country, for Austrians who – just as you have in mind here – have the right to family, the right to education, the right to life planning and, above all, the unlimited right to home in Austria! [[Abg. Oellinger: You never showed up in the gallery!]] We support this, and the Freedom Party is committed to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Leikam, only one correction: At the end of your remarks, you informed us that 75 000 Bosnians were integrated into Austria. – Unfortunately, it is precisely the problem that they have not been integrated. In contrast to other countries such as Germany or France – no matter where you look – which after the Bosnia-Herzegovina managed to help a large part of the Bosnia-Herzegovina refugees to return home and do reconstruction work there, they did not succeed in this in Austria. Although 75 000 have remained here, they have simply been granted work permits and permanent residence permits. And what is the situation like today? – If we now look at the numbers of immigrants who are unemployed, we note that it is just the Bosnians who make up a large part of it. They have not been integrated, they have not been helped, they have not been integrated, they have simply been legitimated here, so to speak, and they have been getting more and more problems. This is not the kind of integration we imagine. That's just wrong, that's a wrong way, including you, Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I am glad – and I welcome it very much – that the Minister of the Interior has announced today that there will be a kind of round table – as he looks, round or square – that there will be at least one table where everyone will sit together, parties and representatives of interest. It was also one of the central demands of our Federal Party officer, the head of state Haider, to organize such a round table. That's why we're going to work very constructively on this and show that we have very good ideas and suggestions and that good ideas and thoughts have already developed in one discussion or another, so that you actually think. I also consider it a success of freedom of movement to be a serious concern, at last, of real integration measures and, in fact, of implementing the often quoted slogan "integration instead of new immigration". That would be necessary, and we should carry it accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only, Mr Kiss – and also Mr Interior Minister –: One simply cannot say "integration before new immigration" if one at the same time means integration and new immigration. It doesn't work, it can't work! I only call a number; and now I am correcting you, Minister of the Interior, because your Federal Party President and Chancellor, who sits next to you – you can ask him whether that is true – has told quite different figures, namely that in the country including the illegals, we do not have 750 000, but already have well over 1 million foreigners. Mr Bundeskanzler Klima has literally spoken of 1.1 million foreigners in Austria – he has said that! [[Abg. Kiss: Where did he say that?]] That was quoted in several newspapers. He said that in the Heurigen. Once he has been quoted in a German newspaper – if you remember –; sitting together with journalists, often the truth comes true when it happens in wine. That's what he said there, which has also caused international excitement. This was about loins and things like that, but he also called the number 1.1 million. I think one simply cannot say "integration and new immigration" in such a large number, but first of all one must implement the liberal idea after a immigration stop and put in place real integration measures. Only then can one give up the thought of a new migration. That's the point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now still to the greens – whose rows are already a bit shaky – and their lights. It has been said of respect and tolerance. But what you have not responded to is that respect and tolerance can also be required if your friends and colleagues go to the street and demonstrate against a vote result. Because that's what you forgot about what happened there. Thus the journalist Lacner writes in a report in the "profile" that was slandered and scoffed. Quote: "Don't throw eggs, you'll hit us too," the moderator throws in this demonstration. – I have to say: A significant sentence, this is very "tolerant"! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That was strong tobak!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the "tolerance" of the Greens! That's all "great"!]] Or if Mrs. Rossmann gets up at the demonstration and says: "The politicians of the great coalition should finally do something and not just talk stupid," I must say: Very "tolerant", "Great" choice of words! [[Abg. Scheibner: "Human" is that!]] Or if even the main moderator and actress Sandra Kreissler stands in front of the crowd and thinks that you have to decide whether to go to the side – and now I save myself any calls of order or anything – the A – point, point, point – or whether you don't want to do that, I have to say again: This is very "tolerant"! Very "tolerant", with a lot of respect! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Say what she said!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mrs. Brinek, I wonder – because you are sitting here: How did you actually feel when you, as a politician there, raised the word as an elected representative and when the eggs flew around your ears when you were bred when you were washed out? – That’s not tolerance, that’s violence! This is pure violence on the road against an election outcome that was not right for you, and we reject this violence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I can tell you very briefly – in order not to forget that – how you really feel when you stand up there. In contrast to Mrs. Brinek, Mrs. Ederer wrote her whole frustration from the soul, namely in the "Kurier" of 17th century. November. To this demonstration – with which you have solidified with the flashlights today – Mrs SPÖ City Councillor Ederer writes the following words. [[Calls and countercalls between the liberals and the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Listen to me! She writes: "It was a strange feeling to be screamed down and pewtered at a rally for tolerance and openness, even to become the object of ovaries. Abominable comments from the rally moderator did not make this impression any better. It was the mood that spread before the Austrian Parliament, none of the departure and the broad commonness of the ‘other Austria’... A hint of Weimar Republic was there at the parliamentary disaster." – That's what the Ober-Demonstrant and participant Brigitte Ederer tells you! [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Brinek) How was that, tomatoes or eggs?]] That's not what I understand by tolerance. That's why I'm glad you packed your lights again. Because this is unpleasant to you: It is unpleasant for you to give you the mirror and tell you what really happened at this demonstration. We reject that! We continue to say: Integration before new immigration. Nor do we address your polarizations, but we are essentially saying that such events should not be carried out under the cover of tolerance. If what I've now quoted is really the "other Austria", then I'm glad not to belong to it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I honestly say: I do not want to be part of it, but I am in favour of a responsible immigration policy, for a immigration policy also within the meaning of the Austrians, for a domestic right also of the Austrians, but not for your proposals, which would mean nothing but – and I am going to conform to the Minister of the Interior – a further flow of foreigners, which we simply cannot handle at the moment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6745	Mr Platter spoke next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6766	Minister! Mr President. High house! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell me my colleague Brinek didn't talk at all!]] I would now like to deal with the subject and also try to present factual arguments and to say that the requests made by the Greens are certainly not always understandable. But before I deal with the various points of the Greens' request for an amendment to the Asylum Act – because my colleague spoke about foreign law – I would like to say quite clearly that these proposals are not just an amendment to the Asylum Act, but rather a complete reversal of the current regulation. From this point of view, I would also like to look at these applications today. Now on the individual points of this request. The first point concerns the extension of third country security. The Asylum Act 1997 reworded third country security. It was then deliberately introduced the opposite approach. That's when it comes to whether the stranger in a third state was safe from persecution. We welcomed this regulation in its decision-making process, and we are still doing so today. However, the Greens' request also assumes that the third country security will only be valid if the third country has given the explicit consent that the asylum seekers can enter. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, are you aware of what that would mean? – This would mean that Austria would have to bear the main burden of asylum seekers because Austria is the first country to enter the European Union from the east. It can certainly not be that we have to bear the main burden of asylum seekers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at the increases – the increases we already have – in asylum applications. In September 1998 we had 13 805 applications, in September 1999 already 15 261 asylum applications, so within a year already a tremendous increase. If we were to comply with the rules we wanted by the Greens, we would be expected to have an additional increase in asylum applications. This is certainly not acceptable to our country. Secondly, the re-establishment of the criteria for a clear justification: The current asylum law contains a provision on apparently unfounded asylum applications, and the Greens are now proposing a formula for when an asylum application is deemed to be manifestly justified. According to the Greens' proposal, for example, a homosexual tendency should be considered as a criterion of persecution and that such a request should be considered as manifestly justified. – This would mean that if someone in a state is persecuted because of his homosexual inclination, this application must be automatically given the right and that we have these asylum seekers here in Austria. I can't be sure that's what I'm not representing. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Why not? But then you say why not!]] The third point concerns the extension of procedural provisions. The Greens' proposal is that a medical or psychological opinion should be sought in the event of doubts about the persecution. This proposal would mean a huge delay in the procedures and would also lead to an enormous cost increase. I reject that too. The next point is asylum at the border. The Greens demand a abolition of the possibility of rejection if the asylum seekers were already safe from persecution in another State. Even in the event of rejection in the already decisive case – if the asylum seekers have failed the refugee status – the Greens' proposal is that the rejection should be rejected and that entry should not be refused. These proposed measures would lead to a further increase in asylum applications. This is not acceptable from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fifth and last point concerns the Refugee Counsellors. Here, the Greens are leaving the support system for charitative organisations, which have carried out refugee advice so far and have undoubtedly done excellent work, and are demanding the appointment of their own refugee advisor. This is also a requirement that is not understandable to us. Coming to the end: The amendments requested by the Greens – I have already said this before – are a complete reversal of the current regulations. These changes would exorbitantly increase the number of asylum applications and would entail high additional costs. That is why, from my point of view, this proposal is not acceptable to our country, from the point of view of the EIA.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6831	Next item is the report by Mr Jung. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6852	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a note on the "Christmas lighting" of the Greens: You from the Greens try to use this action – quite your line – only to use methods of the road here in order to change an election outcome that does not bother you. These methods belong to the street, they do not belong to this house! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You won't succeed either, just as you were successful outside. If you look at Mrs Stoisits' proposals on the problem of tourism, you will see the true intention very quickly and you will be voting. He is particularly wise when he is assigned to the SPÖ series in this house. In fact, although external applications are directed against liberal positions, they are in fact aimed at achieving a split-up within the SPÖ. It is not for nothing that the whole group has also fled the hall. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Maybe that has something to do with you!]] Not for nothing, Mrs Colleague – the non-verbal situation was quite clear – you have given your whole speech in this direction. This is a legitimate means, I agree with you. Make It's so quiet! You won't have any problems with us. Simply said: They try to distinguish between Schlögl and One, between fundamentalists and Realos, between fellow marchers and those on which eggs may be thrown, within SPÖ. The new Greens – under the leadership of Professor Van der Bellen, who has now gone back and forth again, who is rising more and more of his professorism – are just trying to expand this crack and work hard on it. They see that with some SPÖ officials – and these are those who still or still have contact with the base – the insight is growing that a missing foreign policy has been pursued in recent years. Even Mr. Cap, who spoke earlier here, spoke in an interview about the mistakes in foreign policy about the 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. He said, however, that the Vranckky was guilty. – I am curious about what he will say when the current chancellor has gone, and all climate will then suddenly be to blame. Although the debt has been postponed, it has also been recognized. During his visit to the well-known market, the Minister of the Interior has been quite clearly guided by the situation in Vienna. I was there two hours before him on the same day and can imagine what people told him. He did not do a murderer's pit from his heart in the "Kurier" and in the "Krone" and asked Mrs. Col. Stoisits to look at the situation there. Not wrong! Other SPÖ officials, who, as said, have contact with the base, such as the district chief of Hernals, have found quite clear words for this. He expressly says in his criticism of the Integration Advisory Council – I quote –: There this organization offers me the organization of a festival so that people get used to each other. I'm gonna get on the feasts! The fund should send interpreters who translate the house rules to the new tenants. - Quote. Please, that's what a SPÖ official says! I don't want to hear what's going on in your ranks when this comes from a liberal official. Or another wise knowledge – I quote –: "From the election success of the FPÖ, we learn that people are concerned with the topic of foreigners." – You needed a long time to do this anyway! – "We certainly made many mistakes, so we have to make a lot different. The fun to incite people" – by the way, note the "happy" section! – "We cannot afford to know neither the German language nor the principles of our history." This statement comes from the old vice-president, city councillor, Vienna SPÖ chairman Mayr. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who said that?]] Mayr! The well-known Vienna functionalist, Wiener "Urgestein", from the Wiener SPÖ! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's incredible! Mayr was that!]] No, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! What you are proposing here is not a proposal for a solution to the problem of foreigners, nor an approach to better integration. At this point the SPÖ was written in the main book. It is not enough to give citizenship. That's not integration, that's naturalization! And it is in many areas in Vienna: that one believes it is done with the award of citizenship. Tolerable citizenship is also a matter of number in many respects. Your functionaries who work on the base have already recognized this very well. This is, as has been said, not a proposal for a solution to the integration of citizens, but the aim of the proposal is to increase the number of foreigners and thus increase the problem. I do not need to add specifically to the various points why the whole thing should be rejected here. One point, however, is particularly interesting. Even a punishment as a tug, if it fails with less than a year in prison, will no longer be a reason for any renunciation for the stay in Austria. – Your thinking has already lost that far! Overall, we do not have to expect any help from the European area as far as asylum law is concerned. Then: As it is called for by the solidarity of the other EU countries, you have all noted this from the example of the conference in Finland: We get good words at best, but we certainly don't get any support. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – that is, it is, I think, just one more lady from the Greens: We won't go your way. However, as I mentioned earlier, he also does not aim at us at all. They are clearly aimed at intensifying the tension in the population. You don't really want our consent, you just want to expand the crack in the SPÖ, as I have already noted in the beginning. They want to advance and benefit from the division at SPÖ – benefit from the Austrians! This is your policy that we do not support.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6925	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6947	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to deal with the Greens, which I would rather not like to do. But I can't quite understand the temperamental outbreak you've been showing here and elsewhere, and I can't understand it today. You inhaled your twin-organisation, the Liberal Forum. The two female club chairmen have cleaned you away. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, but how!]] What is your goal now? - Now it's gonna be difficult. There are the Social Democrats – I assume they will not be easy to really impress by you – and there is the ÖVP, from which I assume the same thing. And with the liberals, I know it's difficult. You can save yourself this artificial excitement in a sense. You got stuck at your borders, nothing will go on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Once again, I have to deal with the silly remark: What do we want from Austrians? There's been something like that right now, decades ago, because the people are called Cap and Petrovic and so on. It is completely overlooked – or it will be kept silent – that there is a great difference between immigration to Vienna around the turn of the century and immigration to Austria, namely: At that time, the citizens of a huge empire moved to the capital city and residence to stay there, in their homeland, in their capital. They have been citizens of this state! The problem of double loyalty has not been able to exist. It is precisely this problem that makes one person or another create today – if he is there, but it even refuses to want to become an Austrian citizen. So stop telling me again and again that's called a Petrovic and that's called a pillow and similar! It is something else in principle, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the short period of time available to me, be repeated, which seems so important to me: It is a double-beddedness, it is inconsistency and illogical, because a small minority, who understands it, wants to act very loud, wants the gates of the Republic to be wide open, almost everyone – at a certain time it was so – who wants to stop in and in Austria, but that one does not draw the consequence of giving him the opportunity to work. There are, I think, two ways. The path number one is: I am careful when granting the opportunity to come to Austria and stay here. Or there's the second possibility, I'll let everyone in. But if I choose the second way, I also have to let those who are inside work. But you say: There is a left layer that wishes you to be very openhearted, and so we all let in! And then there are the union and its connected people who say: But they can't work! - That's double-bedded. For everyone who is legal in the land who has to live with his family, who has to eat, who has to dress, who has to dwell, who doesn't want to be beg and must not become criminal, and he who doesn't want to go on the line and must work! We all know that. But we're pretending to be Hundreds of thousands of people are expected to be in the country and could be here and could be legal, but unfortunately they are not allowed to work. – This is a game with sunken cards, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not only detrimental to integration, it is conducive in certain areas of crime; and it is also not really nice for the budget of Mr Edlinger, who has been here today, if he has to be calculated by his professionals – and he does – that the loss of social security contributions and taxes for those people who have to work black because they have to live by anything, for those people who like to pay taxes and would also like to make social security contributions that would officially work, but it must not be that this loss of taxes and taxes in the year is between 10 and 30 billion schilling! That's a sum that's budget-relevant. I can't imagine that this double-bedded process, this step with double ground – you let people in, you're "human", but if they're here, you don't let them work; at the same time you don't have to pay double-digit billions! . to be supportive in this context. We have started with this, but we already hear it from other sides: We are in favour of integration, and only then can we talk about new immigration. Either we're restrictive at the border, or we're not, let the people in and let them work. But a little bit of one thing and a little bit of the other, it's not going, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7020	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendments Nos 7/A and 8/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. 5. Point First reading of the application 14/A of Deputies Karl Öllingerrund Comrades concerning a federal law with which the Workers' Chamber Act 1992, BGBl. No. 62/1991, as amended by BGBl. I No. 166/1998, Arbeitsverfassungsgesetz, BGBl. No. 22/1974 as amended by BGBl. I No. 69/1998, and the Higher Education Act 1998, BGBl. I No. 22/1998, amended
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7060	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7087	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It actually fits into the sequence after a lot has now been talked about new immigration and different positions regarding new immigration, foreign law and asylum law. All different positions were, however, largely common: integration should be an important part of our policy here in the house. Now you have the opportunity to make the nail sample. I would remind Mrs Partik-Pablé of what she said, namely: Only when integration works can there be a peaceful living together. – Ladies and gentlemen! What are you doing about the integration of migrant workers living here? What have you done in recent years in relation to their social rights? What have you done in recent years in relation to their political rights? – And with that I am on the subject: passive voting right to the Chamber of Workers, the Works Council and the High School. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we discussed this issue at first reading here in recent years? Four times? Five times? Six times? - That's probably going to happen. Again and again there was the tenor of almost all parties – with the exception of the Greens and the Liberals –: We can't do this to give "them" the passive right to vote fully! [[Abg. Conspicuously shakes the head in no way.]] Yes, my colleague! It was also to be heard by the speaker of the Socialist Group. [[Contradiction of the Abg. I don't know.]] He said: We must wait for what the European Court of Justice decides on this. It could be that this is not everybody's business. It could be that not all, due to the legal situation, have these claims to passive voting rights! - That's what I call a move. I repeat: push off! This is the mental removal of these colleagues. [[Abg. Dolinschek: If they have Austrian citizenship, they are entitled to vote!]] But we are not talking about the Austrian citizens, but we are talking about the migrant workers who live here in Austria. This is about – and about their passive right to vote for the Chamber of Workers, the election of the works council and also the election of high school students. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But why take out this sub-area? If you do, you have to call it everything!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Let's do it in Europe!]] It is about the political rights of these fellow Members. I could easily list the social rights which they are deprived of. But now we are dealing with the political rights which they will be deprived of. There is a European Social Charter, Mr Gaugg. You know that! There are the ILO Convention No. 87 and No. 98 already from the fifties, which actually commits Austria morally and legally, and which commits international law to introduce these provisions. There are the EU treaties, even though this should not fit colleagues in the Freedom Party, such as Regulation 1612 of 1968, which clearly opposes any discrimination against migrant workers. There are association agreements with Turkey, with other Eastern European countries and with African countries that provide for equality everywhere: the passive right to vote, the unlimited equal right in works councils, workers' chambers and, of course, in high school elections. Above all, I have to say, thank God, the European Commission, which does not care as much as the members of the government, especially those of the ÖVP, that Austria has consistently broken EU law for years. The Commission does not care, so the infringement procedure against the Republic of Austria has been initiated. But there is thanks to God also to officials in this Republic who do not care, for example, a district chief from Vorarlberg, who says: We must, of course, give them the right to vote passively in the Chamber of Labour!, and as an expert and legal official, we have voted in favour of granting them the right to vote passively, while the representatives of ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ – of course FPÖ, but also ÖVP and SPÖ – voted against. Ladies and gentlemen! You now have the opportunity, as I say again, to change your mind before the judgment of the European Court of Justice takes place. I'm sure that's what's going on. The infringement procedure is started – you can see that if you read the German Chancellor's request answer. It certainly comes to the European Commission's action before the European Court of Justice because Austria has been the only of 15 EU countries to ignore these rights completely! I would like to ignore what individual institutions of this Republic have said about this, for example the Chamber of Commerce, which, for example, means – I quote –: The granting of passive voting rights gives rise to fears that the decisions of the Works Council involve aspects of the interests of outside Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: In most European countries, there is no such thing! That's a joke! In twelve out of fifteen countries, a board of public law is not established at all!]] And here's what it says: This obligation on the Works Council to take account of business interests under the Labour Constitution Act could tend to be less effective by foreign works councils than by domestics. – End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen! What other than discrimination is such a statement? [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] What other than hidden racism is this statement? There are Members here who are also Chamber officials. I would like them to comment on those statements made by the Chamber of Commerce in the context of a review procedure! I would like you to explain why in the Chamber of Commerce the passive right to vote – thank God – has now been granted, but why the same Chamber of Commerce at the Chamber of Workers or the Works Council is opposed to this passive right to vote. I would have an explanation of what their contradiction, their contempt for these fellow Members and their disregard for the legal provisions you have to comply with, the orders are part, not only of international conventions, but also of Austrian law. I would like to explain why you do not respect the reason why you do not think of Austria's legal system – which is there because we have adopted the EU Treaties as Austrian law and the regulations are directly effective – to fulfil why you are thinking of ignoring this, Mr Maderthaner! They are very busy, but I would have liked to know what the Chamber of Commerce has to say. I would also have liked to hear from any other official, who will express himself here in the hall, why this is still being avoided. I would also like to ask colleagues, Mr Vergestnich, why, while he, as President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, is always in favour of these resolutions, he must always vote against them here in the House or perhaps not present in the Chamber – this could make the problem even more difficult, Mr Vergestnich. It should be said again: We are now in the first reading, but it is the last chance to save Austria an international Blamage and a conviction by the European Court of Justice when you deal with this law in the Committee on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7187	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7209	Mr President. High house! Mr Oellinger, I should like to remind you that a similar debate took place in 1998. If you think that we did not speak here, I ask you to read what the SPÖ delegates have said about this chapter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I'm holding it again: Social democracy, the ÖGB and the Chambers of Workers are in principle very interested – they are also interested – in the fact that passive voting rights also take place for foreign employees in our country. Social democracy, the Chambers of Workers and the ÖGB have already made the relevant decisions many years ago. I believe that this is one of the most important elements of integration. It can be heard from every party in this House that the integration of foreign colleagues who have been living and working in Austria for years is a very crucial factor. However, I am convinced that the passive right to vote in the labour constitution law is not the only issue when it comes to the need for action in connection with the labour constitution law. In my opinion, it is important for domestic and national workers, for example, to adapt information and participation rights to the new economic conditions, but also to facilitate the choice of works councils in small and medium-sized enterprises. The same applies to the improvement of the exemption limits and the protection of termination for replacement works councils. These are essential things from my point of view. Furthermore, I believe it is important, particularly in connection with the development we can see in the Chamber of Commerce, in the economy in general, to define also the participation of workers' representatives in the assignment of the employer to a particular section within the Chamber of Commerce. I am one of the things to be read in Germany recently in the "Trade Sheet", namely that the Works Council is the managers of change and gives workers security to act accordingly in this change for their rights. Mr Oellinger! However, we also need to talk about this – and I see a possibility in the Committee for this – that this passive right of election for foreign workers must be in line with the provisions of the alien laws in our country, the right of residence, but also the employment of foreigners. We do not agree with each other and we accept the provisions applicable to nationals, tel quel, then, I believe, we open that development door and gate, which shows itself in Germany, where foreign workers can be elected, but five minutes later the employer will be deprived of their mandate by other means. That is why I am in favour of the first step, in addition to the situation of passive voting rights, to establish a link to the right of employment, because this gives to colleagues who vote, I believe, security to act as works councils. I repeat: Experience in Germany has clearly shown that if this is not harmonised, development is not the best for colleagues who take over a mandate. In this context, however, I also think it is important to note – and this is also true of the debate we have held here in the House – that the integration of foreign colleagues in Austria cannot be done by playing against each other on a given occasion. Problems in the labour market – I am convinced of that – are not solved by saying: Foreigners are to blame! – Soon it will be the women, the older workers or the boys. This division of workers' groups is the wrong way to go. This creates only a climate of distrust, a climate of envy and uncertainty. The social security that we have in Austria, peace and justice have long been great; we should not let them be destroyed by the fact that one group is being played against the other. Social intolerance does not at all help us in this matter. What we need is a clear definition of what we mean by passive voting rights, both in the Chamber of Workers and in the works council elections, and the possibility of granting this right to foreign workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7285	Next item is the report by Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7333	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger believes that it would be in the Committee on Human Rights to clarify whether guest workers – these are guests – should have all those voting rights that the domestic workers possess, but which must live constantly with what is decided there. He believes that Austria is the only country in which this will not be accomplished. I would therefore like to know in which other 14 countries there is a compulsory membership of the Chambers of Workers. That would be a case for human rights. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website That would be the first subject we should talk about, because then the question of the right to vote might be resolved by itself. [[Abg. Oillinger: You are also an Austrian compulsory member! Forced member of the Republic!]] When it comes to membership of an association, you can do it, but if you maintain the compulsory membership systems with a cramp, you also have to live with the fact that there are different interests. The SPÖ implements the greatest duality in the question of passive voting rights for foreigners. She speaks in all the bodies, whether at the ÖGB Federal Congress or at the Vienna Chamber of Workers – that is correct and comprehensible –, constantly and everywhere about social integration or – how did Mr Vergestnitsch say? – social intolerance. What you are doing in recent years, Mr President, is a high degree of social intolerance to workers. You lost every backbone. They have also put before themselves the question of passive voting rights out of fear of decisions, so that in the end a complaint will decide whether the passive right to vote is permitted for foreigners or not. At the same time, however, I would like to know whether a compulsory recruitment of members corresponds to human rights, whether one can force an employee to belong to a community of interests today, although he may not want to belong to it, because the performance does not correspond to his ideas, since today – and that is the starting point – the Chambers of Workers in Austria are still often abused as a party political advance. You know this, Mr President, and that is the biggest accusation. On the Austrian labour market, we have relatively little of it if we have, in addition to the already candidate and candidate groups, a Moslem campaigning group, a Croatian campaigning group, a Serbian campaigning group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] For work problems, Mr Vergestnich, have nothing to do with party membership and origin, but are problems that arise in the operation, and there they should be solved. I am convinced that the elected mandates will be able to solve these problems as well. However, they do not give them the instruments they would need as works councils. They are not able to offer collective contracts to all Austrian workers. They allow there to be collective contracts with hourly wages of 62 S grossto, 60 hours per week – for guard staff – today, without any surcharges for night work, without any surcharges for weekend working time. Where are your achievements? They always focus on a particular group in order to distract them from the real and true problems. It would be more important to talk here and also within the ÖGB about what is essential, namely the protection of the workplace, the safeguarding of income and the safeguarding of working conditions. Where was that realized? They have been permanently and permanently dismantled in all areas in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] You drive in here a cuddly course, and you want to play the wild man outside. You let Mr Klima judge that you will not talk to him about pensions over the next four years. – That's gotten over, that sounds crazyly good, but doesn't bring anything to the employee at all. It would be more honest to stand inside here instead of turning things differently inside. Although you have carried out the "Action Fairness" here, first under Chancellor Vranitzky, then under climate – who it will be in the future, to which a package will be passed, we do not know yet. The tasks would be solved, one should not always take out just one margin group. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ask the foreign guest workers – they usually come from countries where you can only dream of Austrian working conditions. That is why there are many who are grateful for finding employment here. And it does not matter whether Mr Ollinger is making an application here for a decision on the passive right of foreigners to vote. She doesn't care. In my opinion, integration is also achieved through the adoption of citizenship. This too is a possibility of integration. If someone here feels comfortable with Austrian citizenship, then he will and will also be candidates for the works council elections. But it is not to be seen that a person is elected for a period of four years in the works council election or five years in the Chamber of Workers' Election, but may not be five years' stay. How can this be reconciled? This is only legal and not possible by law. Therefore, nothing has changed since the last debate on the question of passive voting rights. The problems of the workers are not the business, but the problems of Austrian workers are the so-called social partners today; the social partners who have long passed the interests of the members. [[Abg. Conspicuously, the wage negotiation of the metal, the tradesmen, is this over the interests?]] – They always take out only one group. I call you the guard staff and could also mention the textile-processing industry, the leather-processing industry, the doctors' staff, among the freelances. You slept in these areas. With you, only the metaller counts – of course, on your service vehicle is the sign of the metallers on it; that's the only thing you're interested in. This is a large group that you can look at, there you can play the wild man at business meetings. But essentially you overlook that we have over two million employees in Austria. [[New call for tender of the Abg. I don't know.]] – No, you don’t need to talk to me about trade, because first you agree to Sunday work, and then you demonstrate it. That's your dual nature! They also say: I am in favour of foreigners' passive right of election, of course, but you will vote against it. That's your attitude! So you have always done it so far, and you will also do so in the future, because you are afraid of your function within the ÖGB because the members in crowds run away because you no longer represent the interests of the employees.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7416	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7437	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the People's Party, I would like to say the following: In 1998 we reformed the Chamber of Workers' Election Act – that has already been said – and in § 21 we have defined exactly how the Chamber of Labour itself understands. This is important because, in your explanatory statement, you refer to the letter from the European Commission on clarification and self-definition. The Chamber of Labour understands itself as a body of public law – for example, lay judges are elected there – but suggestions that go towards collective treaty negotiations – that is also true in the direction of colleague Gaugg – must be addressed to the union, that is not the case of the AK. That's not the AK's business. These are two pairs of shoes. I would ask you not to mix this, because otherwise there are regulations that are difficult to unravel. Mr Oellinger! They said we were going to despise the workers. I would like to reject this and hope that you did not really mean it that way – even the Chamber of Commerce; I would also like to reject it for the Chamber of Commerce – and I would like to strike the bridge to the employment permit. [[Abg. Oillinger: Chamber of Commerce!]] I have also pointed out this dimension elsewhere in terms of integration. I would like to work very hard to ensure that the double quota, which is set both at the Ministry of the Interior and at the Ministry of Social Affairs, namely the employment permit and the residence permit, is put to an end, because this will make people play out. In fact, it is not comprehensible – if I have taken good care of all the factions of a sense here – that someone can be offered to come to the country, but then he is denied to take care of his outcome. For the first reading: I cannot join your request on behalf of the People's Party. Discussions, further development projects on integration, which go far beyond such applications and measures, are always open to us. Now to the next point, the High School Law – also from 1998, then reformed and opened to the EEA area, but not yet for all non-Austrian citizens who are studying in our country. That's progress. The last ÖH elections have been processed even after this mode. An evaluation, an evaluation, but still pending. I would also like to ask, in the context of a further development, an assessment of the last ÖH elections or the modes to which the respective Commissions, committees, levels and so on have been elected: Has this brought about an improvement that fulfils the purpose of integration? – No, not the fundamental rights, but the purpose to pursue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] When it comes to more integration, more justice, I also ask: How does it look in other bodies public law – the ÖH is also such a body – in the medical chamber, in the notary chamber and so on? – This is outraged, but the self-definition in the sense that the EU is also demanding of the ÖH is not yet complete. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's already exjudicated!]] So, of course, the reference to the other bodies is only conditionally possible. That means: In the ÖH, a group decides on a candidate for a manageable period to obtain a mandate on a electoral list, and when it comes to the exercise of it, one is no longer a student and then no longer represents the concerns of the students. So let's not make it so easy, and let's not talk about the most important integration measures – you didn't do that, but you put them as essential ones. If integration is serious, it must go beyond that. I assume it's serious to you and us. Therefore, after this first reading, let us enter into the debate and further develop where something has to be developed and establish cross-border links, where it is necessary when it comes to improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7510	The next speaker is Mr Niederweiser. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7531	Mr President. High house! Two sentences on the comments made by Mr Gaugg: There was nothing he would have talked about, but that was the speech of the last and the previous time. On the matter itself, the right to vote, Mr Gaugg did not say anything at all. I was surprised that the new President – but he will still learn – has not given a call to the matter. [[Abg. Gaugg: Mr. Oberlehrer!]] On the accused collective contract problems, on guard staff: I think you will have a very good source for this information, namely your FPÖ municipality in Innsbruck, which is the head of such a company. [[Abg. Gaugg: Yes, the collective agreement...! But you can't read that!]] Your FPÖ congregation probably told you how little he pays the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: No, that's not our FPÖ congregation!]] – It is already possible, colleague Riess, that at the moment this is not Your FPÖ municipality is because it is currently retired, but perhaps it will re-enter. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: The problem is, you're making yourself up there and you're just saying something wrong! That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you talking about Manzenreiter?]] It is not easy for you to see who is currently forming a political group in any body in Innsbruck and who is not. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Let's talk about the SPÖ Innsbruck.]] – This is also a possible topic. Let me begin with another honourable Member on the subject of the right to vote for high school, namely Mr Brauneder, who is no longer here. He took part in the discussion on the ÖH Act on 26 February. November 1998 asked the question – the legitimate question! –: Where is a difference between a young person who lives in Bratislava and wants to study in Vienna, and one who lives in Passau and wants to study in Linz? Why are there differences? [[Abg. Oillingers: Only the kilometers! Bratislava is closer to Vienna!]] . I would like to refer to this question, which Mr Brauneder asked at the time and from which I was able to read a certain sympathy for the same right to vote for everyone. Of course, you can show the difference there is at present: One is not EU citizens or EEA citizens and the other, and one can run for high school bodies in ÖH elections and the other cannot because they do not have a passive right to vote. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Incredible smart knowledge!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Knife charf closed!]] The question is: Is there an objective justification for this difference? In a rule of law in which there is a principle of equality from the Constitution, there must also be justification for different treatment of foreign citizens. We Social Democrats have been saying for a long time: There is no justification for this distinction! We stand for the passive right to vote for all students. This has been true of tradition – Mr Stippel has already tried to explain this before me –: Federal Minister Dr. Scholten has submitted a request to this effect, Federal Minister One has sent a government paper in this sense, and there is from 1997 a corresponding request from me, who has a passus similar to that of Mr Öllinger. It contains a constitutional provision because we believe that this is necessary in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me add four reasons why we are in favour of passive voting rights for all students. The first reason is: We do not want and should not create boundaries through a law that does not exist at the universities themselves. There you work together on a study plan, there you work together on development at the institute, but when it comes to being able to work as a student representative or student representative of this work, you make a difference. We as legislators make a difference, but in practice there is no difference. Second reason: We should take seriously what the students themselves say. If the Austrian University School – which it has expressed in many resolutions, and as much as I know, there are also decisions on which all political groups have voted – the passive right to vote for all students, then we should take it seriously, because there are not small children at work, but adults who know how to regulate their business. Third reason: We should not give up on the skills of foreign students easily and for no reason. They want to cooperate. They should also be able to candidate for the election, and they will then be elected. Whether they come from China, Canada or Germany, we should take advantage of their willingness to participate in the design and use of the university. This can only be of benefit to the university. Fourth reason: The universities are something international. Some studies have more and some fewer foreign students. This depends on different things, for example on the quality or reputation of a study or on whether it is cheaper or more expensive elsewhere, and on the same. For example, the Mozarteum in Salzburg, one of our parade art universities, has more foreign students than Austrian students because it has a good reputation, and it is obviously of benefit to the Mozarteum that there are many people from all over the world studying. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, as has already been said in one of the previous items, we should not separate, but link. In this we agree, I believe, with the vast majority of Austrians. Therefore, we should not distinguish between domestic and foreign students and foreign students in passive voting rights in high school and other students, but should also look for the binding and not the separating one. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a "house of tolerance". In this context, I would like to say: Our universities are home to teachers, researchers and students from all over the world, from their task and to many parts of their history. The researcher's mind knows no bounds. Let us remove these limits that still exist in the current law! This is my appeal as part of this first reading. I ask you to: Let us work together to find a solution in this matter! It will only do well for universities and living together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7695	Mr Gaugg has made a statement on an actual correction. Duration: 2 minutes. Comparison: alleged facts, actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7719	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The honourable Member who spoke before me claimed that I had made my comments on any information from farmers. The fact is that the basis of my information is the collective contract for guarding organs in the security sector, the following collective agreement, valid from 1 January. July 1999: Positions, operations, transport and separatist services: 68,10 S grossto, permanence service: 75,90 S – whether it is day, night or Sunday hours without regard to the circumstances. So that's a fact. It is sad that Members of the Socialist Group have just spoken about social policy, which has no idea.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7752	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7777	Mr President. High house! I would like to follow the comments made by Mr Niederwieser, who said that it would be good for universities to finally implement this proposal or, better to say, the content of this proposal – whether it is it is secondary. I would like to say to you: It would also do the universities and, in particular, and finally, would do good if the universities concerned were to be treated in the Scientific Committee in the future and not, as is now planned, in the Working and Social Committee. Likewise, in the past, when it came to the extension of the university election regarding the academies and the colleges, we had to discuss God in the Education Committee or the Teaching Committee instead of in the Scientific Committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would generally be good for universities to deal with university-related matters in that committee in which they are traded. In this case, this is not happening again. I don't know why it is, but we might talk about it today. In any case, one thing is clear: This committee is not being constituted for me to suffer. I wonder, Could this be because the ÖVP does not yet know who becomes a scientific speaker and therefore is on the brake again? I don't know, but I'm very strange. But we will certainly hear a few words in this regard. But now on the subject itself: I would like to clear up with some untruths or inaccuracies which are repeatedly presented in this context, especially by the SPÖ, but in the case of chambers or bodies of public law, which are rather within the sphere of influence of the ÖVP, by the ÖVP. It is said again and again in this matter: You want to do it, but! I mean, you first have to undress things a little bit to see what it's really about. In reality, this is a constitutional provision, in which a two-thirds majority is needed. Why does a constitutional change need to be made? – Because what the Greens have today as a proponent is not constitutional. That means that what you want from the Greens is not in itself based on the rule of law. [[Abg. Oils: But!]] I will now quote two articles to you. Mr President, you should take a look at these. Teaching and literature are largely on this point of view, if not clear. Take Article 3(1). 2 basic state law here! It says that public authorities must be constitutionally reserved for Austrian citizens – in conjunction with Article 48 para. 4 EC Treaty, where a derogation is provided. I have to clean up the mistake that we finally have to produce equivalent states with the other European EU foreign countries. In most EU Member States, there are no chambers or bodies of public law. [[Abg. Oillinger: But in Luxembourg there is a judgment!]] The judgment is not yet available, and the Greens have also tried to penetrate the Constitutional Court with the student group GRAS, but they have fallen to the nose in the final effect. There are no judgments yet. There are discussions in all areas. [[Abg. Oils: In the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg!]] There are essentially... – but I have only relatively little time, we can talk about it later. Read these exceptions! [[Abg. Oils: But!]] The fact that the students are involved in the execution is beyond doubt. This will also be confirmed by the Minister, who has now taken his seat in the Bank of Deputies. But there is a need for a constitutional provision because it does not otherwise move on the ground of Austrian national law. But the European provisions, as mentioned above, clearly state that they are derogations. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is really a discussion that passes at the heart of the debate and, in part, is also being held unfairly. You of the Social Democratic Party are constantly saying that you are in any case in favour, but that you are voting against it on a permanent basis. – I don't think that's honest. That's what you have to call it. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Then you will vote for it in the future too! In fact, it is a question of wanting to maintain one's constituency clients in these areas and therefore always talking differently outside than voting in here. The Greens are making a much more honest policy on this point. I'll tell you that. They are almost as honest as the liberals – but in this matter in a different direction. That is what I am expressly saying. The Greens unreservedly confess to represent the interests of foreigners in these interests. There they are relatively consistent. The Socialists, on the other hand, are not so consistent. We liberals say: It is a political question, a question of will! and we say: We don't want that! That is an honest position! That's what you're gonna have to confess to me. [[Abg. Oellinger: "Integration" you said!]] I'll tell you the following: They are, in fact, only concerned that all citizenship rights are used, but the obligations of citizenship are eroded. If there is only one left of citizenship, namely military duty, then we have reached where you want us: that there is no one who is interested in this Austrian state to the extent to which he should be interested. But we don't play with that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7896	Mr Deweiser asked for a personal response to Mr Gaugg's actual correction. According to my reading of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give the floor to this because we always do so in such a way that only someone who is included in the corrected case can make a personal response and not in the introduction of the actual correction. The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Speech time: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e7923	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, on the basis of your request, you have written in that the foreign workers who were recruited in the mid-60s were substantially involved in the reconstruction of Austria and other European countries and have contributed significantly to the fact that Austria became an economic miracle. However, you did not write in that these workers, of course, also enjoyed the Austrian labour law, that they had obtained the higher wages paid in Austria. Of course, they did not always agree with the minimum wage. They received collective wages in all sectors. However, these were still much higher than the wages in those countries from which these foreign workers came. They have acquired their knowledge from us, they have acquired a certain degree of know-how. They have built up a existence in their home country and have contributed to the upturn of the economy there or have remained in Austria and later, when they have applied for Austrian citizenship, have become Austrian citizens and now have the passive right to vote. Of course, they are now Austrian citizens, are eligible for election in works council elections and workers' chamber elections and, of course, they also have the passive right to vote in works council elections and workers' chamber elections, and they also sit in various specialist committees. I know some people. However, the collective agreement and labour law are very important not only for foreign workers but also for all workers. This ensures that wage proposals are not interrupted and working conditions are not undermined and protects the Austrians from a certain amount of dumping. This includes the access of foreign labour to the Austrian labour market – especially in times when the labour market situation is not particularly good, but rather bad. I would not support the extension of passive voting rights for workers' chamber elections and works council elections to all foreign workers, because I find this very problematic – EU citizens have passive voting rights – because the legislative period for workers' chamber elections takes five years, for works council elections four years, and the employment permit is usually granted for two years. This would be a circumvention of the Foreign Employment Act, and there would be a detour, namely that a person who applied for a Chamber of Workers' mandate or a works council mandate would then remain at stake on these mandates and would not receive an employment permit. [[Abg. Oillingers: There are not so many mandates at all!]] Either the Austrian State would then have to issue an employment permit for these foreign workers, or they would remain in the country for so long, and possibly they would not be broken out at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The concerns of the Austrians, Mr Oellinger, are quite different. They are that foreign workers' chamber councils and works councils would not accept the problems of Austrian workers on the Austrian labour market and in the farms, but would rather put their nationalist, religious conflicts from their homeland in the foreground of their representation of interests. [[Abg. Oils: I'm like that!]] That's it! It wouldn't be good if we offered a platform for that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: What about your conflict?]] We cannot provide a platform for Serbian, Croatian, Kurdish, Turkish or Muslim candidate groups to take part in the works council elections or in workers' chamber elections and then issue a campaigning group there. 2 years of employment permit, exemption certificate, Austrian citizenship: That would be far enough and beneficial for integration! I have never heard the argument that a works council or a board of workers, who is Austrian citizens, would solve the problems worse than a foreigner would be able to do. The supply of services, for example, at the Chamber of Labour, is open to all, including foreign workers, without restrictions – without restrictions! – available. [[Abg. Oillinger: He pays for it too!]] In particular, employment protection is disproportionately used there because foreign workers often work in firms where there are labour law problems, where, for example, wages are not paid out or redundancies are carried out without reason. Your request, Mr Oellinger, is not in the opinion of the vast majority of the Austrians, nor does I, nor that of my group. What we need is the representation of the interests of all employees in Austria to their satisfaction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8012	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. Second word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8034	Mr President. High house! I do not wish to disagree with Mr Gaugg's actual correction. It is part of the system, as we were used to from this side of the House in the last legislative period and as it is now taking place again – I ask the President to take a close look at these protocols; that is a request – that things are claimed which have not been said at all. Ladies and gentlemen! My accusation to Mr Gaugg was not that he does not know the collective agreement, but I have said that he will already know it because his friend, the Innsbruck councillor, has a company where such low wages he complains about are paid. [[Abg. Mr Riess-Passer: Mr Colleague! It's not part of the FPÖ!]] But he goes out here and makes an actual correction in the context of which he says I would have claimed he does not know the collective agreement. Please, there is a systematic turning of the word in the mouth, and there are systematically false claims here spread from this speaker's mouth, which you can't leave in space. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: You claim wrong things!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I stand here and want to say that quite clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a question of confusing people, and that is the point of incitement, as Mr Dolinschek has just done, by saying: There are the good Austrians, and there are the bad foreigners, and the two groups have very different interests! In fact, it's quite different: If you look into the farms – and I was in enough such establishments – you can see that they have the same problems, the same concerns. You shouldn't divide these people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8104	I do not have any further comments on this item on the agenda. I agree with Amendment No 14/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I would like to make the following comment: The question has been asked why the application is not allocated to the Scientific Committee, where the High School Act is also amended. – To this end, it must be said: The application refers to the Workers' Chamber Act, to the Labour Constitution Act and to the High School Act. The applicants requested the allocation to the Committee. We could theoretically assign it to the Scientific Committee, but then we would have to negotiate workers' chamber law and labour constitution law in the Science Committee. The other option is to assign it to the Committee, but with the disadvantage of having to negotiate high school issues in the Committee. Both are possible. It is common if there is no argument against following the applicant's request for assignment at first reading. That request is therefore allocated to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. 6. Point First reading of Mr MMag's motion for a resolution 15/A. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Protection of Animals (Federal Animal Protection Act – TschG)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8156	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. Here, too, the first applicant, Dr Petrovic, first spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8180	Mr President. High house! The Greens have submitted an application from the Austrian animal welfare movement as a request to the House and requested a first reading. The history is known – it is sad. In the spring of 1998 there was a very successful popular desire for animal welfare, which has also often been treated in Parliament, only: Until now, very little has come out. The basic idea of bringing animal welfare rights to the federal level was essentially shared by four political groups. On the part of the Austrian People's Party, there were concerns about this, and on the basis of the coalition agreement, the Social Democratic Party has remained in this position, so that animal welfare remains a national issue. I do not want to address in detail the individual sections of this very detailed legislative text, but it is important, as I have said, to highlight the following – there were also several preliminary drafts prepared by the Greens –: This draft stems from the Austrian animal welfare movement and has been examined several times by constitutional judges. It is therefore a draft that is very well thought out and carried and carried by all the essential Austrian animal welfare organisations, that is, hundreds of thousands of people. It is above all, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, a draft that tries to deal with the problem with a lot of sense of reality and with a lot of attention. I therefore believe that the arguments that have always been put forward are not at all sustainable. There was, on the one hand, the argument that the countries also needed some materials, especially since, after accession to the EU, national competence would be eroded anyway, and there would be other important materials, such as youth welfare, which are in good hands among the countries. This comparison is, of course, dramatic, because, of course, the standards for the protection of children and young people are also federal law where it is a question of preventing quails or neglecting them. Everything else – so that children or young people in the different federal states have a different level of protection – would be unimaginable. On the other hand, there is nothing to mention when it comes to funding for young people. This corresponds to an animal welfare promotion law, which the Greens have also proposed and which we believe is a legitimate task for the countries to take account of the very different circumstances as regards animal husbandry, especially agricultural animal husbandry. So this argument really doesn't draw. A second argument, which has always been put forward, is the objection that such a law would not make it possible to consider regional specificities. As far as free land is concerned, however, the weather and geographical conditions are very much affected. Of course! No reasonable person would oppose it! All of this is possible in a law that offers a wide scope for enforcement. But one thing has to be clear: The animals have been out of business in Austria since 1990. The Austrian legislator was progressive in Europe, when it was recognized that animals are sufferingable creatures and that full equality with lifeless things is not appropriate. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to subject the animals in the individual federal states, particularly as regards the rejection of quails of all kinds or any intervention such as the removal of horns in cattle and so on, to different regulations, because an animal does not feel otherwise, whether it is located in Burgenland, Lower Austria, Tyrol or Vorarlberg. It is factually justified to create a clear and clear level of protection. However, the promotion competence and all of this can, as has been said, remain with the countries. I have also heard no wish on the part of the federal states, which in principle support this concern with their liaison body. It seems that the countries do not speak the same language as the national leaders and the liaison body. I have never heard that this could not be a sensible regulation if, as I said, sufficient scope were created. In another argument, which I take very seriously, it has been said – and this is also partly seen by representatives of the Green Movement – that there could be a risk of reducing the already very good animal welfare laws in the countries by means of a federal law in their standards and implementing an adjustment downwards. Of course, we do not want that! That is why, I believe, it is very important for this draft to be in place. It is not an adjustment down, it is clearly about higher minimum standards. One last objection, which I do not make apply at all, was the argument that farmers would be threatened by it. To do this, I have to say: If there is an ally of farmers in Austria, it is the animal welfare movement. I would remind you that, in particular, it was the arguments of the animal protectionists – including the images that have gone through the media – who have made consumers more aware that animal protection is a value, that it is also important for product quality and that products produced in accordance with animal protection can, and must, achieve a higher price on the market. I believe that everyone from the animal welfare movement will be happy to take action to ensure that there are animal products from outdoor farming, and I would like to confirm that it is necessary to create transitional periods, to help farmers in the conversion and to remain flexible with the standards. That means: It should not now be prescribed a measure which, for example, is "run-off" or similar. We don't want that! We simply want to raise the standard together with the farmers as a whole, also in order to ensure the highest possible quality of production in Austria. – This is the very simple background of our request. I hope that in the near future I will have re-emphasized the essential counter-arguments from my point of view. I would be very pleased if the Austrian People's Party would reconsider its position on this point. I think you could also substantially lift the image of this House in public if we were to show: We have taken an important popular desire seriously, and we are willing to implement it here in this high House and give it legislative power.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8253	Can I assume that Mr Pilz's apologies for today's sitting are indisputable? - Good. [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He slept a little longer!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] The next speaker is Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8305	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, I am right in much of what you have just said. I also give you the right to say that the previous history of the creation of the present draft was a very long time in parliamentary political life. Many dedicated animal protectionists and experts have brought their knowledge into this application. You obviously – I do not want to say: deliberately – forget that the SPÖ also introduced a good draft which, I believe, presented a very good basis for discussion. The present draft, which you have submitted, is, I believe, good, right and suitable for modern animal welfare in Austria in the target project. Of course, some changes to the content are still to be discussed, and if you do so seriously, then this draft could, I believe, become quite a majority. I say,'may', because unfortunately there are still different opinions in this House about how to regulate animal welfare in Austria. As you know, Mrs Petrovic, our position is quite clear – as was the case in the past, and that will not change in the future – and it is based on the fact that an important basis for effective animal protection is a federal animal protection law. We have properly assessed the demand for animal welfare from the very beginning and recognized the need for it, and I think we have also fought very seriously and very committed to animal welfare in this House. I believe that some of the efforts have been quite worthwhile. A number of changes have been made in recent years. Above all, I would like to point out that a lot has also changed in the awareness of the population for animal welfare, as I believe, and it is clear that acceptance has increased. However, we have not yet reached a Federal Animal Protection Act, as we wish, although – I have to add it; Mrs Petrovic has also mentioned it – there is a broad front for the Federal Animal Protection Act in this House. I hope that's what's going on now, after the 3. October, it's still the case. Three parties – I assume that FPÖ remains in its former position – have voted in favour of this law. Only the ÖVP remains with its rigid attitude against this law. We know that we need the ÖVP for the state of this law, especially in the Federal Council, and therefore I would like to appeal to the representatives of the ÖVP in this regard. I think you know, too. Specialists from a wide range of areas – veterinarians who have experience with the articles-15a contracts in the federal states – repeatedly confirm that only a federal animal protection law is a guarantee for modern, flexible and uniform animal protection in Austria. We know, and I think the ÖVP knows that too. We now have extensive discussion documents – including this draft – and I could imagine that we could actually agree on content. Mrs Petrovic! Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not the central question for me at the moment, which draft for a Federal Animal Protection Act is the best and most meaningful and the most relevant in terms of implementation, but the central question was in the last legislative period and will also be now and in the future: Will the ÖVP maintain its firm attitude towards modern animal welfare in Austria and thus prevent such a naturally, or will there be movement and change in this regard in the ÖVP? – As Adenauer has already said: It can and can be done by anyone!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8350	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8371	Mr President. High house! I quote from the Minutes of January 1997: "Today's first reading on a federal animal welfare law is actually in the same state of debate, in which we last found ourselves in the Constitutional Subcommittee: Four groups of the House are obviously willing to adopt this Federal Animal Protection Act for good reasons and consider Article 15a of the Framework Agreements with the countries insufficient. The Austrian People's Party, on the other hand, believes that Article 15a framework agreements are sufficient and therefore a Federal Animal Protection Act is not necessary." – This has colleague Mag. This place is announced by the main office two and a half years ago. Where did we move in the meantime? – We have stepped in, we have ignored a popular animal welfare desire signed by 460 000 Austrians, and we have not moved further in this sector – although there is broad agreement here in this House. [[Call to the liberals: Don't be!]] The fact that this is being presented in this House in the context of a first reading today deserves attention. We welcome this – which has been established in advance – but at the same time ask ourselves why this is done at a first reading – as it were a little shameful. Why don't you make nails with heads? – The preliminary surveys are sufficient, we have just introduced substantial amendments to this draft law with our colleagues, Chief and Salzl, and are satisfied with the result. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Where is it?]] Very correct: Where is it, the subject? – From my point of view, at least two reasons should be mentioned for this. The first reason: Mrs Petrovic rightly mentioned that there is a draft law that has grown from below. It came from the animal welfare movement as part of the popular desire, and we have come in here. But it's not a green law, and if you paint it even more greener, Mrs Petrovic, this will only make it less consistent. If you judge it in content, you can see that there are very well-taught, reasonable people who have been involved in this draft on the basis of popular desire. – Let's get a little bit of your fingers off, let this topic open up a little bit, then maybe we'll get done faster. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I come to the second cause. Mrs Perfuss! Even if you are still so committed to this law: Why don't you just say A and not B? – The socialist side, I feel, does not take the matter as seriously as it does. In most of the laws of the last period, they have drawn the rulers from the ÖVP over the table: It can't be so difficult to reach consensus here on the basis of this or the former bill! We will hear from Mr Schwarzenberger whether he has changed, whether one has gone a step further. Maybe we'll move on to this law! For me, the SPÖ is the chief responsible for the fact that this law has come to a standstill! [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: Where were you...? Were you on vacation?]] Here, for example, Mr Kostelka, who has said this morning that there is only a proportion of the situation in Carinthia, but otherwise Austria is free of pride – very remarkable! – and who, as you probably will not know – or perhaps even mentioned – is the president of the Workers' Fishing Association in Austria! What has he done in this field of biodiversity protection? I personally know that Mr Kostelka cannot distinguish a string from a trout. He has taken over this function only because he is very exposed in the SPÖ – unsuspecting as it is so usual. Mr Kostelka! You have pushed aside the theme of the Cormorants! For you, the species protection at the water surface ceases! They have also contributed nothing to this law, which could substantially bring us forward. On behalf of the liberals, we call for the people's desire for animal welfare to be taken seriously at last, so that this issue will soon move a little further. Here again the request to the Greens is addressed to the Greens: Take a little back! You are not the author of this text of the law! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8439	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. . I should like to point out that we must interrupt the discussion of the agenda at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing at first reading a draft federal law on the protection of animals, which was adopted on 29 October. It was introduced by Mrs Petrovic in October 1999. It is in itself the same draft that was introduced in June. He was, as it were, almost taken over at the same time as text. In the first section of this bill, animal welfare is raised in the constitutional order, thus giving this legal matter a completely new position in the Austrian legal order. This would not be worrying in itself, however, one must already question the background. If, for example, the SPÖ and also the Greens have so far refused to raise the protection of the family, i.e. also those of children, in the constitutional rank, there is already a not entirely justified weighting of the issues. In the explanations it says – and that has made me stupid –: "As the constitutionally recognized co-creative dignity of all animals (co-creates) is inhabited (§ 2 para. 2), all animals also have a right to legal protection. A restriction of the scope of animal protection provisions on vertebrates or crustaceans, such as the current animal welfare laws of the Burgenland and Vorarlberg – that is, the countries – "is therefore not to be justified." But somewhere, ladies and gentlemen, a border has to be drawn. I know from the media a case of Carinthia, in which it is said that a gardener who has used a snail death has been reported because of animal torture. Yes, according to this definition or according to these explanations, can there be no further harm to a fly? In this regard, more detailed explanations are necessary. The present draft establishes the co-financing of animal welfare from public resources. If there are precepts which, for example, require conversions in the stable systems to animal-friendly behaviour or to the required animal-friendly attitude, then these measures should be supported by public means as well. On this point I may call an unwarranted witness. There has already been an application from the National Council to explain how the stable conditions should look. There are national laws in which the animal justice index is already included. On the basis of this information, the University of Soil Culture has prepared a study that would only cost 34 billion schillings for the conversion into cattle farming. This can simply not be achieved by farmers alone in current income conditions. There is also a new EU Bio Directive. This Directive requires free movement of goods. On the other hand, there was a uprising of the small organic farmers who all had to change their stables to free run. A compromise was therefore also reached, so that up to a stock of 15 cows, organic farmers can also be allowed to use an attachment device. In a runway stable, a milking position must be set up, and thus would be disproportionately high in comparison to the low yield of a small animal husbandry. We have 20 cattle in Austria on average, of which eight cows. In the case of eight cows, it is not possible to establish a milking position which would never be expected unless the additional costs resulting from it could be borne by public authorities. But I doubt in the given budget situation, which will also be in the house in the next few years, that this additional money will be raised. This draft, which I must mention already, and also towards the Freedom Party, is spoken differently at the farmers' assemblies than here, already brings a huge bureaucracy. § 34 states: "Farms in which agricultural animals are kept..." – that is, only in the case of farmed animals, not in the case of pet animals – "are to be checked by the Authority at regular intervals, at least once a year, regardless of the existence of a reasonable suspicion...." - Quote. I think that we need to be recognized in this respect, because that will also cost the authorities. There are about 180 000 animal farmers in Austria. If these 180 000 farms need to be reviewed and monitored at least once a year, including without suspicion of poor animal husbandry, then there will be considerable costs. I see this as rather a shock to the farms. Such short-term checks are not even required in the worker protection provisions of the farms as they would be prescribed here for agriculture. [[Abg. Aumayr: But the agricultural market in Austria can already do it?]] The agricultural market Austria controls 5 percent of farms, but not 100 percent every year at least once, as is proposed here. Very many animal husbandry regulations are only governed by regulations which are not yet in place in the draft. In the regulation – I take the original, otherwise you would say I have read it incorrectly – it is stated in § 12 para. 2 verbatim: "In the Regulation, in accordance with § 10 (Animal Regulation) has the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection" – listen now! – "in agreement with the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection." So not the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Ministry of Agriculture, but twice only the Federal Ministry for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection is responsible in this area! And here, Mrs Minister or now Mrs Prammer, we are children who have been burned because of the hormone accusation we have experienced last year. If, so to speak, you can create all the regulations yourself without the competence of another ministry, we are already very skeptical. It also refers to the transitional provisions in this draft, in accordance with § 51: All existing stables must be controlled and approved within one year of the adoption of this law. If the provisions are not complied with, the animal husbandry must be neglected to the farmer concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! The resulting conversion costs of 34 billion schilling, as determined by the opinion of the School of Soil Culture. It also says: In addition, each animal holding is subject to authorisation, with an opinion of the official veterinarian still to be obtained prior to authorisation. – We see this as very bureaucratic in your conception. Ladies and gentlemen! The income of the Austrian farmers consists of one third of the proceeds from plant production and two thirds from the proceeds from animal finishing. It is a matter of course: Of course, there are black sheep everywhere, you can't rule out that. But in general, the farmers treat their animals in good time, only in our small and medium-sized farms, where the farmers even have their own name for each animal. We farmers in Austria are committed to higher environmental protection, we are also committed to higher animal protection, but in a single market in Europe we are bound by borders. In the WTO negotiations, this must also be done with a negotiating object that countries that accept and implement high animal welfare standards will then not be exposed to world market prices with their products. Again, I would like to say: The Austrian farmers, apart from a few exceptions that exist everywhere, treat their animals very pleasantly and gentlely. They also know that economic success also depends on the performance of the animals. These will have better performance if well fed and maintained.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8505	I am now interrupting discussions on the first reading of the Federal Animal Protection Act. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Eva Glawischnigund comrades to the Federal Chancellor on anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government and closure of the Slovak nuclear power plant Bohunice (30/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8538	I call on Mrs Glavischnig's urgent question. The urgent request has been distributed in the meantime. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8660	On the grounds of the question, Mrs Glawischnig has the floor. § 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure requires a maximum speaking time of 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8682	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There are political tasks that are urgent and important or urgent or important. For example, government education is clearly important, but it is not urgent in the opinion of the government parties. Before the last meeting, the establishment of the seat system was urgent, but from my point of view it was not important. A really important and urgent matter or political question is the failure of the Federal Government's anti-atomic policy and the truly embarrassing balance of the last four weeks, the devastating EU compromise, the acceptance of a power plant, which is considered one of the most dangerous in the world, a series of truly indebted misdeeds and, ultimately, an ambassador who expressed in an unusual acuity a criticism of the nuclear policy of the Federal Government, which has still put the crown in the truest sense of the word. All of this is happening, although in September our memories were clearly refreshed, which is really the risk of a peaceful use of nuclear power, which it can mean. I'll remind you: Japan: the Tokaimura reprocessing plant, South Korea: Quiting radioactivity, Lovisa in Finland: an accident, by the way, the same type of twitter such as Mochovce from the fusion of East and West technologies, and today – I do not know who has already followed it –: The British Air Force jet, a Royal Air Force jet, is 800 metres away from a nuclear power plant near Edinburgh. In view of this drama, this importance and urgency, I ask myself, and I also ask the Chancellor: In recent weeks, how has there been a lack of any strategy in the absence of a single atomic line? And how is it really going to go on now? I do not think that the arguments against nuclear power have assumed that there are no more critical arguments. Nor do I think it is difficult to find allies because often the argument is that we are so isolated, we are there alone with our position, like a colorful dog in the European Union. I can't believe that. In the meantime, successes have been recorded in France and Germany. In Belgium, a former Greenpeace energy expert has become Energy Minister. I really wonder what's missing. I wonder if there is a lack of will or whether there is a lack of wealth. There's a strategy missing. You can see this when you read the APA messages from a single day: Veto threat to EU accession negotiations remains constant. – by Mrs Prammer. On the same day, Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima made the following statement: I'm not talking about a veto when I'm convinced there's convincing closing plans. It should not be surprising, then, that such statements as those of the Austrian Ambassador to Slovakia come: Different, contradictory public statements by Austrian government politicians weaken the Austrian position. Yes, the accusation of failure, the political failure can really be tied to a chronicle of scandal: In September, the Slovak government announced the extension of Bohunice's operating time, one of the most dangerous reactors in the world. We know that since there were concrete results from 1991 investigations, even after Austrians were there. What consequences did this have for our Federal Chancellor? Where was the call? Why didn't there be a meeting with Slovak Prime Minister Džurinda immediately? The Austrian population, I believe, has a right to the fact that there are finally concrete results in anti-atomic policy instead of just anti-atomic plans, announcements and contradictory beauty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ==References== The next step in the chronique scandale: this, from my point of view, devastating compromise within the Council Working Group on the so-called nuclear chapter, where Austria has swung from the definition of state-of-the-art safety standards to the dominant safety practice. I wonder, Where's it going? Is this going to the dominant security music in Ukraine or Russia? What is the end point of this course, that you go from the exit and go to safety standards to the dominant safety practice? Federal Chancellor! Then on: the vortex for the security report, which is now before me. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Since when?]] Since we announced a motion of censure against the Minister. Then we got him sent. How can a report be so mis-estimated? Why is it possible that such documents are not sent to the Commission in good time? Federal Chancellor! I ask you: How can you answer that? How can you also represent this towards a population that really has the right to get results in nuclear policy rather than just having to hear announcements? The next point: the whirl around the missing pickerl. The Slovak Nuclear Supervisory Authority, which is truly not an environmental organisation, but in itself a nuclear-friendly authority, has refused multi-annual approvals since 1995. Why does this have to reveal an environmental organisation Global 2000? Why is this not widely known to us? Why doesn't the Federal Chancellor inform? I ask you: Why was it not you who forwarded this information to the European Commission? Perhaps then the decision and acceptance would have been different. As a closing point in this chronicle scandale – I do not think otherwise – the confidential letter of the Austrian ambassador. How far must an ambassador really come that she argues in the way she says she does not receive critical documents on request that Austrian nuclear policy is purely medial, politically motivated!Unknown term type: "%s".? How many cancellations must an ambassador have received in order to write such a sharp letter?, I ask you, Federal Chancellor. What are the consequences of this very sharp letter from the Austrian Ambassador to Slovakia? Again: The Austrian population has a right to concrete results instead of having to take on further dyeing. The last point: The visit by Mrs Prammer to Slovakia tomorrow cancelled or postponed for lack of time. Federal Chancellor! I ask you: Why is it not possible for you to put your own weight as chancellors of this government into the bowl and finally not only talk about leaving, but also make a concrete exit offer and make it really personal on-site? The Austrian population has a right to results and not only to beautify. For us, the consequences are very clear. It was very disappointing that just after the 3. October, when the new way of governing was announced, it was also said that Parliament will have an up-to-date role, that the Federal Government has continued to do the same and that in recent weeks this missing line, this lack of consequence, this lack of wealth and these innumerable miscarriage have found its continuation. This is not in the interest of the Austrian population and not in the interest of the security interests of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8727	The Federal Chancellor is speaking. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. That's a target. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8749	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig! I was a little surprised at your attacks on the two government parties. I'd like to tell you a short story: Today, a journalist asked me what I thought would be the unword of the year 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Climate change!]] I asked him, and what did he say? – Exploratory talks, Mr Pilz. Exploratory talks! And I have the pleasure of conducting these exploratory talks. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite initial scepticism, I note that these exploratory talks, which I hold with all the parties here in the National Council in a very serious form, make sense; Make sense because we, whom we are called to make politics in Austria, have the opportunity, instead of always just putting one another in the foreground, as it seems, actually to discuss those ideas, those positions and positions that we have for our country, and to find a lot for one another for our country. One thing that is quite clear is the clear position of all the parties here in Parliament on the question of nuclear energy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's not true!]] All parties here in Parliament believe that nuclear energy is not a safe, sustainable form of energy. In this respect there is broad consensus in our country, broad consensus, which also helps us to achieve the Austrian vision of a nuclear-free central Europe step by step with political persuasion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where, ladies and gentlemen, there are also differences, the question is: How do we deal with those states that have nuclear power plants? I think we should remember that a small country like Austria must always be interested in the fact that there is no discrimination between individual states, that we do not suddenly treat smaller countries more badly than large countries, as we do in the style of colonial power, which no one would believe in us, or that we treat countries that are already members of the European Union differently and more friendly than those that want to join the European Union. I therefore believe it is crucial that Austria in particular pursues a non-discrimination-free policy on nuclear power issues. What does that mean? . This means that we all have to work together to ensure that, for example, for all countries in this Europe, Euratom sets as high a safety standard as possible, according to the state of the art, for nuclear power plants. And that is what we want to do, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, however, this means – I say very clearly and clearly – that we want the candidate countries to expect and that those nuclear power plants they operate must not be insecure nuclear power plants. I can therefore tell you that this Austrian Federal Government is very clearly and clearly holding fast to its anti-atomic policy as an interim government, to which it maintains an anti-atomic plan, and it is certain that there will be no accession of a country with unsafe nuclear power plants to the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know from the media the debates that we have to have with these countries, also with Slovakia in terms of Bohunice V1. You know that we believe that Bohunice V1 is a reactor that is not retrofitable, a reactor that does not meet safety standards. I would be very pleased if today's debate would be a sign of the closeness of the Austrian National Council, the representative of the Austrian population, in the direction that we expect Slovakia to have clear signals and steps towards favouring the already established closing date for Bohunice, because Austria will not otherwise accept Slovakia's accession, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have always said... – Mr colleague, in very good discussions – including with your party – we have agreed that we listen, and I ask you: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why don't you stick to your action plan if you have decided it yourself?]] Listen to me! You then have the opportunity, I assume, to present your opinion in detail in your speech. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: May I still call?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something very clearly and clearly – also in the light of what I have said now: It is not my way to threaten, but those States that have nuclear power plants and want to join the European Union should certainly know that Austria cannot and will not be able to give unreservedly consent to the start of concrete accession negotiations without movement towards the date of closure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer to your specific questions, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens. Question 1: In this regard, you are talking about a devastating EU compromise, Mrs Glavischnig. I cannot find any devastating EU compromise at all. On the contrary! We have convinced our partners in the Union of the possible consequences that their decision, their draft, would have. We have achieved that our partners in the European Union have changed their original drafts because we, Austria, have refused to accept them. Therefore, the negotiating position that the European Union will take in the negotiations with the candidate countries is very clear: It is not, as was originally planned, the talk of the "predominant in the EU – that is, the average – security regulations" – no! . but the negotiating position now established stresses the importance of the high level of nuclear safety and refers specifically to the conclusions of the Councils already reached by Austria and, inter alia, to the European Council. Thus, the position developed by Austria, which is also included in the anti-atom plan, is fully recorded. This position includes the call to the candidate countries for power plants to have a level which corresponds to the state of play in the Union in terms of technology and regulations as well as in operational terms, i.e. the state of the art. This was a clear success of the Austrian negotiators, a clear success of the Federal Minister Prammer, Federal Minister Bartenstein and Schüssel, as well as the staff of those departments who represented the vehement. You know that the candidate countries are invited to develop and implement measures and to report on them, and that the Council will monitor them on a regular basis. I am convinced that the candidate countries concerned, which are indeed in this negotiating position, namely Hungary, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, will fully respect this. On question 2: This refers to the misevaluation of the importance of the safety study of the Institute for Security Research. I see no possibility of misevaluation at all. Don't be angry with me if I say that so clearly and clearly! As part of the analysis of Slovakia's energy strategy, transmitted by the Slovak Prime Minister, we have found that this energy strategy in relation to nuclear energy is based on the assumption that Bohunice is in order in safety terms. That was a point of view that surprised us enormously. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Glawischnig, we have commissioned the Institute for Risk Research – I think you said so in your request – to take stock of and evaluate Slovakia's retrofitting efforts. The outcome of these investigations, which have, of course, also raised many open questions, has once again strengthened us in the attitude that the Bohunice V1 nuclear power plant poses an unacceptable safety risk, without prejudice to retrofitting measures. You can be sure: All three documents, the Austrian Energy Economic Opinion and also the questions of the evaluation of the retrofitting of the Bohunice nuclear power plant, were sent to Slovakia at the beginning of September. And since we have nothing to hide, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has, of course, made this study available to the parliamentary clubs; this study is now also available to the EU Commission. Question 3: Your third question is: What are the consequences of the non-existent approval of the Bohunice nuclear power station by the Slovak Atomic Energy Authority by 2006 and 2008? – Mrs. Glavischnig! It is a well-known fact that exactly this power plant Bohunice V1 gets approvals every year only. This is also a reason why we are doing very consistently and suspiciously in this regard. That means: It is not new to all those who know in this scene that there is no approval until 2006 or 2008, but only annual permits for Bohunice V1. Question 4: This question relates to a meeting with the Slovak Prime Minister and other meetings. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that you know that in a very intense way I have not only addressed Slovak Prime Minister Džurinda – that is, what you want, we have already done and fulfilled: We have addressed not only Slovak Prime Minister Džurinda – but also the President-in-Office of the European Union Paavo Lipponen and the President of the European Commission Romano Prodi – and have given us an understanding that we see this closing date as the first step, but in no way agree with this closing date and see it as incompatible with the accession of Slovakia. I have also expressed very clearly and clearly that there is still a need for negotiations to reach an acceptable solution for both sides. I also held an intensive discussion with President Prodi in Tampere and again explained the Austrian positions in this regard. He has also promised us the support of the Commission. In the same form, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs Schüssel has recently presented the Austrian position on what Slovakia has now presented at the Council meeting or has Mrs Prammer and Mr Umweltminister Bartenstein explained very clearly and clearly the Austrian position. I myself will also make personal contact with Mr Džurinda's Prime Minister. Question 5: What activities are being undertaken to convince the EU Commission – especially Commissioner Verheugen and President Prodi, responsible for EU enlargement – of the importance of early Bohunice closure? – I have already explained in answer to the previous question that we are not only in an intensive written but also in personal contact. Recently, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Verheugen, and Commissioner for the Environment, Wallström, held talks to this effect. I was able to hear with joy yesterday – and you, ladies and gentlemen, have also, I assume, gladly heard that Commissioner Verheugen in the European Parliament clearly made the Austrian wish for his and called for an early closure of Bohunice V1. You can be sure that this is a success of Austrian politics – including your MEPs and the Austrian Federal Government. We can be proud of that. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the honourable Member Mag. Molterer and Schwarzenberger.]] On question 6: What dates are planned to explain the Austrian attitude to the rest of the EU Member States before the Helsinki Conference? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We don't start today. The sense that the Austrian Federal Government has drawn up a very clearly defined, open, fair anti-atom plan, decided in the Council of Ministers and also informed you, was that we are bringing this plan to the attention of all the Member States of the European Union, all partners in good time, but also of all the candidate countries, whether they are already negotiating or not. The Austrian position – which we have always considered important – is not to threaten, but it is to inform our partners in good time about the clear attitude of our country, which the population expects from us. In this form, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the embassies, and also every member of the government have already sent this information to the candidate countries. In the course of the traditional tour of the Capitales, I will also have the opportunity to explain personally to the current President-in-Office of the Council, Paavo Lipponen, on the occasion of his visit here in Vienna. Question 7: Question 7 is: What position does the government represent in the decisive negotiations with the EU and Slovakia? – Ladies and gentlemen! Our basic attitude and our basic objective are clear: We want to achieve an earlier closure of Bohunice V1. However, we are also aware that a state like Slovakia will need our support and that of the whole Union. Negotiations with the Finnish Presidency and the Commission have already begun. Question 8: They believe that the Anti-Atom Action Plan only states that "the existence of comprehensive and convincing closure plans is the basis for accession-related decisions in Helsinki", and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! We are ready to support Slovakia and we know that the European partners must support all these countries. The Commission has already put in place measures to prepare a fund to close early on the unsafe nuclear power plants of the first generation, such as Ignalina, Bohunice and Kozloduj. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When?]] I assume that Austria will also make its contribution to this and that we will receive broad approval from the National Council. With regard to the costs, Mrs Glavischnig, I am right. As far as I am aware, 1.5 billion schilling a year is called a cost of premature closure. It must not be confused with the basic closing costs. They would have been attacked in Slovakia anyway. It is only about the cost of early closure. I think you are right in this regard that these 1.5 billion schillings, which are called shillings, are a number that still need very careful analysis and estimation. But in principle – you too are right – these support payments will naturally be used for non-nuclear energy forms. On the question 9: Allow me to say that it is the responsibility of ambassadors to present very openly and very critically the situation in the country in which they represent Austria, here the situation in Slovakia. However, I am sure that Mrs Ambassador to Slovakia had full access to all information on request. I am also sure that, as requested, it has also sent the Austrian Federal Government's anti-atom action plan to the Slovak authorities. Question 10: The question is: What specific anti-atomic activities are known to you in this regard by Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel and by Federal Minister Bartenstein? – Ladies and gentlemen! I'd have to list a whole list now. It has begun with the Austrian Presidency on the European Union, in which we all, together – Mr Schüssel in the Council, Mr Bartenstein in the Environment Council, Mr Prammer, have fought for EU enlargement and those responsible for environmental issues – for that – which Austria has achieved – that the issue of nuclear power, the question of nuclear safety with such a high priority will be included in the European Council Decisions. It is remarkable what has happened in recent times alone. Mrs Prammer spoke directly to the Commissioners responsible in Brussels. She had an appointment with a Slovak member of the government; by the way, this man was ill, and that is why the appointment was cancelled. It was also last visited by the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family at the Environment Council on 12 November. The Austrian position and the expectation made clear in October that the decommissioning of reactors in the candidate countries as ineligible is essential to the safety of the European population and the necessary acceptance of EU enlargement by the public and that the EU must ensure that these reactors are closed as quickly as possible. I am pleased that, as I have been told, the Austrian proposal, for example, was supported by France, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs informed me that he was at the last meeting of the General Council on 15 and 16. In November, the specific interests of Austria in the matter of nuclear safety were addressed – as did the CEI, the Central Initiative, in direct discussion with the Slovak head of government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I can assure you that in the Austrian Federal Government everyone – everyone! – work with full force to implement the Austrian interests in the sense of the anti-atomic plan. I would like the Austrian National Council today to send a strong signal to support the Austrian Federal Government with a resolution backed by all four parties and to make it clear that we are not aware of the insecure nuclear power plants that we are not aware of the EU accession of a country with unsafe nuclear power plants, in the interests of people in our country, the safety of people in Austria and Central Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8884	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. We are going into the debate. Each group has a speaking time of 25 minutes, with individual contributions of up to 10 minutes. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e8915	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, without a doubt, the members of the Austrian Federal Government support efforts to close the extremely dangerous nuclear power stations like Bohunice as soon as possible, only: You have changed the path that has been taken for this purpose considerably during your term of office. You know, I've already told you about it. I am convinced that it was the sin of the Austrian anti-atomic policy to shift from a strict exit to a "higher safety standards" philosophy – and I have already told you that in this House – because the safety standard philosophy is not a complement to the exit philosophy, but its clear opposite. Those who insist on making nuclear power plants safer will buy that orders will flow back to the nuclear industry in billions, so that the need to operate power plants longer will also arise, because, finally, such billions of investments will have to be amortized! In addition, the corresponding EU companies – the companies in the west! – held the know-how present and trained young scientists. So it will be a technology that can no longer be kept in the markets for a long time, because it is uneconomic, artificially sustained by false political decisions. From an Austrian point of view, it was really not necessary for you to get on with it! Federal Chancellor! They're talking about the state of the Union. With permission, the "EU status" is not relevant for Austria in connection with nuclear power stations. We have a different position. Thank God! In Austria, a wise decision by the population did not lead to nuclear power stations, so we should not defend the state of the Union, but the Austrian state and the Austrian standards, and these are called: not nuclear power stations! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, as a tribute to reality and to the likely different hazards of nuclear power stations, one can create a ranking of the desired closures. But living another six or eight years with a ticking time bomb is not reasonable! Above all, Mr Bundeskanzler, if something happens in Bohunice, in Kozloduj, we need to stop talking about one and a half billion schilling or other such sums, because then it is about human life, then it is probably about useless cultural landscapes, and then it is also about costs at an altitude that we cannot imagine at all. That means: Every Austrian initiative, which goes beyond that, should – in this we share your opinion – not as a threat, not with the index finger, but with a much clearer attitude than allies, as the voice pipe of the reform states in Brussels, also as a supporter of the wishes for accession, but very probably on the basis of a clear position. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Bundesminister! I also made it clear to you that, in my opinion, Austrian government politicians also have to articulate our position much more clearly towards the Western nuclear energy groups. It's companies like Siemens, Framatome, Westinghouse, EdF, who are still making huge profits with a potentially killing business. It is therefore quite clear that we would have more credibility if we also had this discussion and perhaps told these companies that there are no more incentives for anything, for no more business settlement, for no training, until they get out of these shops, because these transactions endanger us, our health, our country and our security. In view of the plans that Siemens or Framatome, for example, are taking care of in Turkey – in Turkey, which is known to be at risk of earthquake, where terrible accidents have just occurred, whose witnesses we are all, these Western companies want to create a new nuclear power station! –, I wonder: Where's Austria, what are you doing? And that's where I think the fun really stops! Federal Chancellor! There is a really safe nuclear power station all over the world, and this is in Zwentendorf! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In order for the Federal Government to put more emphasis on its exit concepts, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to seek your agreement on this request and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9027	The request just read is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Oberhaidinger came to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9051	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, I ask you to: The really safe nuclear power station is in Zwentendorf! However, I would draw attention to the fact that, as far as the exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy is concerned, there is still a very long, rocky road in Brussels, in the European Union, ahead of us, a path which will be at least as stone and difficult as that of establishing at Brussels the concept of cost-reality for nuclear power. This has already been mentioned by my previous speakers from the Green Group. I also think that this concept is very important, especially in view of the ever-increasing free electricity market. However, I would also draw attention to the fact that, for the most time, ladies and gentlemen in the House now want to hear it, or not, that within the framework of the European Union, the use and use of energy sources is subject to the sovereignty of the Member State concerned. In view of this, when we signed the Treaty of Accession with the European Union, we were very proud of it – please remember! – that in our contract we could expressly agree not to use nuclear power for electricity generation. However, I must, on the other hand, grant the same right to the other Member States whether I like it or not. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! As you know, since I am an energy speaker in my group, I have accompanied this very important and essential issue in the House, and I am very glad that the German Chancellor has sometimes spoken of it, but at least of the more frequent majority of the National Council resolutions, which we have been able to adopt on this subject. It was not always easy, but I believe that the security of our people is worth this effort. I cannot therefore begin very much with the justification of this urgent question. In the first sentence it reads as follows: "The Austrian Federal Government no longer seems capable of action in nuclear policy." Furthermore, a "monthly strategyless zigzag course" is spoken of, according to which "both between ÖVP and SPÖ in the government" and "there seems to be no clear nuclear line within the SPÖ". Ladies and gentlemen! I can't see anything from it far and wide. It's not like that! We have just heard – and this is also good and right, but we could always have – from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, we will also be hearing from the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for the Environment, and all of this has been brought about by our joint motion for a resolution towards Brussels in recent times and how far they have been able to put themselves on this issue. Even if it sometimes looks like a zigzag course for the viewer, I just want to draw attention to the fact that a zigzag course signals movement. In a slalom you can't just go down the slope, you sometimes have to avoid a tortoise, otherwise it wouldn't be a slalom! As has been said, it is not as easy as some people imagine the implementation of all our wishes in Brussels. But there is, as we have heard, a good basis for conversation, and we should keep it in all cases. If you had spoken to us, we would have been able to tell you what is really going on right now. It would have been possible to invite members of the Federal Government to do so before. But, as has already been said, this issue is always worth a urgent request because it concerns the security of our people, even because it concerns existing fears. That is why I am very concerned! However, since there are already latent fears in the population as regards the use of nuclear energy, in particular the unsafe reactors in our neighborhood, and in view of the fact that there is a " vast potential for danger", I ask you: Let's not shake the fears over charge! Let's note that it's a great danger potential, but build up all this so that people don't think they're safe from a nuclear accident in Bohunice any more night, I just think I'm missing. This is exactly the kind of populism that we can hardly make up for politically. I recall that, even if we should be very successful in Brussels, it will take some time for Bohunice to leave the grid. I am happy about every day to do this earlier, but it does not benefit people anything preferable, which is not feasible by us alone out of our own strength! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am pleased that the related costs have also been addressed. I should like to draw attention to the fact that our motion for a resolution, which is still being presented – and I hope that it will be a joint motion for a resolution, which all the parties represented in the House can share – will address the cost issue. We have heard today that taking Bohunice alone off the net will be a lot of money, but I believe that we are truly committed to providing financial assistance together with the European Union. However, if we pretend that this is possible in the entire Central European area vis-à-vis all the candidate countries, I must make this clear: It's impossible to think! Imagine the amounts that would have to be spent on this. We can't do this bilaterally, but we can't do that with European support. In our motion for a resolution, in particular paragraph 4, the Federal Government is urged to make every effort to ensure that the Helsinki European Council sends a clear signal to bring forward the concrete closing data. I believe that the language of the government we speak in this resolution is very clear. In paragraph 5, we draw Brussels's attention to the fact that, as a whole, we are concerned with the concept of nuclear safety that, at last, a uniform safety standard should be adopted in accordance with the Western model, which then applies to the candidate countries – for something has to be based on something. That is what we have been thinking about. If the Greens' agreement, as I have been signaled, fails, I am authorized by my group to say that we can do nothing about it because we have already adopted some of it in the resolution in July. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that, in the sense of the appeal of the Federal Chancellor, all of us can then agree to our common request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9127	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9148	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, particularly Mr Oberhaidinger. The fact that a joint motion for a resolution has not yet been reached has also to do with the self-understanding of the Socialist parliamentarians and the EIA parliamentarians, for it is obviously not possible to formulate a motion for a resolution with parliamentarians of all the parties represented here in the House without having to ask the ministries permanently whether that is all right what we want to write in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is still being asked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: May we, or may we not?, in the Federal Chancellery: Can we do that, or can we not? – Ladies and gentlemen! We as representatives of the Austrians here in this House need a little more self-confidence. We have something to say to the government and not to ask whether we are allowed to do so at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have to understand this once if you really want to do parliamentary work here! But we do not even trust to write in what Mrs Prammer, for example, repeatedly calls for in the newspapers. Yes, why don't we write what she says in the newspapers over and over again that she's going to do, not in? It's probably the minimum that we write what Prammer says, what climate promises, and what Bartenstein always announces big, into these applications, because they're supposed to do what they announce – damn it! –, also implement! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've had it since the 5. On 1 November 1978, particularly after the Chernobyl reactor disaster, a broad consensus was reached in Austria, which could be formulated in about the following way: For us energy generation from nuclear power has no future! In his government statements, the highly revered German Chancellor Vranitzky said that social democracy will ensure that there will be a nuclear-free Central Europe. Yes, please, take care of it! You've had years to do that! With the planned EU enlargement, the Austrian Federal Government is invited to take responsibility at European level at last! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As an EU member, we have the opportunity to significantly influence the future importance of the use of nuclear power in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen of the still-government parties, and this responsibility must be repressive in the interest of subsequent generations – with emphasis! – are perceived. There are simple ways to represent these interests with emphasis. A possibility is simply called Veto. Austria must put a veto against the accession of those countries whose nuclear power stations – listen carefully, Mrs Federal Minister! – does not correspond to the state of Western technology. This is the minimum we demand – and we owe it to the Austrian people – that there is a veto against the accession of those countries whose nuclear power stations do not correspond to the state of Western technology, because there is an obvious risk for the population of Europe and, above all, for the population of Austria. The Federal Government must make a clear commitment to the use of this veto by allowing the government parties to make applications where this is in. That is the minimum I expect from the government parties and the responsible Members, including you, Mr Oberhaidinger. There must be clear and time-consuming exit scenarios. This could finally make you credible again and make the EU a safe and hopefully nuclear-free area. However, the previous procedure of the representatives of the Federal Government has not been done to be truly optimistic in this regard. Mr Bundeskanzler, on the facts. – The Austrian Nuclear Energy Policy Action Plan states, among other things, that Austria is an important concern to make it clear to the candidate countries in good time and unmistakably what the European Union expects of them. In particular, Austria must draw attention – you have written it in and decided – to see the relevant Council conclusions as an essential condition for entry. – The Council’s conclusions! Yes, why don't you do what you, Federal Chancellor, have written here, then? The relevant conclusions of the Council are that non-refitable nuclear power stations, such as those reactors you mentioned – Ignalina, Bohunice, Kozloduj – must be shut down as soon as possible. And there is also a decommissioning plan, including the closure of the above-mentioned facilities according to Agenda 2000: Bohunice V1 in 2000, Mr. Federal Minister, and not in 2006 or at some point. It's clear: 2000! Why do we not put this into the motion for a resolution, Mr Oberhaidinger, if it is already clearly defined? Why can't we write this down if the government has already known itself on this date, including in Slovakia? Let us write it in, and then we will agree. Why are we now going back behind something that has already been decided? Can you answer that question, please? So: Kozloduj in 2001, Kozloduj III and IV 2002, Ignalina 2002. And now we're going back behind all that was set out here? We are not, of course, credible with this, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Bundesminister! Now, at once, we have to get around with 2006 and 2008. Federal Chancellor! ==References== In November, representatives of Austria, within the framework of the Council Working Group, EU enlargement, agreed to a compromise which is not intended to be credible on this issue, since it already gives the applicant countries the sole primary responsibility for the safety of their nuclear power stations in the context of accession negotiations. A review of the standards required by you is no longer possible, Mrs. Federal Minister! – So one step in the wrong direction again. You are no longer credible about anti-CFC policy in the European Union! Mr Bundeskanzler, you are not, Mrs Federal Minister, you are not, and you too, Mr Umweltminister, are not! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! For the Austrian population, it is now no longer possible to understand the actual attitude you take with regard to closure, with regard to retrofitting now. The previous procedure – and the Ambassador of Slovakia has also confirmed this in writing – is simple and simply unacceptable. That's what she writes. Despite the report of the Institute for Risk Research – we have already heard about it today – about the safety defects, for example in the Slovak nuclear power stations, especially Bohunice, you have not been able to present the danger of this power plant. Yes, and if you, Mrs Bundesminister, Mr Bundeskanzler, have shoved this report until a few days ago and had been afraid that this report will come to the public? – A report that clearly and clearly stands inside... [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Prammer.]] On the 12th of this month – you don’t need to shake your head! – you have sent this report to the parliamentary groups, Mrs Federal Minister, via an employee – who I believe is true. On the 12th of this month, when the pressure was already very large and everyone already knew that you had put the report in the drawer, you sent it to him at once. This report states that there is still no replacement for the lack of steel concrete, that there is no reduction in pressure or other safety systems, that seismological retrofitting is not sufficient to ensure that the reactor pressure tank is so sprayed that a berry cannot be excluded. All that's inside, all that's what you've shubbled. Why do you do this, Mrs Bundesminister, if you pretend to represent the interests of the Austrian population? Then why did you shake that? Even the Slovak Atomic Supervision Authority – colleague Glawischnig has already said it – has not granted the usual multi-annual operating authorisation since 1995, but has only been granted an operating permit for more years. Yes, the alarm bells would have to ring with you, Mrs. Federal Minister! But you do not continue to care, you put the report in the drawer and you do not let it go to Parliament until the 12th. This procedure, Mrs Federal Minister, is unacceptable! The statements made by Mr Bundeskanzler are no longer acceptable, because not credible, the statements of you are not acceptable, because not credible. The statements of Bartenstein, Schüssel, Swoboda, Flemming are becoming more and more contradictory. We are losing our credibility in a question in which we still have a pioneering role at that time, ladies and gentlemen: on the issue of anti-CFC policy, which Austria has really made excellent over years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the still government! They are about not only to endanger the entire anti-CFC work done over many years by many groups, but really not to operate very effectively in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9287	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Barbara Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9312	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I've been wondering for the longest time: How seriously do we really discuss anti-atomic policy in Austria, how much has Austria's anti-atomic policy become exclusively a media spectacle? Who takes the most dates – big announced! - Right? Who lays most kilometers – big announced! - back? And if someone once distances himself from proclaiming an appointment or a few kilometers large, because he may also be interested in coming home with results – not every appointment is suitable for being announced big – then he must be responsible in this country and obviously has made a mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: And what is so bad about responsibility? Then you'll be responsible too!]] I would like to say to those responsible for a media spectacle that has not taken place, not in relation to what comes out. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary to deal with the Austrian anti-atomic policy over and over again, and to ask the question: What do they look like, the right ways to go wherever we want, namely to become a nuclear-free Europe? But whoever believes that this path is a simpler one, a faster one with a few sentences, has obviously understood very little of this work. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the meantime, we should not hide what Austria has done. There we should not put our light under the casket. It has been an incredible work that we actually brought into four conclusions at the Austrian Presidency last year's nuclear or anti-atom chapter. I say it quite openly: Some Member States have only followed up and have not been very happy about it. We are happy that all of this is inside and that it is also taken into account and referred to, especially now in the negotiations for the enlargement of the European Union. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I just wondered more than in the debate about this energy chapter at the so-called first round, Bohunice was suddenly talking, because I wonder: What has Slovakia lost in this round? That means that things that have nothing to do with each other have been mixed, and I think it is always necessary to see exactly what is inside this energy chapter or – I have to start differently – what would have happened inside, there would not have been Austria. It would have been practically nothing in the matter of nuclear power inside. The proposal stated: Each state itself judges, for it knows all the best what it has to do with nuclear questions. – Of course, that would have been totally unacceptable for us! We have said that on the basis of these conclusions, which we have achieved, we want to make the assessment, and that is what we have succeeded. We have brought the Council's conclusions into this energy chapter, and that is not a failure! Really not! It has been an incredible success for Austria that we were consistent. The desire to go a little further, to take a step further, to achieve more success is still there. This is also the task of our anti-atom policy. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Bohunice is concerned, the Austrian Federal Government has also taken a consistent course, and of course we cannot leave it. For example, this so-called secret report on Bohunice – we will immediately demystify it – concerns: In principle, this report contains facts that we have known forever. They have only been summarized once again, so these "secrets" have been rewritten. So "secret" is this report! There are, however, two new facts in this report, namely two reports from the International Atomic Energy Authority, which we were not authorized to publish. I have nevertheless handed this report out to you, the National Council Clubs – on call, that is true. I have only two days of authorization to publish and also to pass on the report. Of course, this report has also been given to Slovakia – and it has already been demonstrated in September! – that is because the Institute for Risk Research has not been able to answer everything in this study because questions have remained open. A letter was also sent to Slovakia to answer these questions. Unfortunately, they have not yet been answered – one of the essential points I want to go to Slovakia. As far as Helsinki and the closing data are concerned: I simply expect intensive discussions with Slovakia, and I also expect there to be a willingness to negotiate for an earlier closing period. I am convinced that Slovakia sees this and also the seriousness on the Austrian side. But with all this, we must not forget that Slovakia too has its problems and that we must also strengthen Slovakia in this context in accordance with its backs. However, I will never do one personally – even in this sensitive matter of anti-atomic policy – to propose the accession process in order to prevent an enlargement process. This would lead to a completely wrong strategy for Austria. With regard to assistance for Slovakia, Austria will have to launch many rounds, conduct many negotiations and, above all, have a lot of activities to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mr Schweitzer! I am quite sure that, together with Slovakia, we will establish a much earlier closing time of Bohunice. But this is not possible at the push of a button and on a call. This is a hard struggle, these are tough negotiations, and above all these are negotiations that should not always take place just in front of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9373	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9395	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Schweitzer, volume and the self-confidence you demand certainly do not replace reason or seriousness in dealing with this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our very clear confession: Unsafe, non-renewable nuclear power stations – and Bohunice is such a thing that we all know – must be shut down as quickly as possible from the network. That is what we are confessing, no question at all! It is Austria's merit that there is today consensus in the EU that there can be no membership of the EU for a country with unsafe nuclear power stations. First point. Second point: However, we have to ensure – and this makes sense, too, that consensus is serious – that those who are already members of the EU cannot be treated better, but can also be treated worse than candidate countries. That is why our commitment to this is quite clear – and there is also consensus in the EU – that European safety standards – they are already defined – must apply to all nuclear power stations within the EU, whether they are a Member State or a future Member State. But, Mr Schweitzer: It is simply not reasonable and it is not intended to call for a veto against the start of negotiations. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No one asked!]] That is a wording as we are still discussing it for a resolution. And that doesn't make sense of us. In order to raise a demand, it is enough, but it is reasonable to enter into negotiations so that I can achieve my goal in these countries at all. And if there should be a veto at all – we hope not all – then that will have to be at the end of the negotiations, if then in expectation – the signals are still others – the willingness to take these reactors out of the grid and shut them down. But please in the correct sequence: First of all, negotiations lead, and if these are not aimed at the end of these negotiations, of course, a veto is against the accession of such a state, as I am sorry. I am on this point with the Federal Minister: I am also sure that in the negotiations we will reach a far earlier date for the conclusion of Bohunice – in negotiations – when it was decided by 2006 and 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9442	Mrs Moser has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9464	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Yes, historians will notice that there is a word of the year 1999, and that is, "exploratory talks". And historians will also note that this year, the Austrian anti-AKW policy has fallen back from a strict anti-AKW course on the course of the exploratory discussions. This will be documented historically clearly. I can already prove this by comparing what you, Federal Chancellor, told us a year ago in your reply to the then urgent question on Mochovce – I have read the Stenographical Protocol of 13. March 1998 – with what you said today. Here – based on three examples that can be listed – you can see very clearly how you switch from a comparatively still driven course to a "slording travel wave", I could say, or to an exploratory negotiation form. First example: ==References== March 1998: We will be "intensive for a nuclear-free central Europe". – Today you say: We will do "persuasion work." You also said – I quote – at the time: "I, like you, ladies and gentlemen, have become an active anti-atomic policy" and the role of Austria's stepmaker "for a nuclear-free Central Europe". Today you say: We want to pursue a non-discrimination policy. I'm continuing: Then you said: "At the moment, I have to tell you, it seems premature to set up "speculations" on the state's response to the results" regarding Mochovce. And you said, "In our view that at least blocks 1 and 2 of the Bohunice nuclear power plant should be shut down as far as possible, nothing has changed. Our position is clear: Should the Slovak Republic actually put the Mochovce nuclear power plant into operation, this must be done at least" – and I am now emphasizing this: They said that – "to be associated with the immediate closure of the first two blocks of the Bohunice nuclear power plant." You said that! You said that almost a year and a half ago, and today you are saying that we should achieve as high safety standards as possible, that we should achieve earlier closures and that no accession of countries with unsafe power plants should take place. Please, that's a quantum leap, that's a quality leap! Worlds lie between the position of 1998 and the current position of the end of 1999! And that is why it is up to this Parliament to keep your original statements in mind again and again in the context of urgent requests. Then: Bohunice's a dam break! Talk to Radko Pavlovec, Minister, Minister, Federal Chancellor! Experts tell you again and again: The consent to this energy protocol also means green light for Bohunice, and the green light for Bohunice is also green light for the completion of temelin. And the green light for Bohunice is also green light for the operation of Dukovany and also for the operation of Paks and Krško. What you're doing in anti-atomic policy is really a dam-break policy. Please, keep this in mind! And I'll tell you again: That's not my assessment, that's the opinion of experts! And the assessment of diplomats also speaks for itself. Mrs Matzner has already been quoted. I am not issuing this witness to the Federal Government! Read your own testimony in the letter of Mrs. Matzner: There is talk of dilettantism, there is talk of party-politically motivated procedure, there is an unprofessional approach. - Yeah, that's all you can say. It says it is black on white, and it has not been condemned by us, but unfortunately made available to the public in any way by an employee from your government. I would also like to remind you of what is happening here in this Parliament on 10 October. A five-party decision was adopted on July 1997. At the time, the mandates of SPÖ, ÖVP, the liberals, the Greens and Liberals – at the time they were still represented in Parliament – decided that the submission of comprehensive closure plans would be an indispensable part of the accession process and also the preparation of the Helsinki negotiations. It was packed, that was decided. I repeat: Close-up plans are an essential element. - Where's that today? It's all gone, not a word of it! What you have offered us today, Mr Bundeskanzler, I can only call this a "Brave-New-World" debate. They have gone from very clear positions, they cover themselves in relatively dirty formulations, they may tell a story about it, and thus a cover is spread about the new form of nuclear policy, which has lost substance, content, edge, which goes back to an EU-friendly position – and that is the main accusation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your kneelfall and step back can only be explained by the fact that you want to serve a nuclear policy representing the EU Commission, a nuclear policy written by international groups based in France, based in Germany, who want to make the big business in Slovakia, Ukraine, Russia. And that's my biggest accusation: this kneefall in front of the big atomic lobby here, now and today, and that what happened on the 10th. ==References== ==References== It has already been reached in this area in Parliament in October 1998, today it is all the macularity. Mrs. Minister! You can say quietly: Always this media spectacle! – Work! You're making a media spectacle yourself. They say we're putting in a veto. And then what happens? On Sunday, the Federal Chancellor comes to the "press hour" - apologise for this personal formulation - and says: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! So who's doing the spectacle? You spoke to the media about Veto, because that's nice in the "Kronen Zeitung". Her policy is the headline policy in the "Kronen Zeitung". We want substance, we don't want to go to the "Kronen Zeitung" at all, but often it's no different than about this medium. I also remind you of the staging of the so-called atomic summit in June, part one, part two. What did you promise?Unknown term type: "%s".? At the time, it was clearly stated in writing that concrete demands must be met – we also quoted it in our request – that "the existence of comprehensive and convincing closure plans is the basis for the accession-related decisions in Helsinki". Federal Chancellor! You said today: Yeah, we're still behind this anti-atom action plan. But there is no such thing as that, because it says: "comprehensive and convincing closing plans". – But now there is no mention of closure plans in the Energy Protocol at all! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] The Energy Protocol speaks of safety standards, not even of Western European or of the best possible German safety standards – no, now there are all at once EU safety standards, now there may be minimal or medium-sized safety standards. And I'm curious about what you're going to say in half a year when we're sure we're going to bring back a serious nuclear policy. Then you will probably talk about using minimum security standards within the meaning of Hungary or Slovenia or perhaps from Ukraine. This is the "cascade" of the European and Austrian anti-atomic policies, and you are here for that. Instead of really turning this field of politics into your chief business, let chaos and party-political gag rule and disassembly yourself, Federal Chancellor. And I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the Upper Austrian Parliament a resolution was adopted, and as the Upper Austrian, I would also like to present it to you for approval by all parties, by the ÖVP, by the SPÖ, also by the liberals and the Greens. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please, this is consensus, which is also very diplomatically formulated, so you could really agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9615	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Moser and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9639	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It should be noted that Mrs Glawischnig or the Green Group today considers the anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government critically with this urgent question. I fully endorse the statements made by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Prammer: We operate a consistent anti-atomic policy, we have no doubt that we do not know a safe nuclear power, that we do not consider nuclear power to be sustainable, and that, especially with regard to the accession process, we do not want to act with veto threats, but on the basis of negotiation, we want to achieve that accession from Central and Eastern European countries is only possible with safe nuclear power plants. Austria has made progress in recent years at the level of the European Union in this field; Mrs Prammer has already quoted various decisions by the European Union, usually so-called conclusions, which were a leading part of the development of Austria and which enabled us to turn the European Union's nuclear policy, particularly in the course of the accession process already under way. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it would have been easier for Austria if we had received more and more support from those EU Member States – Mrs Glavischnig, if you would give me your inclined attention; I have also listened to you – which, for example, are Green Environment Ministers members of their governments. Mrs Glavischnig! I'll tell you: If you and your colleagues had spent only 10 per cent of your energy on the convictions of my German Environment Minister colleagues Trittin and my French Environment Minister, Mr Voynet, 10 per cent of the energy you are in the criticism of the anti-atomic policy of this Federal Government, then it would have been well-invested energy and we would have done much easier in some ways. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] It is a little doubly to act here and to take a vehement stand against everything and every position, but at the same time to be obviously very tolerant if a representative of a sister party in France does not even speak of a French exit from nuclear energy. What has changed in France? If the EdF makes a different policy, are exit concepts known there? Or: While Germany is talking about exit concepts, it cannot agree on dates, so that the nuclear power plants remain on the grid and in reality nothing has changed on the material backgrounds. Let us show that in those countries of Europe where the Greens are active and responsible, in the field of nuclear safety, in the field of environmental policy, something has changed, that they have also contributed to it, then I will put the hat ahead of you and your efforts. As long as this is not even the case, Madam President Glavischnig, my accusation remains, I am sorry to be able to maintain a certain degree of ambiguity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is similar with the ideas of the liberals. Mr Schweitzer has expressed a very loud and committed opinion here. I do not realize that the policy of the liberals is a little more realistic: Today, it is no longer about an absolute veto with regard to the accession of Central and Eastern European countries with nuclear power plants, but you have expressly formulated: if they do not correspond to the state of Western technology. – This is also the position of the Federal Government. But what about the credibility of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats? On September 9, we learn that the President of the National Council has now elected Prinzhorn as the "first customer of a foreign electricity supplier" and that Energie Baden-Württemberg AG supplies the Group of Entrepreneur Thomas Prinzhorn with no less than 150 gigawatt hours per year? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What does this have to do with Bohunice?]] This has a lot to do with it, because it is a substitution of Austrian electricity supplies, Austrian national energy suppliers, who usually extract their electricity 70 percent from hydropower, and because this is ultimately a high nuclear power, which is imported here by an Austrian company. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: From Bohunice?]] It is also said quite clearly what the motive for this change of attitude is, Mr Schweitzer, honourable Member: "A juicy cost reduction" is associated with "a sound wall" being broken." – But in the sense of a credible policy, I also appeal to the Liberal Group that talks, referendums and debates in the context of a urgent request must be consistent with the recent conclusion of a contract with a German nuclear power group by a group of companies of a prominent liberal member of the public. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We talked about Western standards!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did we talk about Western standards, Mr. Federal Minister?]] This has to fit in somehow, or it won't be true anymore. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not all that hangs is a comparison! And that's terrible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why does Bartenstein distract?]] I do not at all dispel the credibility of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the field of anti-terrorism policy. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: That wasn't conclusive now!]] Atomic current is not divisible! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did we address Western security technology or not?]] When the electricity comes from safe nuclear power plants, is the parliamentary group free for nuclear power? Is this the change in politics, or isn't it? – No, no, that’s not consistent, that’s already said! Our attitude – I can repeat it – is quite clear: The three high-risk reactors Bohunice, Kozloduj and Ignalina shall be identified by the network. We cannot imagine the accession of the three relevant countries – and this is the case in the case of Slovakia – with these reactors on the network. We see the accession process as an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve a time of closure earlier than in 2006 with respect for 2008 through negotiations. Remember the scenario that Slovakia would not be integrated into this accession process to the European Union! – Yes, then, our possibilities to bring Bohunice to a close would be respectful to move the closing time of 2006/2008 significantly forward, not very realistic, probably not very likely. So this accession process is an opportunity for us! I now appeal again to the Green Group to do yours and, unlike what has happened so far, to work with your friends in Germany, in France for more support than before on this issue! This would be very helpful because Austria is an important but only a member country of the European Union; and having large Member States such as Germany and France on its side is always helpful. I call on the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to be consistent in their anti-atomic policy and not to allow something absolutely unacceptably on the Slovak side and categorically reject what prominent members of the Liberal Group on the German side are doing very well with large-scale power supply contracts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9787	Mr Schweitzer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9814	Mr. Federal Minister! I'll allow you to be corrected. You have just said that the Prinzhorn Group has concluded supply contracts with a German electricity supplier. - That's wrong. Rather, it is true that the Prinzhorn Group has concluded this supply contract with an Austrian company, with the EVN.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9844	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9866	Mr Schweitzer, ladies and gentlemen, I quote literally from the press of 24. September, according to which "the contracts under "Dach and Fach" were confirmed, as a speaker of the group of the "Presse"". [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That doesn't have to be true!]] This is literally quoted in the press. If, after this publication, other proceedings have occurred, I have no idea. ==References== In any event, September this year was that a speaker from the Prinzhorn group confirmed the conclusion of these power supply contracts and, according to the literal quote, reported "under roof and compartment".
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9913	Mrs Sima has spoken. The voluntary time limit is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9934	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Bohunice nuclear power plant – we have heard it more often today – is one of the most dangerous nuclear power plants we have in Europe. I heard from Mrs Moser earlier that there is a green light for Bohunice. I say it's just the opposite: The traffic light for Bohunice stands on red, and so it should stay. The Bohunice AKW must leave the grid before 2006/2008, before this closing date. For this we need to work, the Austrian Federal Government must work for it. And that is, I think, probably the only consensus in this house today. The current time, before the Helsinki Summit, is a great opportunity that we can really achieve this goal. We now have to start concrete negotiations with Slovakia. In recent weeks, the Federal Minister Prammer has really made a fair effort to enter into negotiations. She has held talks with the EU, talks with Slovakia are still in progress. At this point I was allowed a slight criticism: I would have liked more activities from the Federal Minister for the Environment in this area. I hope that today's session will give us the opportunity to carry out more activities in this direction together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government has agreed with the leading environmental organisations in this country, with Global 2000 and Greenpeace, to adopt the Anti-Atom Action Plan. And it is really important to implement this action plan too! Now is the time when it needs to be implemented. I would therefore really like to see the use of all the competent ministers of the Federal Government in this area in order to actively enter into negotiations with Slovakia in order to actually make every effort to reach an earlier closing point for Bohunice. I believe that this is really a very urgent and very important matter, in which we should combine the forces and in which everyone should pull on one line to achieve this goal. And there should not be any party-political disputes in the foreground. I therefore hope that there will be a truly strong four-party proposal in this House today, which will support it in this sense. Now, just before the Helsinki Summit, we really have the unique opportunity – a century chance for Austria – to intervene over the Eastern enlargement process, that is, to formulate conditions through the Eastern enlargement process, simply to influence the design of energy policy in the Eastern countries. We simply have to make it clear to Slovakia that there will be no start of concrete accession negotiations without a willingness to negotiate on a former conclusion of Bohunice. We should use this opportunity absolutely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e9983	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10005	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that everything is not so clear in this context shows this debate, shows the great amount of time we have to spend on this issue. The Freedom Party has always stood for clear positions. And only clear positions are those that one can follow, clear positions and clear goals are those that will succeed. We liberals have always been successful with this. I'm new to Parliament, I'm a wind farm operator myself. Mr Bartenstein! They themselves know how difficult it was to build three wind turbines in Upper Austria that generate electricity for a small community with 1,500 inhabitants. For this reason, it is not so certain for us whether politics will not give back to the pressure of lobbys as to whether it meets the responsibility for health and peace for the citizens of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the Federal Chancellor says that we should demand from the other states only what they have imposed on themselves that we should not overwhelm them, we say: We don't want to do any more anyway! That's what we want! There is a 1994 decision which Slovakia has agreed to close Bohunice in 2000. There is also a letter from the 1998 commissioner for border nuclear installations from Upper Austria, by Mr Pavlovec, who says that it has always been clear that Mochovce was the replacement of the two old Bohunice blocks. Why don't we want to know about it today? The financing of this Mochovce nuclear power plant was approved only on the condition that it was closed by Bohunice. I have an opinion here, which clearly shows that 170 million D-Marks were given only with the clear demand that the same conclusion would come in 2000 and that, if this claim is not met, it will be serious consequences that the credit can even be repaid. It is up to us to appeal to Slovakia to take their decisions seriously. We all know that it cannot be that we will continue to go the way of fossil energy sources and nuclear energy sources in the future. We all agree that we need the changeover to renewable energy sources. I mention here only the SPD member Hermann Scheer, who is regarded as a pioneer in Germany, who has always said without When and But: If we do not create this transition to renewable energy, we will have no future. He always says that this is the only way to create jobs to a large extent. He says nothing is more labor-intensive than the switch to renewable energy! If Mr Bundeskanzler says that the permits for Bohunice are issued only annually, I would not be worried as an operator if I could be sure to receive these permits every year. It doesn't matter if I get an approval every year for ten or 15 years if I can only operate it. I'm always told we're fine, we don't have any problems. I have to say: Yeah, we're very good. But I'm also sure that a lot of things have to change so that everything can stay the way it is, so that we can do as well as we do in the future as we do today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The final effect in politics is to achieve quality of life for all and to pursue economic, environmental and social aspects. I ask you to: Let us take advantage of the time, and let us not fail to articulate these decisions and our will clearly! It can't be that we put children in this world and rob them of them in the same course of their livelihoods. Let's use the time, we still have enough time, but we don't have time to lose! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10071	Mr Spindelegger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10092	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The objective is clear, and I have not heard any speaker today that he has something to do with it. We want these two power plant reactors to be removed from the grid as soon as possible in Bohunice. However, there are considerable differences of opinion on the method by which this can be achieved, and I would like to make a few comments. First of all: There are a number of initiatives by the Federal Government to prevent these reactors from actually staying on the grid until 2006 and 2008. Some have already been mentioned, but there is still a lot to add. At the meeting of the Central Initiative, our Foreign Minister Schüssel presented our position to the Slovak Prime Minister Džurinda in a very clear way. ==References====External links== In October 1999 the Environment Council gave its colleagues within the European Union very strong arguments on why the Bohunice nuclear power station had to be closed earlier. Ladies and gentlemen! He also pointed out today that some Greens who are represented in this Council of Ministers unfortunately did not share his view in this way. There is an initiative by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, the Secretary of State, which clearly expressed our position to Slovak Foreign Minister Kukan at a meeting in New York. This seems to be not lacking. What it is all about today is that methods are put into space, which seem to lead to success, but which, from my point of view, can be rejected as impossible. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not take this into account either, because when talking about a blockade or a veto, it seems that you do not consider what this veto can do. Let's think about it. Mr Schweitzer has already drawn the veto card before the debate on Slovakia's accession has even begun. What does it mean, in practice, to take a veto against the start of accession negotiations with Slovakia? Mein Ladies and gentlemen, what about our efforts to get Bohunice off the grid as early as possible? Who seriously believes that Slovakia, because it is not allowed to negotiate with the European Union on membership, would immediately be ready to close Bohunice? I can't imagine that a serious thinker would just say. The opposite would be the case. Slovakia – I appreciate this as a foreign politician – would probably be in strong turbulence with its government policy, especially as regards European orientation. It must be borne in mind that it has not been long ago that a meciar regime has just ruled in Slovakia, which was anything but democratic. That means: Pulling the veto card and acting against Slovakia has nothing to do with removing Bohunice from the net. Once again, the headline seems to me to be primarily in the foreground and not the success of foreign policy. That is something we as the Austrian People's Party cannot agree with. I can hold that very clearly. We want us to get closer to this goal in a common policy, which is also carried by this House, and we have to apply methods which, I believe, seem appropriate that Bohunice actually goes from the grid earlier than in 2006 or 2008. If criticism of the Federal Government has been given here, I can only share it in one. – Mrs Federal Minister! You too have spoken in public about a veto and a blockade policy in Helsinki, although you will not attend this summit, and I think the situation will be more difficult than that we were actually closer to our goal. It seems to me that it is a little bit like that we are going to do according to the motto in foreign policy in the future: Whoever shouts louder, let him get right! But the success will not stop because this wood hammer policy in foreign policy is absolutely missing. A skilled diplomacy must be put in place, and for this we are quite clearly acting by the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to Mr Schweitzer – who is always in the foreground of these veto issues and here gives the impression that the National Council only has to make the decision to close Bohunice – that, of course, this is not the case by far, but one can still influence this decision by the Slovak Government in probably very different ways. It's similar to a card game. Whoever plays his trump, his ass, in the first round will do the trick, but he won't win the game for a long time. That is exactly what it seems to me to be in this case. Those who believe that, with big headlines, Slovakia will be able to move to take Bohunice off the net will fail. And we don't want to do that – in the interests of the country and the population! Our aim, therefore, is to work towards this goal in this resolution in the National Council in summer, with a very skilled diplomacy that these two reactors are taken off the grid in advance. There is now a possibility. There is the possibility to talk to the Slovak politicians about it within the framework of the next OSCE contacts. There are better ways than to announce the newspaper, to negotiate with others – who then dement – in order to actually get closer to the goal. I believe that this will again require a policy of skillful diplomacy, which we have so far been very well represented by Schüssel and Ferrero-Waldner. This seems to me to be the more appropriate method than what has sometimes been said in this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10163	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10184	Ladies and gentlemen! This debate on the nuclear policy of the Austrian Federal Government seems to me more than urgent and very important, because I have already experienced the fact that, when it was not even a specific nuclear power plant, it was about any future nuclear power plants in the Alpine region, the negotiation delegation of the Austrian Federal Government has made a belly spot with a start, by abandoning a no to nuclear power plants in the Alpine region, a no to new nuclear power plants in the Alpine region. At the time, Minister Bartenstein was responsible for the Alpine Convention. In view of today's statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I must say that they have obviously taken the lead in the example of Mr Bartenstein, since today there is a gradual abandonment of a clear line in nuclear policy. And I think that must end. It is also in the service of international credibility not to carry out such rosels. If it is still said and one has committed oneself to striving to close these nuclear power plants, and if I hear from the Federal Chancellor today that we are actually talking only more about safety standards – I have listened very closely to him; these safety standards were no longer very clear in the definition of what one refers to – I wonder: What will be the standard for these standards? What will be the standard for "early closing"? At all events, I have not succeeded in finding out what "early closure" is meant to mean compared to what the current proposal is. Is it a day, a week, half a year, a bit earlier, a bit later? – Please, in this way it will be difficult for you to have international credibility in negotiations with unquestionably difficult partners. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Bartenstein – I am sorry, Mr Bartenstein, I used to be able to say that I am not going to do this anymore, Mr Bartenstein, I am telling you that: [[Oye! - Call the Freemans]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He is a Minister, but also a Member, so he is also a colleague!]] I understand very well that you are doing everything so that we do not talk about your line for which you are in charge at the moment, so to speak. I understand very well that you do not want to discuss at all what you have to do. I, my colleague, spoke very well with the Italian Members at the time, who have approached the Austrians at the Alpine Convention in order to find support for a more stringent attitude towards new nuclear power plants in the Alpine region. But the Austrians either did not know Italian or did not want to understand it. And then you'll talk about that we Greens don't try us! I'm sure, although not in charge of making contacts that you have requested. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What are your green colleagues doing in Bolzano?]] Mr Bartenstein! We can't move back and forth now, who's distracting. At the moment, you have the obligation to carry out what the Austrian Parliament has given as an order with your colleagues. There are currently discussions on a common request, and I hope that these discussions will come to a reasonable conclusion. We would even be willing to make compromises here, but then we expect something to be on the table by the end of the year, which looks a little less washed out than what we needed to hear from you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10259	Mr Parnigoni has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10280	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of Lower Austria, namely the forest district, living on the border, I represent a population affected by such power plants – in particular Bohunice here. There, therefore, was always the desire to achieve the fastest possible closure of Bohunice. The Lower Austrian Parliament has repeatedly adopted such resolutions, and the Social Democrats have always advocated a nuclear power-free central Europe. We have followed this path, ladies and gentlemen, and we want to go this way in the future. Federal Chancellor climate, but also Mrs Prammer, many Members of Parliament, but also the entire government have set up a number of activities here, taking initiatives to get closer to this objective. High house! The fact is, however, that Slovakia is, for example, a good neighbor, but above all, a sovereign neighbor, who, of course – as we do – also uses the right to self-determination. That is why we must, of course, first and foremost be convinced and put this in the foreground. Whether we do this persuasion alone as an Austrian or jointly within the EU is a second story. I therefore also believe that the consideration that the peoples of Europe consider the safety of nuclear installations to be one of their essential fundamental concerns must be taken seriously. This concern should not be used to influence, for example, the EU's enlargement process. However – and this is the task of our conviction – it must be made clear to those Eastern European countries that it would naturally be useful for them to take seriously the concerns and fears of the Europeans, of people in these countries. It should also be made clear to them that, the more they respond to our wishes, the faster there will be the opportunity to conduct and complete entry talks. Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be clear that there can be no new EU member whose nuclear power plants do not comply with the pan-European standard. Our aim is therefore to find many partners in Europe who represent this line. I am therefore very pleased that, on the one hand, the Members of the European Union in this Joint Committee in October have joined the line to demand the best possible closure of these dangerous reactors, and yesterday, Commissioner Verheugen in the EU Parliament made it very clear that the particularly dangerous and highly outdated reactors Bohunice V-1, Ignalina and Kozloduj must be closed. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these countries need to be aware that this exit is very important to us, and we need to be aware of the fact that this exit from these countries can only be achieved if there is international assistance, but also the extension of bilateral support, such as Austria, for example, in the case of energy saving measures, in the transition to renewable energy sources or in the construction of gas power plants. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at Mr Petrovic's speech, which contrasted with the exit of the government's opinion, which goes towards a philosophy of higher security standards. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true with those old reactors like Bohunice, Ignalina and Kozloduj. Here we agree that these must be closed. To Mr Schweitzer – unfortunately I do not see him at the moment – it should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that we are currently working on a joint request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But, Mr Scheibner, this part of Mr Schweitzer's speech, in which he meant that this Parliament should find a common line, no matter what the government is doing, I shall lift this part, which I copy, because if you are mistakenly entering a government, of course I will observe very closely how then the behaviour of Mr Schweitzer will be towards any members of the government. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The light is already shining! Talk time!]] But seriously, Mr Scheibner: I believe that the objective must be that there should be a common position for Austria, a common Austrian position of the Parliament and the Government, and I therefore call on everyone to make an effort to create this common position. If this were not to happen, we would bring about a weakening of our position, and I would have a position aimed at saying at all costs: Please, then don't think these countries are going to come to the EU!, think they're a very dangerous threat. This would lead to the likely existence of old nuclear power plants until the Super-GAU takes place. And that can't be it! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore appeal on behalf of the Lower Austrians, I appeal to all... [[Abg. Oberhaidinger presents a document to the speaker!]] - Is that all right? [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: That's all right!]] Very good! . Now I could say that my appeal has been fruitful, because the four parties have agreed, and I am now allowed to submit this motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the joint motion for a resolution. I would like to thank the honourable Members here in the House for being able to find us on this common line. I think it's a good start in this new legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10382	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10405	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These are my first words in this high house, and it commands me my childhood, to give you all a warm greeting "God!" to say. However, I would like to make the following comment: If someone comes into a house and greets in a friendly way, he doesn't have to expect him to be insulted. Here I would like to express my personal anger at the first meeting, in which Professor Van der Bellen and then Mrs Petrovic welcomed us so very "friendly" – under quotation marks – and about the fact that today Mr Cap has called us into question at all by saying that we as new parliamentarians are doing nothing here and that our work is of no use to us. Unlike some other parliamentarians or those who said so, I have worked for over 30 years in the field of energy and renewable energy, and I would just like to say that this was possible here in Austria for the first time after Dr. Haider, then head of state, first implemented energy promotions for renewable energy in 1989. That was the starting point for promoting renewable energies in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor said earlier that it will be different: Which nuclear power plant is safe, which nuclear power station is not safe? – There is no safe nuclear power station, and I believe that the success we had 20 years ago was not the Austrian government but the Austrian population against nuclear power. I believe that it is possible here too – and I also see this joint motion for a resolution as the first step in this direction – to discover common interests, and it may be that Mrs Petrovic, who put this into debate earlier, is very interested in the fact that there are similarities. If this has now been determined in a decree by the Slovak Government that an exit from nuclear energy for Bohunice should take place by the year 2000, we can also expect this to be implemented. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Yes, even German nuclear power is not good, and perhaps the comment here, Mr. Federal Minister, is that in Germany about 400 billion schilling are for the disposal of nuclear power plants, the 400 billion schilling that are currently thrown on the mobile market with great free movement. It's not just Bohunice, it's not just Slovakia, it's about people. This is the important thing, no matter where they live: in Slovakia, in Slovenia with the Krško nuclear power plant or wherever. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of these 400 billion schillings, which are on the high edge in Germany, there has not been a single tired D-Mark, although there are several studies – including the German eco-institution – that have confirmed that within one year the exit from nuclear energy is possible without loss of reserve. There is. This has already been clearly established in 1994, which has been transmitted to the German Bundestag, which was confirmed again in 1998, but unfortunately nothing happened! Nothing has happened in Germany, and nothing has happened in the other countries. Therefore, if we take the opportunity to put forward a motion for a resolution, it can only be a first step, a first step towards doing something for people: there, like there, no matter where! We need to know that no nuclear power plant can be technically controlled. If you say now that we want to put a junkim in the context of Slovakia's accession efforts to the EU: Please, the countries currently within the EU would have to be self-responsible if they had long had to get out of nuclear energy. We can't prescribe them, we can't demand them. But since it is here that there is a desire to do so, you can say – even if it is necessary in the sense of responsibility for the people who live there – that it is necessary to get out of this scrap reactor. I would like to make another appeal. You are right: It has not taken the wise decision of the Austrian government about 21 years ago that we should get out of nuclear energy, no, it was the Austrians who made this decision. It was a wise decision, and I urge you to implement this decision from then on – not only for Austria, where we have managed, but for the EU and all the candidate countries. Get the nuclear power plants out of here! They're an energy-technical insanity.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10488	The next speaker is Mrs Glavischnig. The remaining speaking time is 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10509	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now achieved very long, hard negotiations to draw up a four-party resolution, and the Greens will also support it. However, I would like to say the following: We support them mainly in recognition of the good will which has become visible here among the political groups that the anti-atomic consensus in Austria and in this House should be continued, but all the more sharper and more precise we will look at the government in the next three or four weeks. If this – I say it again – continues to chronicle scandal, it will be on 16. This House is continuing on December, in the sense of an anti-atomic policy which protects the interests of the Austrian people and which is not primarily focused on respect, diplomatic restraint and apprehension, but has really only the interests of the Austrian population. This 16. or 15. It is for me that December is also the nail sample to what extent we will continue this nuclear consensus in this House. We've done this in the past, and it's really the very last time. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That was the main committee debate!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10545	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10566	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State, to act inconspicuously: This your information, the Prinzhorn group, is not the last. I can tell you that in an APA report dated 30. It is clearly stated in September 1999 that Prinzhorn chose an Austrian solution for his paper group, an Austrian electricity supplier. The joint subsidiary EVN and Wienstrom will in future supply the five locations of the Hamburg Group in Austria and Germany. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I'll hand it over to you. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I'll give you one too!]] Yeah, it's my younger date. [[The speaker presented a document to Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein, who is sitting on the government bank.]] Mrs Fekter asked: Who's telling the truth here? Who's she saying? . I assume that this is the fact that you wanted to hear, Mrs Fekter, and I am not suggesting that you say the untruth. I assume that it also comes from honest heart, if You join the protection community of Madethan, because it is your nature, which is obviously equivalent to your nature, to stick to this softened system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oberhaidinger – he is here again! He constantly warms up those old things that we all know about energy policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] It warms up that the energy industry is a national matter. We already know that, Mr Oberhaidinger. Even if you say it again and again, everyone has understood that – I think at least. The fact is, you mentioned it, that Austria has chosen to give up nuclear power plants, so to speak, for free will, for free. That's right, we know. But you say – and this concession is the shaker – that national decision-making on energy supply is a matter for the individual states. But this is not about restrictions on national decision-making processes, but about the fact that there is a risk – and a huge risk – for the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] This is about the fact that safety hazards are given to the greatest extent possible by a Bohunice nuclear power plant. As Mr Parnigoni said, This is the right to self-determination. – There we and there the Federal Government has to represent the interests of the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Preamble of this urgent question mentions this zigzag course, presented here by colleagues Oberhaidinger as a movement, it must be said: That's the problem! It's not movement in it, but all are tearing in different directions! This has also been seen in the example of the veto statement by Mrs Prammer on the one hand and the withdrawal of this statement by Mr Bundeskanzler Klima on the other. That means you want to move one thing, but you can't do it. It's a static matter. It's not moving! I am very glad that this four-party resolution request has at least been made today. It was very tough to come here to this joint resolution. That's where I heard: It would be a provocation for the Slovaks, if they were told now that they would have to close in 2000. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a provocation. I regard it as provocation if Slovakia, on the basis of diplomatic relations, holds talks between the Federal Chancellor climate and the then head of government, Meciar: We have to lock Mochovce, we have to go to the network with Mochovce to close Bohunice. I consider this provocation. If you take a stand as expected by the Austrian Federal Government, I expect it to be a clear position. This also includes explaining to the candidate countries what position Austria represents quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That means it's not just about conversations. Because you can continue the discussions until 2006 or 2008. This is a reference to the positions, this is a matter of facts, and this is about results to be implemented as far as possible. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] That means a closure of Bohunice!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10666	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oberhaidinger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schweitzer, Dr. Glavischnig and comrades on anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government and closure of the Slovak nuclear power plant Bohunice. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The request was adopted unanimously. (E 1.) [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: unanimously!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Although unanimously adopted, it is the majority!]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10720	I'm going to the 6th Negotiation. Point of the agenda relating to the first reading of the application 15/A, Federal Animal Protection Act. Mr Pirklhuber spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10744	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The ringing for a federal uniform animal welfare law represents an equally important test stone for the will for reform in this country. Let's remember: In 1996, 460 000 citizens signed the popular desire for the creation of a Federal Animal Protection Act. It must be for this House, ladies and gentlemen, order and decision to finally act here. My previous speaker from the agricultural sector, Mr Schwarzenberger: They have only addressed aspects of our proposal. We are certainly willing to discuss some particular aspect. But, please, we need a federal animal welfare law! It is not only about the control and questions of the future of agriculture, but also about the national animal welfare law in the interests of our Austrian consumers and also in the interests of farmers. Let me try to explain this in detail. Mr Schwarzenberger! They have used, as an example, the EU debate on the EU directive on animal husbandry in organic farming, which was regulated at EU level. It was precisely in this debate that it turned out that the Austrian position is not peddlerable, namely the Austrian situation, which is characterized by a very complex situation in agriculture. We have alpine agriculture here, we have mining farms that have difficulties in farm farming. That's where I have to stop you: It is nowhere in our concept that the bonding is not compatible with a species-friendly animal husbandry, i.e. with runaway and pasture farming. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is our proposal. However, we do not want to discuss this in nine federal states, so that every federal country and perhaps every small region will claim any sentence in it. No, please, we want a federal animal welfare law so that we can make offensive policies in Europe. We want to move something in the agricultural policy, and we must do so with a federal animal welfare law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why do we also need it for the market, Mr Schwarzenberger? - We need an Austrian animal protection seal. The current AMA mark is beautiful and right, but which consumer has not already asked himself: What's behind that? What's behind this seal of goodness? We need animal welfare criteria here, and I repeat that they must be uniformly regulated in order to be communicable. We want a clear regulation. I would ask you to find an answer to three questions for yourself. The first question is: Our concept calls for us to introduce minimum animal welfare requirements based on the animal justice index. This means a flexible system where farmers also have opportunities and opportunities to respond to it. Question 2: Is the ÖVP also for promotion...? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is what we have in the Salzburg Animal Protection Act! That's what we've got inside!]] We Greens, in particular, have contributed significantly to the fact that this law has gone in this direction, Mr Schwarzenberger! – Question 2: Are you, as we are, also responsible for promoting research and development of animal welfare systems? Question 3: Are you also like us for the ban on cagery by 2005? That's, please, the cracks of our federal animal welfare law. We don't want to go away from that, and we won't go away from it. We hope that the ÖVP will also announce a step, a back towards reform will, and show us that common solutions will be possible here in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10793	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10814	Mr President. High house! I can join in many areas of my previous speaker. I should also like to say to my group that in the past legislative period, we have often discussed this issue and have also introduced a draft law here in the House and that we have clearly seen the position of the Social Democratic Group in this regard. To Mr Grollitsch, who – if I may call this to mind – has talked about fish and various things: Mr Grollitsch, I do not think it is enough for you to fish in such a debate in the murky and do not even want to score funny points, but I think you should read in the Minutes - if you were not already present in the debates. Then you could see that, as has been said, the Social Democratic Group has already tabled a legislative proposal during the last period and has led this discussion very intensively and that we fully support the main demands of the animal welfare people's desire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me add one more thought. In view of the difficulties facing Austrian agriculture, I should like to remind you of some of the contributions made by colleagues of the political groups, but also of me, which were held on this subject during the last legislative period and in which, as with some previous speakers today, we have already noted the following: There is no danger for Austrian agriculture in those areas where we are concerned, namely small, family-run farming and organic farming. For these will not have problems with a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act, but rather will be able to gain an economic advantage if the representation of interests and if in the legislation we strongly support these efforts and these efforts also in the direction of marketing. Let me conclude by saying one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: On the occasion of the 55th anniversary. I wanted to see our then birthday and, as I believe, the future chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, perhaps it would be possible to do so at 56. The Austrian People's Party is turning to this line on its birthday. I repeat this wish, and I hope that we will succeed, on the basis of this proposal, which contains a number of points to be discussed, but in principle we agree to a uniform animal welfare law. Because we need the Austrian People's Party to do this. According to the statements of the Secretary General of the Austrian People's Party, Maria Rauch-Kallat, it would not be possible to go through the Federal Council with this Animal Protection Act, even if the majority were found here in the National Council. Therefore, it will be our common effort to convince the Austrian People's Party to agree to a federal animal welfare law during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10863	Mrs Aumayr has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10885	Mr President. High house! A clear yes comes from the liberals to a federal uniform animal welfare law. It is quite ridiculous that policies in this small country produce different animal welfare laws. This is really an anachronism, and it should be regulated. But now to the request of the Greens, to Section 3, Section 11, agricultural animal husbandry. There are some areas that you can easily agree to, for example, when I refer to Abs. 2 Lessons: It should be borne in mind that the animal justice of animal husbandry as regards the criteria for the provision of space (moving possibility), soil quality, stable climate, care intensity, social contact, poultry also with regard to the criteria for cages. That's all right and good. This will benefit the animals, and this will benefit man à la longue. But reality, of course, is another. The fact that these demands are associated with great costs for agriculture is also clear to all of us, and this at a time when the prices of products for farmers, for agriculture, have been almost halved thanks to the "good" policy in Brussels – under quotations! Farmers today receive half the price for their animals – for pigs, for poultry, for cattle – at the price they received before joining the EU. Here we go now and say: We draw up such strict demands, which are associated with such enormous costs, and then our farmers still have to compete with competition from other EU countries! This competition, however, has completely focused on mass animal husbandry. The products originating in the pig sector from the Netherlands, Denmark or Portugal are obtained by the bank from mass animal husbandry. In this year alone, 200 000 pigs have been imported into Austria with live animals transports. At a time when the pig price for our farmers is totally in the cellar, 200 000 pigs are imported! But that's not enough. These pigs are slaughtered in Austria after they have been transported thousands of miles through Europe and subjected to the stress of transport, and with the slaughter these animals are processed into Austrian meat and as Austrian meat! This is really fraud against consumers and farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: And on the pigs!]] I do not want to talk about the animal torture that is taking place at all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What does Mr Schwarzenberger say about this?]] Mr Schwarzenberger, you too, Mr Schwarzböck, Mr Auer. They keep silent about all these things. [[Abg. Auer:... these are your friends!]] The SPÖ Group and the Minister for Consumer Affairs Prammer are also silent about these things. This is really a fraud that an Austrian seal of quality is given on finished products, such as a sausage, in which there is not a decagram of Austrian meat. We will, of course, not agree to this animal welfare law until you abandon this fraud.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10956	Mrs Partik-Pablé has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e10977	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger of the Austrian People's Party said some time ago in Parliament that the federal states should not be deprived of all competences in connection with the Federal Animal Protection Act. He said that if the countries already manage the disability, social assistance, rescue and hospitals so well, they will also make animal welfare good, and that is why we should leave animal welfare in their competence. Unfortunately, Mr Schwarzenberger is not present. I'd like to tell him: It is not the question of whether or not the countries can make it, but it is the question whether it makes sense for Austria to have its own animal welfare law in all nine federal states and thus to tolerate other legal provisions in each federal state. It is true that these provisions, which vary from one country to another, make it possible to withdraw from the narrow standards in one federal state and to divert them into another. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger returns to his place.]] I just quoted you, Mr Schwarzenberger. I have reported that you have said that the federal states should not be deprived of the competence for animal welfare. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Ladies and gentlemen, there are already Article 15a agreements between all the federal states, and they have already been implemented!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you an example of how to escape the strict rules of a federal country. There is, for example, the legal provision in a federal state that circus animals such as lions and so on may no longer be kept in cages. For example, in Salzburg there is this extreme animal protection. What are you doing there? – One departs, for example, to Upper Austria, where animal welfare provisions are not so strict. This is also the case with cage-keeping or dog-buying. In a federal country, for example, the ears and tail of dogs may be pumped, but not in other federal states. So it is really not in the sense of a uniform animal protection, that you will be able to escape from one federal state to another – until you are finally in a federal country where animal welfare standards are not so strict. I believe that you from the Austrian People's Party should once get through to say yes to a federal animal welfare law. You always believe you protect the interests of the farmers if you are against a federal uniform law. But I would like to tell you the following: Consumers – the population – are already so enlightened today and animal welfare-conscious that farmers will feel it once when they maintain their traditional standards of animal husbandry because the population will no longer buy their goods. You see it already: The trend towards organic farmers, to organic meat and so on is rising! Those farmers who do not create the connection to a modern animal welfare law will stay on the track! That is to say, you once again, at the expense of the farmers, are running a completely retroactive policy. I really want to talk to you today in the conscience so that you can decide with us a federal animal welfare law!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11021	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 15/A to the Constitutional Committee. 7. Point First reading of motion 9/A by Mr Mag. Ulrike Lunacekund comrades concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code, BGBl. No. 60/1974 as amended by BGBl. I No. 153/1998, the Civil Procedures RGBl. No. 113/1895 as amended by BGBl. I No. 140/1997, the rental law, BGBl. No. 550/1981, as amended by BGBl. I No. 140/1997, the Housing Property Act 1975, BGBl. No. 417/1975, as amended by BGBl. I No. 140/1997, General Social Security Act, BGBl. No. 185/1955, as amended by BGBl. I No. 138/1998, The Commercial Social Insurance Act, BGBl. No. 560/1978, as amended by BGBl. I No. 139/1998, as well as the Civil Service, Health and Accident Insurance Act, BGBl. No. 200/1967 as amended by BGBl. I No. 142/1998, amended 8. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 10/A by Mr Mag. Ulrike Lunacekund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11078	We shall now proceed to points 7 and 8 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11105	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The word "tolerance" has often fallen here in the House today, and it has been said a lot about recognition, respect – many appeals and calls to this House, to you all! [[Abg. Scheibner: So don't throw eggs, Mrs Colleague, even with other litters, that's exactly what this is all about.]] It's not about eggs, it's about different things. This is about respect for others, that has nothing to do with eggs, you know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have no respect at all! Respect for others is perfect for you!]] The two applications, which are now the first reading, are two applications which also have to do with tolerance, with respect and with the recognition of people who live slightly different from the majority in this country – and not only in that country. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What does she always have with tolerance?- Oh, my God!]] I will now also further strengthen your attention in this direction and talk about topics such as tolerance, recognition and respect. We live in a country where, very often, there are great words on these issues, where it is often spoken of every hour, every hour. But – and this too has been mentioned very often today – it looks very bad when it comes to implementing it. Actions follow in the rarest cases. And if there are acts, they often go in the wrong direction, as was the case yesterday in Linz, when the report of the Upper Austrian independent children's and youth attorney in the state of ÖVP and FPÖ was rejected by saying that she should reword the report. In fact, it has proposed that the minimum age for gender sexual acts between men from 18 to 16 years be reduced. [[Abg. Oillinger: (in the direction of the liberals) A FPÖ requirement!]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] And she was told she could change that, because it was not possible. ÖVP and FPÖ have said that. – That’s what there is in this country “tolerance” if someone makes just such a proposal! The only reason for this is that the law in force here in Austria still applies to the 209 criminal code. At European level, this is wrong! You know that very well, I don't need to do that again. It is therefore necessary to make this request again and to build on the fact that a climate of greater recognition and respect in Austria, the abolition of a section that is unique in Europe in the EU, and the possibility that it may be possible before the European Parliament condemns Austria, and we have to change that, in any case, here in the House to delete these paragraphs. I think that we should go in this direction and hope to negotiate this with you in the committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At this first reading, however, there is also another request on the agenda, which has not yet been discussed in this House in this detail. You may be amazed at what social security, the right to rent, the purchase of dwellings and the rules of civil procedure have to do with each other. In all these laws, as they currently exist, there is discrimination against people who live together, who have chosen to shape their lives together, but who do not have the same rights and not the same obligations as the majority of the heterosexual living people. I particularly emphasize the obligations in this regard, because very often I get and get to hear – we too are accused by the Greens; today it has been mentioned – that we are always for so many rights, but we do not want the duties. In this area, especially in the recognition of communities of life and also of lesbian and gay communities, there are many couples in this country. You, too, probably know when you consider – I am particularly addressing the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ – in your family environment, in your circle of friends and acquaintances. There will also be women among your relatives who want to fall in love with other women and live with them, as will men who fall in love with men and want to live with them and shape their lives. Do you want to abstain from these rights, such as the right to enter the lease after the partner or partner dies? That is, in a situation that is very difficult anyway, she or he may have to leave the apartment. – That’s why it’s in one of the applications we’re making today. The second issue is the right of refusal to testify, the right of censure, which was already decided in this House in 1998 for the Criminal Procedure Order. It is about the fact that family members can also be understood under the concept of family members and that this is now also included in the civil process order. It is legally completely illogical why, although this may be the case in the criminal procedure, it is not the case in the civil process order. Another aspect we are introducing in this context is the possibility of introducing co-insurance in the framework of the various social security schemes for the same sex communities. You may not really be able – I am thinking of the human side – to argue that if two people live together who have common rights and obligations, it should be possible – as for most of you who are married or live in heterosexual communities – to assure the partner or the partner. Where is there, on the one hand, the legal and on the other, the human reason to forbid it? – This simply no longer corresponds to the circumstances in modern society. Another aspect that goes a little further is the purchase of dwellings, where we now also apply for a change. It is true that at present only married couples can buy an apartment together. So you can't buy an apartment with the sister, the brother, the mother, the son, the daughter, or anyone else. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can buy it, but you can't get the housing promotion!]] You can do this for two – alone you can always do it if you have the money – only if you are married. I am saying this in the direction of those parties who are always particularly interested in their own performance and are looking at economic life when it comes, for example, to the prevention of old age, to the provision of the children when they want to make the money they have earned. This could be done just as well in the field of residences. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We even give you the right!]] Our request now is that as partners in life should be called those people who are equal or different sexes when they call themselves cohesive as partners in life. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's something else!]] I would like to return once again to what it is basically about. Very often we hear: That's not a lot, why change something for them? I have Mr Klubobmann, Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, who is unfortunately not present today, at his speech at the first meeting on 29 October. October very closely listened. He said that this house should or should be a house of tolerance. Perhaps I should remind you that it was also he who, together with his Italian colleague, Foreign Minister Dini, made the proposal to introduce Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which also allows for equal treatment, for example on the grounds of sexual orientation. I think he really meant it with tolerance. I would be very pleased if, for example, the ÖVP could be inspired by its party colleagues in the Catholic Spain, where individual regional governments have already managed to enforce the registration of same-sex communities. I would be very pleased if you would come back to this House, to the committees here, to discuss with these colleagues, and inspired by them, so that we could go a little further together. Finally, I would like to ask everyone here in the house to trust exactly what we are constantly talking about: to create a climate of tolerance, acceptance and recognition. I think that this is the main point of our confidence in the implementation of these demands together in this House and in those people who are still discriminated against in their narrowest realm of life – where it is about shaping their lives – so far to put action and not just to find beautiful words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11242	I call Mr Jarolim. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11263	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if it is good to hold this debate today. I did not think it was really very good, and therefore not because it is a need for me – I believe that this should be a need for all of us to be interested in the matter – to make as little as possible a contribution here to a excavation of the positions, because it is about human rights. Mrs Lunacek! I'm totally with you. We have been discussing this for a long time, and you have known the point of view of social democracy for a long time. I'm a hundred percent with you. But I think that's a point that we shouldn't be emotionalizing here so that there's going to be grounded fronts again. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Many of the Social Democrats are not for this!]] – Mr Colleague! I can only tell you: There is a corresponding vote, and you know that. In the end, they have also helped us to do so, on the basis of our previous and final voting behaviour. I think it is necessary that we continue this discussion, which is now being held, because there is no rational argument anymore for maintaining the state we are currently in and which is now unique in Europe as a whole. Mrs Lunacek! You have referred to it: In the context of the European bodies, there have been numerous decisions, instructions and calls for proposals, which clearly state that our understanding on this issue is a completely unsustainable one and cannot be reconciled with human dignity and human rights. There has also been extensive work on the subject, and I have the feeling that things are moving, that we are moving forward in the discussion. That is why I say again: I think it is good to have this discussion in such a way that, after the discussion, one can really talk more and not dig into rigid positions. This discussion has also set out material aspects. Last but not least, in 1995 an expert hearing within the Committee on Justice made it quite clear that the decision-making bases, which the Constitutional Court has also set out in its deliberations on this matter under § 209, are no longer to be maintained. What I address is the so-called embossing theory. For a long time, it was argued that young men, faced with a similar sexual behavior, are shaped in this direction for the future and are therefore more protective than girls and women, for example. In the context of this discussion there was a presentation of scientific findings. I think you can't simply push these insights aside, even if you say you're not emotionally yet able to really deal with it and accept it – which I also understand. But I mean, you can't completely ignore on the other hand that it was shown that this embossing theory is incorrect. There is now no more serious voice across Europe that continues to maintain this theory. But this is the main point of the argument, why § 209 should actually be maintained. It is present in such a way that in Austria we distinguish between men and women in terms of sexuality and protection, without any material basis, because the above-mentioned factual argumentation is not correct. This situation is not to be maintained, and I should therefore ask to continue the discussion in this sense. I really distance myself from every finer word message and invite you all to further conversations. I think we really owe it to ourselves – it's about human rights! – to further develop these things. - That's the first point. The second point – you mentioned it, Mrs Lunacek – is the community of life. I mean, two things to say. This is not only about sexual societies, but also about heterosexual communities. What is the relationship between society and those who, for example, cannot decide to marry for formal reasons, but who still want to live together? Should it really be so that we say the only form of formalized living is marriage? Or should we say that we cannot prescribe everything, there must also be other forms, such as the registered community? We are for the registered community, which you can register for example at the office or elsewhere – you can talk about formalism – and explain to the two people to want to live together. This concerns both heterosexuals and homosexuals. There is simply a need in this country to live together without marriage, with, of course, lower legal consequences. But it is not understandable for me, for example, that if two people who have lived together for 25 years left one dead and no will, one assumes that the legal succession is the one that is currently planned – that is, under the exclusion of the partner, although it is clear that, due to the duration of this community of life, the person who died would certainly have preferred his partner. I think you should be able to offer such a thing. It doesn't have to be accepted. The fact is that there are not a few people – and there are getting more and more; especially with the heterosexuals – who say we want such a community of life. I think it is hypocritical to say that we do not really accept what is asked, do not really discuss and, ultimately, do not offer. Everyone is free to choose the one or the other within the limits of their power. I believe that this would not be an evaluation of marriage – this argument almost always comes in this context – but an alternative that has a different regulatory framework from the consequences. I think that's just necessary. Now to the individual points: We have introduced the testimonies, the right to give evidence in the criminal procedure, even for the same sex communities. The consequence of such a renunciation is that the person who has been living with another or another for a long time must not be reasonable that he says against his partner. However, there is no justification at all for the fact that what was introduced by us in the Criminal Procedure Order does not have to be introduced in the Civil Procedure Order, because there is no difference in content, whether the witness is involved in criminal proceedings or in civil proceedings, since the consequence is the same. This is something that is completely undisputed among professionals, namely that this divergent is not justified in fact. I am therefore saying: If we want to move here in the context of a more objective discussion, we either have to abolish one or equal the other. However, we are ridiculous if we continue to maintain this difference. That is why I would ask you to discuss this subject-matter as well. We are sure to conclude that what is currently decided is not optimal and, in fact, legally dogmatically non-sustainable. To the rental law: With the provision that this community should be a registered one – in order to offer here a form that makes it comprehensible, so that it does not dispute what it actually was – we are for that. I have already said something about social security and legal succession. All of these are points that we wanted to discuss further, with which we should take decisions, which – I say again – are about human rights, and we should therefore also discuss this issue accordingly and then take appropriate decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11309	Mr Krüger spoke next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11330	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Mr Jarolim's appeal to discuss this delicate issue as emotionally as possible is justified. I also fully understand that Mrs Lunacek has tabled these requests here, on the basis of her own familiar sexual orientation, no question at all. That was also to be expected. It is also perfectly true that you urge tolerance here, only, Mrs Lunacek, do you, in turn, accept this tolerance in dealing with those who are not necessarily on your level when it comes to reducing the age of protection. Next point: Ladies and gentlemen! It may seem almost grotesk, Mrs Lunacek, that in the past legislative period it was the Green Group and the Social Democratic Group, which are responsible for the fact that the protection age of the § 209 criminal code remains 18 years and not 16 years. Let me sum this up briefly: A vote on § 209 StGB took place in 1996 – the other discriminatory accompanying provisions in the Criminal Code have been abolished. There was a discussion then, and there was the famous coalition-free space. There was no majority in this coalition-free area for a reduction in the so-called age of protection in homosexuals from 18 to 14 years, and this vote has gone by – it has remained at 18 years. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as I believe, has tabled a very reasonable proposal, which has meant that the age of protection is reduced from 18 to 16 years. But it was your voting behaviour that contributed to the fact that this was not accepted. The ÖVP did not vote, but if you had agreed with the FPÖ, the protection age would be 16 years today. At the time, I took the view that someone who is in favour of the age of protection being 14 years of age cannot achieve a reduction to 14 years of age, but only a reduction to 16 years, but is against this regulation, represents a justamental position, only so that a reasonable proposal of the liberals is not met. [[Green call for tender]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point: the theory of embossing. I'm not a scientist, I don't know if the embossed theory is true or not, but I think that the discussion is shortened, because there are not only heterosexuals and homosexuals, but there is also the field of bisexuality. We know that very many young people between the ages of 14 and 16 have their first sexual contacts. And there are many who theoretically have a bisexual presumption. I therefore believe that it is quite possible to enter into the compromise at the age of 16 because they were not doing anything good, they lowered the age of protection to 14 years, because at this stage they should decide, and it should not be left to chance. We know that it is very often the coincidence that affects which side someone falls on, depending on what opportunity arises. I believe that this area was still too little debated, but it could be agreed on a total reduction to 16 years. That would be a very reasonable thing. In brief, on the requests for changes to the civil procedure system: It is true that a person can refuse to answer the questions if the answer is linked to the danger of shame, a criminal prosecution or an asset for him or a close relative. That's right! In the criminal code one has taken the companion into this privilege. In the case of civil process, it seems appropriate to me not to do so, because in the civil process the principle of researching material truth applies. If the state is so generous and if possible many give the right to witness, up to psychologists and psychotherapists, including life-mates, whether gender-oriented or not, this is his case, but in the civil process the material truth needs to be researched, and therefore I am not for a limitless privilege. Something very similar applies to the area of the rental law. Remember that a landlord makes a rental contract with someone, but at one time he has another tenant in case of death. That means that this has to be handled very restrictively, because after the private autonomy, no one can be pushed into a debt relationship. Therefore, restrictions are good here too, because otherwise, suddenly, another would enter into the debt relationship. We will have enough time – it is now a first reading – to hold the discussion without emotion, with tolerance, but also with tolerance towards other positions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11401	Mrs Fekter spoke next. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11423	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Lunacek, on your request 9/A: It concerns a federal law to amend the Criminal Code, the Civil Procedure Code and other laws. However, this application does not contain an article on the Criminal Code. I assume that this is a formal mistake, because you have formulated the amendment of the criminal code in your own motion 10/A. On the amendments: Citizens' Rules of Procedure. I believe that there is a difference in content – and this has already been done by Mr Krüger – on the right to give evidence of the criminal code. To the rental right: The ÖVP has always vehemently opposed the extension of access rights in this area. It is not clear that access rights are extended further. This meant an unjustified restriction of property owners' rights, and therefore we cannot give these wishes the consent. Mrs Lunacek! With regard to housing property, it is true that we also think of a reform of housing property and an extension of ownership rights in the purchase of housing beyond the spouses. However, this should not be a regulation for homosexuals alone in a gender-like relationship, but we must consider how we can better regulate co-ownerships in housing ownership at all, so that, for example, a mother, together with her daughter or siblings, can acquire an apartment. There is certainly much more need for regulation in this area than only in cases of inheritance and separation which you consider to be a problem, because in this context, not only a similar partnership is needed. Equal opportunities problems also exist in social security law and in other legal matters, I see that, if they are to be taken into account in legislation, communities must be demonstrable. Mr Jarolim, recognizing the problem, immediately spoke of the "introduced community". But this would again mean a passage to the office, and thus we would introduce a marriage of first class and a marriage of second class. We cannot explain this by the ÖVP, we cannot accept it. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Furthermore, it has not been discussed in any way in all these regulations how long the duration of such a community has to be. In some legal areas, the notification paper is sufficient, but in other legal regulations it is a permanent community – in the regulations you have provided for are mentioned once for ten months, but there are other regulations under which communities are legally recognised only if they last for a much longer period. On application 10/A: § 209 Criminal Code. Mrs Lunacek! They demand the replacement of § 209. We cannot give this consent. We are not in favour of a replacement-free removal, we are in favour of protecting young people. It is not right, Mr Jarolim and Mrs Lunacek, for us to be wrong in the EU. It is wrong to say that the Austrian legislation, which still has legal validity, would contradict EU law or would be illegal to human rights. In an Austrian case, the Court of Human Rights has stated that it is up to the national legislator to assess whether there are serious reasons for a different age of protection or not. We believe that reasons for a protection age and also for a different age of protection are very likely. The criminal statistics clearly show that in the cases pending before the Court, there is a very, very large age difference between the suspect and his victim. In 1997, more than two thirds of the suspects were double or three times as old as the victims. That is why I think we can very well derive the need for a legal regulation of the age of protection. Assigned: It is unsatisfying that a homosexual relationship becomes, for example, the very young, first of all, as long as they are young people, unpunished, but later a partner, when he becomes an adult, becomes punishable in the upright relationship. This is also unsatisfactory for the EIA. We therefore proposed, in the debate that has already been debated, to introduce a two-year tolerance period, but this amendment by the EIA was rejected by the majority at the time. We are, of course, ready to talk on matters, but if, for populist reasons, we make proposals, of which we know before, that they will not find approval in this House, I doubt the will to have a real discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11493	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11517	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am the last Member in the House to take part in the meetings of the Subcommittee, which spoke on this issue in 1970/71. I was a very young Member at the time. We discussed this issue in a subcommittee at the time. At the beginning, 18 years were planned by the Commission as a border, and in the Broda Government template 21 years stood because Professor Hoff felt that the embossing phase was up to 21. The Committee then managed to get back to 18 years. The ruling opinion of all the experts who led to this section was that there was something like a mint and that it was at least up to the 18th century. It's a year of life. Under these conditions, a provision has come into the Austrian Criminal Code, which, according to expert opinion, the Council of Europe, according to the European Union and many others today, is untimely, even harmful, because the current state of science and the opinion of all experts and experts is that not only the wording is extremely questionable, but that, even if it exists, it is definitely with the 14. ==References== That is why the provision that we still have is contrary to the intentions of the time, namely to the stamp, which is why it should actually fall. That is why I believe that this question, without wearing banners, should be dealt with calmly without emotions. It has been said that something that has led to a regulation is actually not true today. It also creates injustice against people, and for this reason it should be changed. In addition, Austria has paragraphs that help but other countries do not all have. We have, for example, the abuse of the dependency relationship. It is even more difficult to see that in Austria the principle of legality is forced to sue in any case, even if it was thought that this is not necessary in the particular case, while in other countries with the opportunity principle, it is not imperative that it be charged. All this leads to the Council of Europe and others telling us again: Change that, it's not necessary! The experts say that it is not necessary and creates injustice. Talk about it and do it! . I would like to express my support for the other speakers here in this House. Let's not ask a big question of banners, who is fighting for what and who is fighting for, out of it, but let us eliminate an injustice that is contained in our criminal law, especially since the experts say that what other experts said in the 1960s and early 1970s is no longer sustainable and has proved to be wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11571	Mrs Edith Haller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11595	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At first reading, we are dealing with two motions tabled by Mrs Lunacek on gender equality – a very sensitive issue – in which I am going to conform with Mr Jarolim – which has been being dealt with here again and again in the House for a number of years – I believe since 1992. I acknowledge Mrs Lunacek's personal concern in this matter, and therefore I have a great deal of understanding of her concerns and of course she is trying to accommodate as much as possible in her requests. We also know that there are similar efforts in other European but also non-European countries. Recently, similar efforts have been carried out in the Swiss Chamber of Deputies, the National Council, with 105 to 46 votes. As you will certainly know, you are not as far-reaching as the measures you require. The FDP in Germany also operates a change in this area. However, I must say, as a liberal and above all as a family spokesperson of the Freedom Party, that from my point of view and also from the point of view of our party, I must refuse to accept these projects, as they have been formulated by you. This concerns primarily the withdrawal of § 209 StGB. My colleague Krüger has already told you that we have our own ideas in this regard. We have also tabled this in the form of an application for the last legislative period. We are also in favour of decriminalisation in this area, but we cannot accept it – especially I do not accept it for my person as a family speaker – that homosexuality should, so to speak, be raised to the norm. This is the fundamental trend underlying these two applications. The second request is mainly about a fundamental trend in the idea of equalizing non-heterosexual communities step by step of marriage. This completely contradicts our freedom of life, including our free party programme, in which: The family is organically located between individuals and society and is the most important social community of the state, and it cannot be replaced by any other institution. The ÖVP has also made similar applications. These aim at anchoring the family and marriage in the Constitution. In this area, I believe, we are very close. In particular, as regards rental rights, Mrs Lunacek, you must note that non-discrimination and freedom stop where they lead to discrimination against others or to restrictions on the freedom of others. However, the wording you choose in the area of rental rights and property rights would bring a huge intervention, for example, into the rights of the landlord. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Yes, it is! I believe that you should also face this objectively. We are also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11650	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Professor Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly: Mr Jarolim's speech today impressed me very much. It was a very nice summary of the problems and the clear indication that they are not only technical issues, but basically human rights. But perhaps we should not, or, better to say, you – I am not a member of the committee – particularly stress this point in the Committee, in order to come to an agreement at least once on one level - I do not know how to say it best – on the less delicate points, or to get away from the allegations that are called, as tolerant as we are not all and so on, but at the end of the day, nothing has changed again, neither in § 209 nor in the law of rent, nor in the law of inheritance or elsewhere. I would just like to say that, like Mr Schieder, I am equally convinced that, although § 209 of the Criminal Code is applicable law, it is wrong in the matter. Mr Krüger! Is he still there? - No, but that doesn't matter. It is true that, about three years ago, we discussed this passage precisely and at that time the majority or the willingness to go through the reduction of the minimum age in question from 18 to 16 years. This has been correctly presented by you. But why we did not agree at the time was essentially the fact that the organisations of those concerned had discouraged us from doing so, for the simple reason that it was unbearable that discrimination still remains. Now, of course, we can look back on whether it would have failed to agree to the reduction of the minimum age to 16 years, which, after all, has made progress but would not have removed discrimination. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where you'll be late!]] I would just like to say the following about the comments made by Mrs Fekter: Perhaps we do not start with the most difficult things or with those things that you or the People's Party consider difficult, but we start with civil matters, i.e. with those questions or with those problems that simply occur in everyday life and which make everyday life difficult. These are the points that my colleague, Mr Lunacek and Mr Jarolim, have already mentioned, such as the purchase of dwellings. I wonder, Why should this not be possible for living communities, be they heterosexual or homosexual? Why should the right of entry into the housing rent of a homosexual community be denied? A married couple, even if they are fighting murder and fire, are allowed even if the partner dies or divorces and so on. There are certainly also points in tax law that require a review in this regard. As far as social law is concerned, my colleague, Mr Lunacek, has already referred to it. With regard to inheritance law, I have heard the objection – with half an ear, here somewhere – that those concerned can indeed make a will. Yes, but that does not lift discrimination. First, we know that many people have an aversion to make a will, whether heterosexual or homosexual, and second, even if they have a will, they pay different tax rates. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The heterosexual communities must also make a will, they have no right of inheritance!]] Yeah, that's a problem! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A community of life is something else!]] Why can't you change that? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You can change this if the standard has an acceptance in the population! She didn't!]] Why treat communities in which, let us say, 30 years of living together, in inheritance law as much as a couple who may even live separately? I see no reason for this. [[Call the liberals: We already!]] This is, however, an attitude, Mr President, which makes me fear the worst of the Committee if this is dealt with further at this level. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: If you have a majority, you can change everything!]] I have tried to take seriously what Mr Jarolim said, namely that it does not make sense to be present in plenary now, but that we should try to solve this in the Committee as far as possible without noise and much noise, perhaps not dealing with the most controversial issues at the outset. On the basis of the experience gained during the last legislative period, I would have thought that it is not impossible to find a consensus on this issue either with the FPÖ or with the FPÖ. That is why I am now surprised by your call, Mr. Cot. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11801	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11822	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleagues from the Greens! We liberals will not agree to a withdrawal of § 209 StGB, because we believe that the withdrawal of the age of protection is simply too far, because I believe that there is a different development in female and male young people, especially at this age, that there is a different speed which must be taken into account in the legislation. In other words, Mr Schieder has already said the same thing. Professor Van der Bellen! Elimination would also ignore the differences between the sexual habits of homosexual men and lesbianally held women, which are natural and which we believe should be taken into account. Only in the area of homosexuality is there still the specialized line to be taken into account in the legislation, there are massive attempts to influence young people in this direction. All of this should not remain unmentioned in the discussion. We recognize, however, Mrs Lunacek, the problems of homosexualally-suspected young people, especially when it comes to the relationship with the same age. That is why at the time we submitted to the House a proposal proposing a reduction of the age of protection to 16 years. Why you did not agree to this request at the time, just as the Social Democrats did, cannot really be explained by the reason that the organisations that have made themselves strong for the withdrawal of § 209 StGB have advised you against it. It would have been an improvement for those concerned in their sense. Now go here and say: We have not agreed because the organisations have dissuaded us, and that is why the age of protection is 18 years!, is a somewhat sad argument, Mr Van der Bellen. You owe it to yourself that you did not take advantage of the chance three years ago!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11859	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11880	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why I am still speaking is the fact that in the FPÖ series the statement has been made: Yes, you can't put that in the standard! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! What's your standard? I ask you: Do I belong to your norm? Don't I belong either? [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you know what a standard is? A law!]] Which one of you offers to meet your standard? Who's falling out of your standard? [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you heard about generally abstract norm? The Minister of Justice will explain this to you!]] You won't believe you've had the right to determine what's going on in the standard and what's not in the standard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You also want to determine what comes into a law! Don't talk so funny around!]] I would like to say the following: Every human being is individual, and every human being conforms to the norm, only one must have it in his head and must not have a scam like you who want to select and determine who belongs to it and who does not. Over this time, we'd have to be pretty slow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Standard is a law! You got it wrong!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You misunderstand! Your excitement is totally unfounded!]] Mrs Fekter! You basically said the same again in your speech today as you did half a year ago. I remember very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Only did you do better at that time, but today you were a little more reluctant. In this context, I would only like to draw your attention to the concept of residence if a partner dies. In this regard, you said at the time that the landlord could not believe that the other partner would stay in the apartment. You know what, Mrs. Fekter? Whether a man or a woman remains in a rental home if the other partner dies, the landlord can never choose, but it's just like someone will stay in the apartment. You have to take note of this! It's not that simple that if two same-sex people live together, you can say: Now the other one has to go out, because that is unreasonable for the landlord! So it can't be, because a landlord can't always choose the partner of the other, whether heterosexual or homosexual, but the partner is also there and belongs to the apartment. That's how it's supposed to stay. Because you always talk about tolerance and that you have to love all people et cetera, then I ask you if you are not schizophrenic, because on the one hand you demand this virtue one and on the other hand it is you who then, if it doesn't fit into the stuff, select it. You finally need to know what you want! In their schizophrenic role you can no longer hide, they must finally give up!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e11989	There is no further statement of words to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate on the first reading of applications 9/A and 10/A. I assign these two requests to the Committee on Justice. 9. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 13/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisitsand Comrades concerning a Federal Constitution Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act as amended by 1929
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12028	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. We shall go into the agenda immediately. The applicant shall receive the floor. Please, Mrs Stoistis. The remaining speaking time of the green club is 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12065	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobar vecer, poštovani gospodin president! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A state objective for the respect, preservation, promotion and protection of the linguistic and cultural diversity of the Republic of Austria is something that has been discussed several times in this House, also during a first reading in the last legislative period, but not only there, but also in interesting – let us say this – events of the Constitutional Committee or at the invitation of the President in cooperation with the national councils and the representatives of the Austrian autochthonian minorities. I always had the impression – if I let this happen in the memory of Revue, I can confirm it – that it has given a very high degree of consent to this objective, namely to give a commitment to cultural diversity in the sense of respecting, preserving and protecting it. In the SPÖ, in the ÖVP, even with the liberals, there were positive statements about this intention – let us say it so. Why there has been no decision-making in this regard in the past legislative period is once again the subject of higher political mathematics, for apples have been mixed with pears or unauthorisedly linked. The cultural agreement with Slovenia has something to do with the advisory committees for the Styrian Slovenians, and this has to do with the fact that it is not the respect, preservation and promotion of linguistic and cultural diversity in relation to it. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing of that would have been understandable to the Austrian citizen or the Austrian citizen. The fact is, nothing has happened in this direction. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, my initiative at the beginning of the new legislative period, with the word-identical repetition of this request, here is a sign that the implementation of this issue of importance has not failed at all. In this context, I would just like to say one word: Chief. The key to awareness-raising were the murders of Oberwart and the tragic events during the period of post-bombing in Austria. At that time, the verbal willingness to take seriously the respect, preservation and promotion of cultural diversity, as our proposal now means, was because it often resulted, I say, or almost exclusively from deep concern. In the meantime, a few years have passed, and in the meantime, there has also been some change in the proverbial climate – this has nothing to do with the Federal Chancellor – in this Republic. Now the feelings seem to be spread differently. Ladies and gentlemen! At first reading, we want to give the political groups the opportunity to give them their commitment to respect, preservation and promotion and to protect the linguistic and cultural diversity of the Republic of Austria, and at first reading we want to give them the opportunity to take this step. Ladies and gentlemen! To define multilingualism as a state goal is nothing new. Switzerland has long done this. There are other European countries, however, which, as far as the democratic standard is concerned, are in no way in keeping with Austria. On the contrary! In part, they have already taken such steps. In Switzerland, for example, the basis for this was a positive referendum. At the time, the reason was that Switzerland sees itself as a state of solidarity, so to speak, as a state of self-understanding, and therefore considers four languages in its territory to be self-understanding. Well-marked: four languages! That is – of course, one could say – German, of course French, and also of course – although that does not fit into this series from its number relationship at all – Italian. But even the fourth language, the Romanian, is treated simply and simply the same, no different from the others. I should like to say this again to you, ladies and gentlemen, that is my concern today, and I am already looking forward to the statements made by the other groups. Because here's something that nobody threatens, that doesn't take anything away. It is the opportunity to express that the protection of minorities, by bringing them away from the periphery into the middle, is the way Austria wants to go in connection with its autochthonic minorities.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12125	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12146	Mr President. High house! Mrs Stoisits has already said this: We have already held the debate on the state target in the last legislative period several times. Even if this is more a symbolic act than a factual aid and support, it would still be important. The SPÖ has already made a proposal in this regard, according to which the Republic of Austria has become itself by creating an abstract. 2 to Article 8 of the Federal Constitution on their groups and the ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity resulting from their existence – rather than constitutional protection by the State Basic Law. So we don't have any dissent here at all. It would be the Republic's first constitutional commitment to its ethnic groups, since such a confession by the Republic of Austria has so far been lacking. Confessing the confession is one thing to do something is the other thing. In fact, much has happened in the past to protect minorities. In the last legislative period, the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities has been ratified as the first legally binding multilateral instrument dedicated specifically to the protection of minorities and which provides for reporting on the situation of minorities and also the succession of national legislators. It is a proven instrument for popular promotion as a fact. It was still at 4.4 million schilling in 1988 and now amounts to just over 50 million schilling, while the impact of the financial nature of the minority school law has not yet been taken into account in this number. It has been passed in the last legislative period the Private Radio Act, the two minority-language radios, which are very essential or even indispensable for the development and transfer of language competence, namely radio "Agora-Korotan" and the Burgenland Radio "Mora". So a lot has happened. Nevertheless, there is still much to do. In addition to the above-mentioned State objective, the overall Austrian conference of the chairmen of the People's Advisory Councils should be yanked. Unfortunately, such a conference has failed in the last legislative period, partly also on the dissent of the ethnic groups themselves. It once took place on 8 May. In April 1997, such a conference was held with an encouraging objective and with an encouraging beginning. Unfortunately, this has not been found yet. Unfortunately, the European Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages has not yet been ratified. You can say that, too, self-critically. There are no longer many members of indigenous minorities in Austria. Nevertheless, it is significant how a state deals with its minorities, whether it be autonomous minorities, or new minorities within the framework of migration movements in Europe. There are many encouraging but also many depressing signs. Mrs Stoisits has said that the trigger for raising awareness of this problem was actually the attack of the Lord. Although a single perpetrator was at work here, the question of how the social environment must be created must be allowed to thrive. Therefore, the SPÖ is also a gesture towards minorities for this objective. Although it does not cover the entire minority protection, it is a gesture, and we very much hope that it will be possible to enforce it during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12189	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I can turn to Resi Stoisits. - Where is she hiding? Resi! I have the impression that if I listen to you in this way – and with others I have had similar feelings – you are sorry that the perpetrator has really been caught in matters of upper guard and letter bombs. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, that's what it looks like!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: How do you get such an abstract idea?]] That doesn't fit into the system you built yourself! You live as if you hadn't read newspaper in recent years and didn't hear radio either: It's still the great conspiracy, there's still the Bajuvarian battalions marching there. That this was a spidered single, that doesn't fit in completely! Because for years you – I've been putting that under you, because I've been watching this – have felt you connected to a ghost behind which all possible dark powers are behind which you need to warn and protect the population. But now this is a "poor" – poor under quotation marks – fool, who was alone and was sentenced. Please free yourself from the ghost you've woven yourself into in recent years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I turn to my immediate previous speaker – it's interesting: when the same topic was discussed many months ago, you also talked to me, and the Resi was before us, I think it was about the same order –: I used to talk about "minorities." "minority" is a mathematical term – it is noted in this context. Of course, groups of people are less in mind than the majority population, but the term "minority" has something diminutive in itself. I'd rather use the term "people's group". I don't want to prescribe anything, but I think the people concerned are better off seeing it as "people groups" and not using the expression "minority", which – perhaps also from the past – has something horrendous in itself, for them. The initiative on and for itself is good. It finds the basic consent of the liberals. We have already given everyone together the last time, one after the other, from this speaker's desk to the very best that we assume that this project will find the way into the federal law paper, even if one may have to do so. In principle, however, such a thing is good and should actually be realized. When it comes to what we liberals wish for, I could imagine that we are more clearly talking about the indigenous groups in their native homeland, so that we are not making things so commonplace that everything can be rebuilt again in the future, but that we are thinking of the groups in the political and legal sense we are experiencing in Austria. These indigenous peoples are to find a corresponding anchorage in the Constitution in their native homeland with their rights and with our wish – and promise to work on it – that they will flourish and thrive. In recent years, we have achieved approaches in this direction – in my view, too little. There are groups of people who are good, but there are also groups of people who are not well. The Roma and Sinti are among those who are not well. That's not new either – not from this speaker's mouth or from my mouth. They have a catchup requirement that counts after centuries. They not only have the usual national political problems, they also have a serious social and economic need. Only those who have looked at things on the spot, such as in the surroundings of Oberwart in the respective settlements, who have been in direct contact with and stand, can judge that. There are groups of people living. There are groups of people who are worse, such as the Czechs, who have problems with the Comensky School. There are also those whose reality is not consistent with all the standards we have used to in terms of life and the needs of the peoples of Austria, and to that - I repeat it - the Roma and Sinti belong. We're going to have to get up and see that we're going a little bit further – budget scarcity, savings package. It is also about putting this people's group and their families into a situation that brings more acceptance in their immediate local and human environment. There is no second ethnic group in Austria, which has to fight so much to be treated with dignity as is the case with the Roma and Sinti in their native homelands. If we confess to it – and we all confess to it – that the groups of peoples in Austria should flourish and thrive if we try to help them accordingly – not only with words but also with deeds – then we want to not forget, as I hope everyone else, that this is not a problem that will stop at the borders of the state. It is certainly true that, for example, the Hungarian people's group in Austria should have its sufficient level of rights, but in our view things are also so that the ethnic group of the Altösterreich German tongue should find an appropriate level of rights beyond the border in Hungary. This is not so dramatic in Hungary. There, things on both sides of the border function more or less enough. But there are also other areas in which this is by no means the case. I recall, for example, that there are still 60 000 to 100 000 in the Czech Republic, depending on the number of posts, or, in the opinion of some experts, even 200 000 Old Austrian German tongues, with zero rights, with zero schools, with zero kindergartens, with zero recognition of their language before any authorities, with zero recognition as a ethnic group. It is not much different in Slovakia and not much better, although a little better. It is very bad in Slovenia: There is also the curiousness that, when the new constitution was created after the turn, there was a very balanced concept, a very reasonable draft. In this draft, as groups of people who are recognized and promoted and to be preserved, the Italians, the Hungarians, the Altösterreich German tongues and – which is already surprising – the Roma and Sinti have found themselves with a little less rights. Sometime on the way through the legislation, however, the Altösterreicher German tongue fell out, and only the others remained. What arguments the Slovenian government is now trying to argue with are hardy. For example, that one says that the minority can only look more at the cemeteries and similar, testifies to a cynicism, if one recalls how one has been dealt with these old Austrians at the time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We would like, ladies and gentlemen, or could we imagine – this idea would have to take the form of concrete wishes – that we should set up advisory councils in the medium term, each accepting the problems of the ethnic groups in this respect and beyond a certain border. For example, such a advisory board would be concerned with the problems and rights of the Slovenian People's Group in Austria, and the same advisory board in the same occupation, and therefore, I assume, with the same requirements, would perceive the problems and rights of the ethnic group of the Old Austrian German tongue in Slovenia. For the other borders with the other states, this could work equally so that a balance can be established in this sector, because also popular law cannot be or remain a one-way road. We Austrians are proud that we are very positive about our groups that we are trying to make them thrive in what they need. In the long run, however, we cannot see that this is not a response to our process from beyond the border. We also wish – and I call on those responsible, the Chancellor and, above all, the Foreign Minister – to work on it – that at last progress is made in the design of a European People's Group right, which ensures a minimum level of rights for the groups of indigenous people in all European countries. It must be a enforceable law – not a patch of paper – which ensures a certain minimum level. It must not be like the French who say: There are no groups of people with us, there are no members of the groups, there are only French. This is, as it were, the lowest level. This right must in fact create a uniform minimum level, and it must be enforceable accordingly. There are so many other things on the European parquet that can easily be enforced. The rights of the ethnic groups should not be excluded here. These are thoughts that come to you when it comes once again to the issue of state objectives in relation to the ethnic groups in Austria. We liberals – I repeat – want this path to continue. We hope that it will succeed in achieving a positive conclusion. Our hand should not be missing in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12276	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12297	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a coincidence that I am able to hold my second virgin speech here in Parliament on a subject that is always at my heart personally, not as a theorist, but rather as a practitioner of the People's Group Policy in my role as head of state of Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very well to Mr Stoisits, who I would also like to say a very friendly ‘Dobar vecer’, and I believe that if one is so simple, there would actually be no reason to have long discussions on the subject. If this proposal states that the Republic of Austria confesses itself to its growing linguistic and cultural diversity, this diversity must be respected, preserved, promoted and protected, then it is not surprising if there is great harmony in this House, for who could vote against such a request? Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, however, that we need to discuss this issue with a lot of seriousness and seriosity, too. That is why, Mr Dr. Ofner, I believe that although it is quite legitimate and legitimate, the discussion may not be appropriate if one makes a completely autonomous decision by the Austrian National Council, at least in one speech, depending on decisions in our neighbourhood in other countries. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You misunderstand me! I may have been misinterpreted. Not dependent, but autonomous, but it can't be a one-way road in the long run!]] - Okay. I think this is a decision we have to make here. I believe that this applies to a country that already has to take note that this growing diversity is an essential part of the identity of this Austria and that this diversity is also an unmistakable element of the Austrian nation, something we should always be aware of. I believe that this harmony is also justified because this commitment is also reflected in the daily active and practical community policy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we still have to discuss very serious and serious is that a state objective is a positive definition of our federal constitution, which ultimately also has a binding effect and which will have very concrete effects on both legal projects and execution. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we should not forget to point out that, I hope, we have the same starting position, namely that, as the target groups of this provision, we see those indigenous groups in Austria, which actually exist as growing and not growing minorities in our country. We know that this definition, if it is done in this form, affects around 60 000 citizens in our country, according to the People's Group Report, but that in Austria we are sure to record the tenfold number of citizens of foreign minorities. However, I would like to prevent this discussion from being mixed and mixed with discussions on immigration policy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important and necessary to ask very serious questions in this context in the Committee, such as the following – and our third President, who has so far been working on this subject accordingly from our side, will also be prepared to discuss them very seriously –: What groups of people should in fact be covered by such a provision? Should emerging minorities also be covered? – For it is now the case under international law that a group of people is defined as an autochthon after about three generations and can thus arise. Are there organizational or financial needs that arise in addition from such a state objective? Should the countries most likely to be affected in this context also be included in this discussion? And much more would have to be considered. I think that this makes the topic a little more differentiated in space and it is not to be qualified as a no-na! question. In any case, we will have such a discussion on our part with all seriousness and seriousness, and, of course, we will be aware that all of us here in this House are surely in agreement with the basic need underlying this request. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12341	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12362	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can already support the basic direction of this request for amendment of Article 8 of the Federal Constitutional Act insofar as the SPÖ, as is generally known, had made a similar request during the previous legislative period. This request was also presented to the public during the previous legislative period, but was no longer submitted for known reasons. According to our proposal, the new wording would read as follows: The Republic of Austria acknowledges its peoples and the linguistic and cultural diversity resulting from their existence. – I think it would be quite appropriate at the threshold to the next millennium that the Republic of Austria, in this explicit form, confess itself in a central part of the federal constitution to its peoples. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] On official occasions and celebrations, representatives of the Republic often emphasize the importance of the Austrian ethnic groups for the identity of our state. Many organisations of the ethnic groups have also called for a corresponding government target in recent years. For example, the Memorandum of Understanding of the Austrian People's Groups, drawn up by representative representatives of all Austrian groups, called for the adoption in 1997 of a constitutional objective, which is to include a commitment by the Republic of Austria to its historical cultural, linguistic and ethnic diversity. I think it is important that the word "people's groups" be explicitly used in such a formulation, as this term is clearly defined in the People's Group Law. To that end, I think that the Greens' request, as I have said, is good and correct from the basic point of view, but not in its concrete wording. However, we do not need to talk in detail here in the first reading, but this is reserved for the Committee. As a citizen, I think that the peaceful living together of various linguistic groups and groups is very important. In addition to the majority of the German-speaking population in Burgenland, we have also accommodated the Croatian and Hungarian groups as well as the Roma ethnic group. Even if something can still be improved, you can generally say that living together with us in the Burgenland works well. But if we look beyond the borders and make events of recent years happen in Europe, we see how much unhappiness and suffering can cause the spirit of nationalism and intolerance. That is why I am in favour of us in Austria pursuing a modern ethnic group policy, which should be a conscious counterpoint to the transformation of various forms of nationalism. We must be aware that our peoples are an enrichment of our society and that it is important to maintain these groups. For me, it is important that interethnic contacts and projects be promoted and that the individual groups are not separated from the majority population but deliberately integrated into society. A real co-operation is necessary and not a mutual one, but also not a conciliatory one. In this sense, my party has long called for an improvement in the representation and expression possibilities of the ethnic groups, in particular the upgrading of the national councils by extending their competences and improving their functioning. For as praiseworthy as it may be to introduce into the Constitution a state target for the ethnic groups, so it would be also important to develop the People's Group Law in concrete terms. Although this law has proved itself in principle since 1975, it could be adapted in some respects to the requirements of today's times. As mentioned above, it seems to me particularly necessary to upgrade the national councils. Because the action often heard by the representatives of the ethnic groups is that decisions of the national councils are not taken seriously enough by the addressees. In the last legislative period, there have already been proposals from our side, how this could be resolved and how the decisions of the national councils could be given a higher weight. Another weakness of the existing People's Group Act is that it contains provisions that are only conditionally suitable for the Roma's People's Group. Thus, the composition of the appropriate national advisory council of an emergency construction had to be used. Finally, I would like to express the hope that in the next legislative period, it will be possible to make progress in the legislation for the groups. When we set accents on a modern group policy, we also set signs against nationalism and a democratic, tolerant and humane society.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12408	No one is reporting on this. That is why I am closing this debate. I agree with Amendment No 13/A to the Committee on Human Rights. The agenda is exhausted. I would ask you to note that, as you know, after the end of this meeting, which we will come to after a few brief messages, the constitution of the Austrian Interparliamentary Union Group will take place. It'll take about 2 minutes. Then a short assignment meeting will be held. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12447	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-11-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00002_d7e12724	In addition, I also announce that self-employed requests 17/A to 46/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 30/J to 76/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, is scheduled to be convened at 7.05 a.m. – possibly one or two minutes before. For 19 o'clock, I convene the constituent meeting of the Austrian Interparliamentary Union Group in this Chamber. The sitting is closed.
