ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2278	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 182. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 180. Meeting of 14. It is therefore deemed to have been approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Wenitsch and Applebeck. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2312	The one by Johannes Zweytick, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Ing. Monika Langthaler, Mag. Helmut Peter and comrades brought in I agree with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's proposal on the revision of the Waste Management Act, 1182/A. The Government template: The European Convention on the Main Lines of International Rail Transport, and the Annexes, I shall be assigning them to the Transport Committee. - You're going to show up in the files there. I also announce that the answers to the question have been received by 5966/AB until 5971/AB. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2351	I have the proposal to sum up points 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 to 16, 17 and 18, 20 and 21 as well as 22 and 23 of the agenda today. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2378	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the Duration of debates as follows: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The National Council has to decide on this. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That is what the National Council has decided. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1768 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends the Parental Law 1979, the Parental Pension Law, the Karenzgeldsgesetz, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, and the Karenzpruitsgeldsgesetz, and on motion 502/A by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Parental Vacation Act (EKUG); and on the application 504/A by Mr Karl Öllinger and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Karenzlaubungssatzgesetz (KUZUG) and the Karenzgeldsgesetz (KGG) (2000 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2440	We come to the joint debate on points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. I do not have proposals for oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. Mrs Edith Haller is the first double-redner to be mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2470	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not know if you, Mrs Federal Minister, have noticed that the Liberal Group in the Committee on Social Affairs has always – I stress: always! – is fully present and also very hard to cooperate. The main reason for this is that we in the Committee are able to obtain various information to which we would otherwise have no access. Therefore, I do not think it is right if, in connection with our extract from the Committee's last meeting, we are accused of having done so because we had not been sufficiently prepared. The reason for this is that 31 agenda items have been incorporated into an agenda and that 64 amendments have been tabled in the short term. I am a parliamentarian – I really want to say that – in this process. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schaffenrath.]] Now, on the matter itself, to change the pay-as-you-go schemes. In the previous year, much was done about the so-called small family package – part of it is included in the presentation to be treated now. Above all, however, I must say that an EU directive is being implemented for the child's father's own entitlement to care. Why "end"? – A transitional period of two years has already been granted to us in this area, and we have then overrun by more than a year. It has required a request from the opposition, Mr Oillinger, to finally implement this matter into a bill, and that is why this coalition government does not need to be put on the hat either. In the same way, the second regulation in this package, which we will vote in favour - we will call for separate vote - concerns Mrs Oillinger's motion for a resolution 504/A, which is about the possibility of paying the increased karenz money to mothers who cannot or do not want to mention the name of the child father. As I said, For us there is a lot of criticism as a whole, namely: The Karenz money scheme, which is to be decided here today, makes the whole matter much more complicated and complex. In our view, a rewording of the whole matter would be essential. A proof that it is necessary: It has been referred to as "carence leave allowance" again, and it is already known today that a change will soon be necessary again. This new regulation will also create a huge burden and difficulties for the economy, especially for small businesses. A overlap of one month in this more flexible arrangement seems to us to be too short. Furthermore, I would like to mention that as a very negative one, there is no division if one of the two partners is self-employed. Why are self-employed discriminated against in this context? There is also no obligation to inform the service provider of any leftovers, I think, of the fact that this is particularly bad for the settlement. How is that supposed to work in practice? It has been made very much noise to almost nothing; the actual improvements are very small. I would like to stress once again that this package is an unacceptable burden on the economy as a whole, and I understand the EIA very hard in this regard, because – now it concerns those concerned – this regulation could become a shot at the back for those affected by its complexity – I am really afraid of that! – because the recruitment of new substitutes is significantly complicated. Now to Amendment 935/A (E), tabled by Mrs Madl by the Liberal and Democratic Group, which deals with a better calculation of the merit of service, all of which is worthy, during the karenz period. This proposal is not new, it is already being discussed for the fifth time. I can tell you when we have already decided on this – he was rejected every time – on 19 November. ==References== ==References== ==References== October 1998 in this plenary! The proposal has been repeatedly rejected, last time with the "foundation" that our variant would not improve our proposal. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll tell you: That's not right! This has also been admitted to me – I quote from the explanatory statement –: The proposal would mean that a reduction in the amount of benefit would not occur even in the case of temporary employment, that, if the amount of the allowance was close to the limit, a significantly lower reduction in the amount of the benefit would be achieved. Further improvements: In the case of average earnings in a few months, there would be to be noticeably fewer reductions in the amount of cardiac benefits. Exorbitant high earnings would not be as preferred as before. The billing – which I believe is crucial – could take place once after the end of the entire karenz-time relationship. This would result in far less effort for those concerned, it would be more transparent for them – and, of course, for the administration. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Committee's assessment has been made against better knowledge, because it is not about opening up new opportunities, but about keeping the cuts in the amount of pay. You have indeed made this committee statement against better knowledge – you know it exactly – simply because once again you have not been able or wanted to agree to a request from the liberals, so it is justified. There is nothing more to be said about this!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2553	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haller, I can confirm to you that in the Committee on Social Affairs your group is always present and that you are also very, very, very serious. But I must also say that I have tried to propose compromises to you before you left the last sitting. But I already have so much negotiation experience to realize that someone wants to hear nothing from a compromise, because he has already set himself on a course from the outset. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haller and Mr Mag. Peter.]] I still regret that you were not present. A twelve-hour committee meeting and the discussion of a perhaps remaining rest of the agenda a few days later would have been better for me than for your extract to be said here. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've had four years!]] I really tried, and I would have been willing to negotiate with you – with open end. I'd like to address the matter myself now. Two objectives that are being met are particularly important to me, first of all to adapt to the EU's parental leave directive. This was achieved by the EU's social partners – I will come back to the role of the social partners later – and with this we – second – correspond to a point of the 1998 National Employment Action Plan: Facilitating the return to working life. I would like to mention at least the main points of this amendment, which are not high enough new ones to be estimated. A number of applications have been completed. I would choose the saying reverse: little noise at a lot! Some points: the creation of an independent right to karenz for the father, the introduction of more flexible reporting periods, the right of selected employees to information on important business events, the creation of the possibility of sharing between mother and father twice, the possibility of taking care of the first change of caregiver Karenz for the duration of a month at the same time, and the possibility of a three-month delay until the child's entry into school. The child father’s independent claim, if the child’s mother has no claim – however, via an insurance benefit – will again reduce the number of those who do not have benefit or part-time entitlements. This is what you should think of in the demand for "carry money for all", which the Social Democrats cannot contribute for the reasons already known. I also see very positively this one month, which both partners can go together in Karenz – but that does not mean an extension of the karenz period. Why, I mean, is that so important? – Because there is a lot of uncertainty in dealing with a young child – especially in young mothers, but also in young fathers – and children of such an early age have problems in changing the main subject. In connection with the right to information on important business events, ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to mention once again the objective of facilitating the return to working life. I would like to focus briefly on Mrs Madl's request on the practical limitation of secondary incomes in the field of insurance. We forget that when someone makes a few days' pay billing, for example, at the end of the month, there has been much improvement. This improvement was initially temporary, but is now unlimited. There is also the possibility of part-time leave. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must not lose sight of the fact that there is a pension fund for the loss of income if, on the grounds of childcare and care, one cannot be employed or fully employed. A level of work, as envisaged in Mrs Madl's request, would no longer ensure the overwhelming care and care of a small child. "Karenz" instead of "Carence leave": Caring for and caring for a grandchild is, ladies and gentlemen – we have always said that – not a holiday, but a great challenge. For the time being, there is only one committee, because linguistic adjustment takes a lot of time in all the laws and regulations. But I am very glad that this will come now, because "carence leave" always sounds like you're lying in the sun and you shouldn't have to worry about anything. I regret the discussion on "carry money for all". It is actually contrary to the objective of enabling women to return to work. Ladies and gentlemen! If money is already available, you can use the FLAF money for needy and single-parents – you will certainly have us as a partner. Let us at least give at least 6 000 s of carcass money, and let us extend the duration of the karenz to two years! [[Abg. Steibl: For everyone! Two years for everyone!]] But let us think of the principle of insurance. It should not be justament, ladies and gentlemen! Who else is to be included in the pot of solidarity, if that is the case? At some point, the solidarity of those who pay contributions will be too strong, and I am curious to see where you then take the funds for family and social benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But that's not what the workers pay!]] – I know your excitement is also a bit artificial. You can speak here. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's not an excitement, that's a correct position!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Also the men pay from the housewives!]] Today we have good social laws to adopt, but I am still very disappointed, because today the "Action Fairness", namely the equal treatment of workers and employees, should also be on the agenda. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Until yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, there were tough negotiations. Despite the statement from both sides that this was an important concern that workers should finally come to the same rights as employees, there was no result to be achieved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Other hard-pressed workers' rights should be abandoned. We cannot and must not allow what the economy is calling for in this context. I say the following to you: As far as the EU social partnership with regard to parental care has succeeded, our social partners should be very successful in eliminating these pre-influenced differences, because you are not ready to negotiate without the social partners – Mr Khol said very clearly yesterday. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] But please, ladies and gentlemen, this is once again an attempt by the economy to be able to buy out any positive change. We will not allow this, but in order to prove this just said, I quote from yesterday's press release by President Maderthaner: The Chamber of Commerce insists on sustainable relief of businesses in the event of equality between workers and employees. - Quote. They do not fear an additional burden on businesses and defend themselves against it – no! – they want a sustainable burden on businesses, i.e. an "action fairness" for entrepreneurs, but not for employees! We can't let that happen!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2700	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2722	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to talk about my request, which has a practical calculation period during the karenz period. According to the legal situation currently in force, it is such that, in addition to the amount of the pension, a minor income may be obtained monthly without losing the amount of the pension or risking a reduction in the same amount. The aim of this request is to ensure that, in practice, there are several establishments in which one says that a woman is able to continue her training during the leave period, so that she can continue her training, or if she wants to get back into the profession after the leave period, we can afford to continue to employ them in part-time, i.e. ten hours or five hours a week, so that she does not lose her connection with the employer and is always up-to-date. But there are also farms that cannot do that. For example, it is only possible for a woman in Karenz to make holiday representations during a three - week period or, if someone gets sick, to jump in as a replacement. In this way too, she does not lose contact with her company. However, it is currently true that this woman, who is in Karenz when her by-service exceeds the limit of low-quality, is punished for having the chance to return to the holding without having to return to the holding any time after the end of the karenz period. I therefore find it incomprehensible that the Committee's report is that the main focus is on the education and care of the child and that only secondary incomes are approved. If by-catches are approved, it is completely incomprehensible – for me and for the liberals – why you cannot say: In addition, if these are allowed, I can also divide them over the duration of the leave. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So if it is allowed to earn a certain sum – if I now count it as a sum within one and a half years – within one and a half years, I ask: Why should we limit this time, so that monthly only so much is allowed and what goes beyond that is punished? Ladies and gentlemen! I'd really think about it. It does not matter at all, but it would only be a minor change, and this would help a lot of women, namely those, as I said, who continue to work for two or three weeks once or perhaps twice a year without being punished for it. Another word on the government template. I believe that this government template is designed to make it even harder for women to get qualified jobs. If today one can divide the time of leave for seven years, it may be possible in large businesses to keep this time of leave in evidence for seven years, but for the many small and most small-structured farms it is impossible to keep someone in evidence for seven years until he finally claims his leave. It is quite the same as in the work contract scheme: The work contract system was decided here in the House and it was renewed in the same year because of the fact that it contains provisions which are impracticable and absurd. It will also be with this bill. It would have been better to concentrate, ladies and gentlemen, on introducing child care check throughout the country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That would have been something the women want. Every woman you ask is for the babysitting check. But you will introduce rules that will still disadvantage women at work in the future. You have to do what the women want, and not what you want to put your eyes on them! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The childcare check – introduced throughout the country – would be not only for women who can choose whether they want to stay with the family and home for childcare, but also for those women who want to continue working and can then co-finance childcare with the childcare check. That would have been the solution for women and also for families! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] You are unabated by the ÖVP, but when it comes to the vote on the childcare check, you are against it. The motto of the Social Democrats – I know that – is: From the cradle to the Bahre in state administration! - That's your ideology. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Our ideology is this: The woman will be able to choose whether to stay at home and care for her child herself or whether she will continue to be employed and child care will be financed by the child care check. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In this sense: Perhaps you will consider it again and agree to our request for a babysitting check, which we will make later.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2797	Next speaker is Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2819	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Two handfuls of luck: It's a baby when it comes to the world. But this baby not only brings happiness and joy, but also changes the lives of women. 39 percent of women say, according to a survey of a German magazine, that they have not been able to imagine how much a infant, a baby, would change their lives. – That’s why advertising is also true: "I'm the boss!" "I'm the boss," because that's the reality with a little kid. This child needs full attention and love, but above all it also needs care and supervision around the clock. That is why this government template is a step in the direction of improvement. I think it is positive and also an adaptation to EU law, because there will be an independent claim for fathers in the future. However, I would like to point out that it is important that mothers should always remain the first claimants. This is something you need to remove. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fathers' involvement in the family is an important point. I mean, you should try to live there more partnership. It is still a small percentage: Only 1.6% of the karenz age is used by men. I think you have to light this up. If one takes into account that 44 percent of these men are unemployed, one must relativize this number and say: In fact, there is still a lot of rethinking needs. In my opinion, the partnership of the father is not only a question of relief for the woman, but, in fact, it is an opportunity for men to establish and benefit from a good relationship with their children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Significant improvements are undoubtedly also the flexible regulation of the reporting periods and the flexibility of the part-time care. I also think that keeping the new offer to the parents, three months from the leave of the child to the start of school, is a good new opportunity for parents. However, I would like to refer to Mr Madl's statement here. This must also be agreed with the employer. I believe that this is an important point – and this is also the subject of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important that the adoption and care parents should be better informed, which is also true of the karenz time account. I would like to say something in your direction, Mrs Haller. They have highly criticised the fact that in the future, women, especially women, will need to be informed about important changes in the workplace. They know that it was very important for women to receive important information in order to stay in touch with the farm, especially in the context of the discussion on women's desire for women. I believe that this new regulation, along with the possibility of making leave representations during the karenz period, is a very, very important point. That's what we're standing for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I do not want to hide that there are two points which I regret. We have been talking here in the House for many years now about saying "caravan time" and "caravan's money". I am sorry that the government's proposal still speaks of "carence leave" and "carence leave allowance" over and over again. As an ÖVP politician, however, I am particularly sorry that this important law, with which we change the karenz regulations, has not been able to implement the "carnation money for all". It is true that, you know, you may not be able to hear it anymore, Mrs. Mertel – students, housewives and farmers, as well as self-employed women, are excluded from the insurance cover. This creates a two-class society. They know that the karenz money has long since become a family benefit. It should not be seen that women are still divided in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the SPÖ is speaking of an "ideological corset" in connection with this important requirement for the ÖVP: It is they who put on the women of this corset and force the women of this corset. We want women to have the freedom of choice to choose their family or profession. We know how important it is for family and work to be compatible, but we want women's freedom of choice to be absolutely the priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You must also be able to afford it!]] I know that women's policy is not family policy, but I would like to thank Mr Bartenstein very much in this context, because good family policy always helps women. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] I believe that the family tax reform with the planned 6 000 s more per child per year is an essential aid to women. We must put the children at the centre of our policy. I mean, that's something we have to confess to, because just as we're dealing with our children today, tomorrow's world will look.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2900	Mrs Haller has made a statement on an actual correction. Please comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2925	Mr President. High house! Mr Gatterer has claimed that I would have criticised the fact that in the future, businesses should inform their pensioners better. – That's wrong. I note that I have criticized the following: I have criticized the fact that there is no obligation to provide information to the service provider in the event of a new job or in the event of a change in the job, if there are still leftovers. I have also criticised the fact that the recruitment of replacements is made considerably more difficult, because: Who receives replacements for three months?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2955	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e2976	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is a question of the credibility of social policy if you are sitting in a coalition for 13 years and the fact that a political group on the last plenary day before the elections is infecting posters with the title: Action Fairness. For years, you would have it for years! – had time. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: May I offer this to you? Do you want it?]] We have been representing this for many years, and if we were in the government, we would have already implemented it for a long time. That's the little difference. Mrs Mertel, you can give me one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am convinced that... – Thank you very much. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel surrenders Abg. Gaugg a plaque with the inscription "ÖGB – Action Fairness", which is attached to his sacco.]] If you had done it, it would have been better for me. [[Abg. Leikam: This is a Carinthian issue!]] - That's not a Carinthian matter. This is an Austrian matter, especially for women. Apparently you have the wrong partner. After 13 years, you still don't get on it and now, before the elections, create a little saber race, but after the elections, you'll be back in a coalition together, which will tell us again in four years what it hasn't brought on; the one is the "action fairness", the other the "carence money for all". I ask you from this point of view: Why didn't you implement it? Or live by the foreign exchange: Once you get into government responsibility, you'll implement it? – In reality, credibility is on the zero, because social policy has had to be subordinated to capital in recent years – why, indeed, it is merciless! You can even make the observation of how companies join together at international level – always at the expense of employees! Here in Austria, we have been tried for many years to agree that we already have the best social laws in the world. Interestingly, it's calculated. Mrs. Gatterer down here and says: Actually, what we are now implementing as an EU directive is a significant improvement in what we have had up to now. That's what I'm asking myself: Did you really sell people in this country, especially the workers, for stupid in recent years? I have the feeling that, in various areas, including the question of the implementation of the Fairness Action, we are in the final analysis. Or: In recent years, they have brought it "together" that pensions have only increased modestly, which has gone down to pension cuts. You've shortened the karenz time. Getting Now Before the Elections You and you say that you should actually extend the karenz period again. – There is no credibility in this respect. You have had to spend billions on employment in Austria, which you must continue to do because of your missing social policy. For if the economy were to work as it should be, it would not be necessary to grant billions of subsidies in order to eventually buy jobs. That is, I would say, a serious disappointment that you leave to work together because of your 13 years. Or: Against small changes that do not significantly change the budget, you will be locked for months if not for years. There is a request that mothers, who do not mention the name of their child's father – for whatever reason – should also use increased care money. For months it is blocked – for months! – until you reach the typewriter yourself and mean: Now we're gonna do this. Mr Feurstein! Let me tell you the following: They are one of the largest brakers of social legislation in Austria. One of the biggest brakers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There will really be a benefit if there will perhaps be a person with a social conscience in the ÖVP who is committed to these interests. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Head.]] Mr. Head! I'll tell you one thing – you don't know what's happening there; They do not deal with this as an industrial –: For months, this application will be left out. The SPÖ just doesn't agree with us because it can't help out of coalition loyalty. I always hear the word "coalition fidelity". In fact, you are a prevention division: the one in the question of "carry money for all", the other in the "Action Fairness". Now I'm wondering, What else do you do together, except to prevent here and ultimately to inhibit the work? Or: "Care money for all." Let us discuss the children's check in this context! The EIA should put this into practice in Parliament, for which it is always in the public. They apply for the Children's Check in Tirol with the head of state, not with 5 700 S, but with 6 000 S. – Exactly! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They can be photographed with children!]] They can be photographed with children. But when it comes to implementation, nothing happens. You'd have the opportunity to do this. The introduction of the children's check would be a relief for mothers and ultimately also a prevention of low-cost jobs in Austria. Many women today do not go to work for reasons of fulfillment or self-realization, but because they are ultimately forced to pursue a low-income activity that is human - from time and income. You should write that behind your ears once and not constantly invent some things a few weeks before elections, for which you had had time for decades to implement them!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3069	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3090	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Big throw is none of this government template. So I have to keep that quite clear. I think it is rather the smallest common denominator that an ÖVP and a SPÖ create when women's issues are discussed. It has already surprised me, Mrs Reitsamer and Mrs Gatterer, that you have welcomed this committee statement or that you are glad that it is now at least clear that the term 'duration' should at last disappear from our laws. Have you forgotten that there is a request from the Liberals who have been behind for more than four years and who have found the approval of all the parties in this House? In four years we were unable to get this treacherous word "duration" when it comes to childcare out of the law. If you still write in "in the short of time it was unfortunately not possible...", I ask: How long does this coalition take to bring about changes in terms of legislation if four years are not enough? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that it is not a big throw, but that, as it were, under the external pressure of an EU directive, which was to be transposed, it has finally succeeded in asserting the independent right to leave for fathers is a fact – that is why Mr Haller is right. That already in the NAP the requirement is to facilitate the return from the karence to working life is also correct. Only: With the information requirement of the enterprises alone you will not be able to reach much. We need a much greater degree of flexibility. In particular, we need conditions under which neither the father nor the mother must leave working life completely. Due to a flexible design of income-dependent karence over a longer period of time, both should be able to share the care work and at least remain in part in the working life. I mean, this is simply a very modest result, especially if one remembers the objectives of women's popular desire. We don't have two years' care for single parents. [[Abg. Steibl: For everyone, Mrs Colleague!]] A very modest result, when one remembers, with what great mood after the advance of the liberals from SPÖ-side last summer the income-dependent karenz money at least was propagated in the media. So everything in all the small adjustments that can be supported, but from real solutions far away. It is sad that we do not come to any larger solutions, because, especially in the coalition of ÖVP and SPÖ, the party tactics are just in the foreground. Now, in election times, I almost want to say, it becomes quite clear. Just in time, in the "standard" of today, the Minister of Women speaks, which means that an independent pension for women would be very important. I share this opinion, because that is a demand of the Liberals. In the past, however, the Minister for Women did nothing, nothing at all. Now she says at once that it cannot be that we are always talking about the countries and communities when it comes to childcare places in that country. There's a missing 140,000. Here in plenary, the Minister of Women, as I mean, five times and ten times, said that this could not be turned on to the Confederation, that the communities were responsible for it. These are really spontaneous election-based changes in opinion, which are supposed to leave women in the belief that there is something going on in this regard on the SPÖ side. What makes the problem even more clear is that, on the same side of the "Standard", Mr Bartenstein, Mr. Family Minister, he will at least remain with "carnation money for all"; the introduction of a right to part-time work, a demand from SPÖ, is not at all a good idea. Thus, we already know what women will have to expect in the next legislative period – the continuation of this great coalition will unfortunately not be spared us, it is at least preprogrammed. There will be many announcements from both sides and many promises, but they will not be implemented for women. As ÖVP-Zeit once again referred to this "karenz money for all", I would like to say: Mrs Gatterer! This is a very dangerous issue. Of course, this "carry money for all" ultimately means the introduction of the babysitting check, promoted by the liberal group, through the back door. I have already pointed out to the Minister for Family Affairs that, according to an APA issue, he was a member of the APA. In May 1999, "education money for all" and also that money should be paid for childcare, the amount of which should be replaced by different other social benefits. But when he saw that he was moving into the anti-female philanthropies of the liberals, he gave the child a different name and called "carence money for all" as a new slogan. That's a fact. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is right when it says that Bartenstein has moved to its line. That is a fact. For child care check also the following: We know, of course, that this babysitting check does not only have the chocolate side you are constantly promoting. We also know that the social pressure on the woman to care for the child herself is increasing because she is getting money for it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is also good for the child!]] Yes, it may be good for the child and bad for the women. Children also have fathers, you just shouldn't forget that. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Of course, the pressure towards the extension of childcare facilities will decrease immediately, because at least every mother or perhaps the father gets money for childcare. And, of course, child care costs in institutions will increase immediately, because appropriate financial resources will be provided for childcare. That is something quite dangerous and, in fact, deeply hostile to women. In fact, Mr Bartenstein has already been out of the way. He called for this – with the demand for "carry money for all" he gave the child a different name – which the liberal group – whose female political profile I know – has already discussed before. Above all, there is another German Chancellor climate, who at all does not know how to position himself to the karenz, who once wants karenz for all, then "carence for all those who need it". Since last summer, since the liberals demanded the income-dependent karenz money, he also believes that the income-dependent karenz money is good. The whole thing is still garnished with the intention of Mrs Social Minister to introduce the possibility of "Oma-Karenz". Not even you, Mrs Mertel, have distanced yourself from that. That was the only approach I could ever see between Klubobmann Khol and a social democrat on women's issues. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The fact that grandmothers should also care for children has already called for Klubobmann Khol. In this dilemma, we are and really are not going on. And then here we have a social-democratic group, which brings in one of the last plenary sessions of own-initiative proposals, in which, for example, two years' absence for single-parents is demanded, knowing – and I pointed out to you at that time – that these applications will no longer be voted. That really shakes Their credibility in women's issues, which in any case is only more rudimentary, if at all, even further. Then there is a German Chancellor's climate, which has announced by APA in the context of the special meeting required by the Liberals: Two years of karenz time for single-schoolers. In any case, he will present this to his coalition partner. There are many requests from the opposition – and that is what I am talking about, in particular, the Liberals and the Greens – which were simply rejected in the course of the treatment of the women's people's desire, for party-tactical reasons. Flexibility of the karenz period: This request was made last year, but was rejected by SPÖ. The same thing happened to many other applications. As the ÖVP has just argued so vehemently: What about the poor students? Since autumn last year, Mr Gatterer, there has been a comprehensive request from the Liberals for karence, which also takes this issue into account, in the National Council, and it is being treated here as a hot potato. It was initially not assigned to the Committee for a long time, then it was postponed, and finally it was assigned to another committee, the Social Committee. I don't know if you looked at the request. It also includes, of course, an extension of the circle of stakeholders. But also in this case, the EIA cannot decide to make a clear commitment to color. This dual strategy by ÖVP and SPÖ is becoming increasingly obvious. You damage your credibility if you organize such games and if you don't even have the courage to say quite clear demands that cover with yours, and the corresponding requests yes or no. On the one hand, this concerns two years' karenz for single-parents and on the other, the extension of the interlocutor circle to students, self-employed. They are pushing such applications back and forth. For example, look at how many years Mr Oellinger's requests have been pushed from one corner to another! You do not trust to say no – I say that in particular towards the SPÖ – because otherwise, the woman-friendly facade that you build in the media would simply collapse. Now let's give SPÖ another chance. We will also give you the opportunity to live up to this plaque that you wear today and insist on the "fairness" by extending this fairness to another area, namely to the single parents. Fairness for single parents means for us: two years of care for single parents. This was deleted in the course of the savings package in 1995. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It was the German Chancellor climate itself who said: I feel that it is deeply unfair for women, single women, not to be able to obtain benefits for two years. He finds this to be deeply unfair! We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would mean that single parents have a right to two years' pay-as-you-go, and that would be fair, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. This would be a fair treatment for those women who already have problems, which according to poverty report are among those who are most affected by poverty that must be a child's father and mother. Col. Gatterer says that a child needs all love and care and takes the life of a woman so full. What's the single parent doing? – Unfortunately, I can't do it quite, because I also have experiences with four children, and of course you can do everything a bit... – But let's do that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] What about the child of a single parent who can only be cared for by a close relative for a year and a half? What about this kid? Is this child worth less than a child whose father and mother live in a community? Single women raise children under the most difficult conditions, and I think it is absolutely unfair and unfair to make life more difficult for these women in particular. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Now you can show how seriously you mean it. You have no longer put your own request to the vote. We would like to support you. And if this plaque is not to come to the farce with the title "Action Fairness"... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You can also get a sticker!]] No, thank you, I support this, although our opinions continue. It can only be said of "fair" if officials have the same right to work as workers and employees. But your trade union is not as initiative as there are other structures. In any case: "Fair" is only when the single parents are treated fairly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3229	Mrs Schaffenrath's request has been properly submitted and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3253	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by making a few introductory remarks on the Committee's work, because we did not take part in it for certain reasons. [[Abg. Koppler: Oillinger wears the sticker! Bravo!]] I would like to explain these reasons to you briefly, because they can also be demonstrated on the subject of this item on the agenda. We decide to bring about some improvements for women, several novels in the field of mother protection law, parent-carence leave law, karenz money law, unemployment insurance law and karenz leave money law. Five laws are necessary to carry out a few small things – not the big improvements or the big throw. Ladies and gentlemen! We should actually decide a sixth law – that is necessary! – I would suggest the "Karenzadvisors' Act", because, through the very complex networking of the various legislative instruments, in order to bring these small changes on the road, these laws are certainly no longer legible for those for whom they are made. Who else can understand?- Oh, my God! There are many exceptions which refer to other provisions in other laws. People who want to make these demands can no longer understand them! [[Abg. Koppler: You can get advice!]] I say to you, Mr Koppler, that the advisory effort will certainly increase. Only: Who's making the consultation? Who offers advice on these questions? [[Abg. Koppler: The Chambers of Workers!]] - Good, the workers' chamber. But this cannot be the sense that each time a few small improvements are made, the advisory effort increases immensely. A law should be designed in such a way that those who are concerned – in the present case primarily the women, but also some more also the men – can read it and understand it and then know what it is all about. – But this is the case with No longer possible laws or revisions. That was a reason for our departure from committee. There are also many other reasons to suggest. This is not just about amendments that were tabled at the last minute and which no one of us could read and work through here, including you. If you are honest, no one could do so if the amendment came in at 9.59 a.m. and the Committee meeting began at 10 a.m. This is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] But that's not the only reason next to the one already mentioned. What I wanted to draw attention to, and now I want to draw attention to, is that it is about something else: It is a question, not of this law, but of the others that we still want to decide, that the parliamentarians who are supposed to consult or decide on these laws in committee can no longer avail themselves of their fundamental right to the public. The public, the possibility to also inform interest groups, to be able to consult with them, is no longer given. And by abuse of the right of Members to own-initiative applications by ministries, a very essential requirement for legislation is eliminated. This is a classic abuse of the instrument's own-initiative proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I have come to the law now, ladies and gentlemen, and above all I would like to regret Mr Khol and Mr Feurstein, because this law has also brought about, among other things, what they have always warned of: The fatherless society is there, because the fatherless society, because women who cannot or do not want to call the name of the child father, are also entitled to the increased care allowance. This is a request from the Greens, since I refer once again to what I said earlier, which has been in committee for two years, has been discussed over and over again, on which requests for deadlines have been made, but it has not been decided. I only notice: A coalition discipline, Mr Khol, cannot put the chancellor in the house here, but obviously it can force the fatherless society for you. That's interesting, too. When it comes to fundamental questions, as is obvious in the case of fatherless society, you are quite prepared to make compromises, but where it is a matter of bringing the chancellors to a debate, you are not willing to pursue your own interests as well and to request this opportunity from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still a lot to be said about these laws, which we decide here – for example, that the right to part-time work still lacks – but it is not about the details in this law, although that is not a small detail, but it is essentially about the fact that, as I believe, the debate on the karenz money has been completely debated over the last few months, through the frontal position – on the one hand, "carer money for all", on the other hand, "carence money for those who need it" – it is also completely proceeding because the framework conditions have been overlooked. It has been overlooked, and it has been deliberately overlooked, that even if a pension fund comes for all, regardless of the fact that it favours certain groups, the compatibility of work and family is of course not guaranteed. There are other conditions, ladies and gentlemen. This requires not only the right to part-time work, but also the possibility to change back to full-time work, as it needs much more basic framework conditions. As a matter of principle, changing attitudes also need in the economy, which allow women – but not only women but also men – to be able to take care of the periods of leave. There is much more to be done than for months to focus the debate on just one point, which means: "Care money for all" or "Care money for those who need it" or income-dependent karenz money. Let me make one more comment on income-dependent care payments. We are not against it in principle, but I say to you one, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party: In the knowledge of the fact that women who are said to have an income-dependent pension money would improve their situation, at least 50 per cent would not be given a big one anymore, because their earnings were previously so low that they would not go beyond 6 000 s with income-dependent care, and knowing that income-dependent care is likely to be associated with an increase in unemployment insurance, we cannot agree with that. Only then, if you could rule out the latter, would we win for it, but if that is associated with an increase, then I say no. In fact, it was found that those women who would not receive more than 6 000 s in the future would have to make a higher unemployment insurance contribution, which would pay income-dependent care for others. This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be the case that the low-income women should pay the income-dependent care for a few servants or for a few better-earning men. This has only been briefly noted here. It is only then that if you can rule out an increase in unemployment insurance contributions, we can talk about it, and then it would be a measure that would be quite useful. Ladies and gentlemen! Last point. I have read with interest in the "Wiener Zeitung" that in the run-up to this debate you have had a controversy – it may not have been the only one – about the two years of single parents' pay. The SPÖ was supposed to be for it, the ÖVP was alleged to be against it. I can't look into your deepest coalition sky. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] I can imagine. But I would like to point out to you: We would like to give you the opportunity to create this necessary two years' leave for single-parents in this plenary debate. We will therefore make an amendment which will allow these two years' leave for single-parents. This is not all that we have to demand in this area, but it is very concrete that the single-parents were those who were most negatively affected by the deletions of the savings packages and who, according to the Minister of Family Bartenstein, have actually lost, but which cannot be returned, because it simply does not work. The single-parents should not be those who pay for it, and therefore I would like to inform you of the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now I have read this amendment and would like to make the following comment: Perhaps in the next legislative period, we will also be able to adopt a reform of the reading of proposals for initiative or amendment. That would be an immense boost, because I believe that reading such applications, which essentially only contain digits, is not a major contribution to transparency, to transparency and to the better understanding of laws. We have other ways of expressing ourselves. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again: This application includes the possibility for single-parents to claim two years' leave. The Liberals have also made a request for this. They have the opportunity to express their views on both of the proposals voted on under one. Take advantage of this opportunity! Give your heart a boost! The coalition is in the end because the elections are coming. You have nothing left to lose. Let's go to the new times! Take advantage of this opportunity! Help the woman!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3378	The proposed amendment is under negotiation and will be put to the vote. The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3402	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To remember: As early as September 1998, the SPÖ – that was the time when Mr Bartenstein had just finished such an interplay between child care money and karenz money for all; he was not quite sure what he himself wanted – clearly stated that we would like to talk first of all about redesigning the karenz times. We want to take greater account of the needs of children and professionals, and we do not want to – and we do not want to do so quite clearly! – distribute the money with the casting can, as well as money that is not yet available. Our motto and our political will was and is: Mothers and fathers should be free to choose the time of birth. But our political will is also to implement the "Action Fairness" and to achieve equal rights for workers and employees. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: And for single parents!]] That's what I'm gonna do. Wait a minute. Somehow this has to be built up logically. We also called for the rigid periods of karenz to be loosened and made more flexible so that a karenz time quota should be set up for fathers and mothers. And one thing was particularly important to us: Children have different stages of development, so parents should be free to decide when it is in the interest of the child to stay with the child. At the turn of the year – late, but still! – the ÖVP has also joined our demand – this is very encouraging, Mr Klubobmann Khol – and finally the so-called small family package with the core flexibilization of the karenz period was cut in the government clature at the end of January. Today, therefore, we are adopting a system that not only complies with the EU parental leave directives but also with the NAP requirements. These are rules that offer families fair opportunities for a life with children. So parents have the better choice when and how long they want to use Karenz. With all the models that are currently being proposed – "carrying money for all", "child care check" – social democrats lack something very decisive. None of these demands provide an incentive to create additional jobs, particularly qualified jobs for women. On the contrary: These proposals tend to try to push women away from the labour market – with a considerable financial burden on the budget and on the family compensation fund. [[Abg. Gaugg: The women are driving away from work? That's a schmarr'n! You must first create jobs for women!]] And another very crucial point: When implementing these claims, it would be spent completely indifferent money, which is not yet available, Mrs Haller. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller]] You don't have it either. I don't want to go closer to the sums. You, Mrs. Haller, haven't presented us a model yet, it's always an air bubble you're proposing. I therefore do not want to go further into the sums, but they are considerable amounts in billions. Just one comment, Mrs. Haller. Maybe believe. She is the secretary of Mr Bartenstein, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Stadlhuber, more. At the last meeting of the Family Policy Advisory Council of 26. In May 1999, he discussed the development of the FLAF until 2001 and said that further forecasts were unscrupulous and speculative. – But you already distribute money up to the years 2005 and 2010. It makes no sense to fix claims without saying where the money is to come from. So much to you, Mrs Schaffenrath, as you always question the credibility of SPÖ – I told you the last time –: At your congress – or as always at the Liberal Forum – you have called for the reduction of the government rate, I think, of about 5%, which is 100 billion schilling. How do you want to pay for everything you propose and at the same time achieve a reduction in the government rate? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] This is also true for our own demands. What we want is to make the karenz money income dependent. This is – I emphasize – a medium to long-term requirement that it will then be settled if it is budgetaryly possible. I am also in favour of Mrs Gatterer's call for financial support for students. We should certainly take this group of persons into account. First, however, we must create the conditions for this. It is therefore necessary to negotiate the 2000 budget, to review the FLAF's financial structure, and we must relieve labour. The priority and priority for us Socialists continue to be such that family and profession – by the way, the ÖVP has really written off very well from us recently – are better compatible. This also requires more childcare facilities with appropriate qualified care staff. So we want to create a legal right to a child care centre with uniform quality standards. We want an increase of 6 000 s in the amount and an annual valorization of this amount. We want to pay two years for single parents, because they are disadvantaged, they do not have a partner with whom they can share a two-year leave. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: How should this be financed?]] I have just talked in detail about the financial considerations. We want a further expansion of the re-entry measures, the right to part-time work until the sixth year of life of the child with the right to return to a full-time job. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's all in our request! You have quoted from our request!]] Yes, but we have a responsibility for the finances. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You only need to agree to our request!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only when these framework conditions are created can families, mothers and fathers really choose. And we want to allow them this freedom of choice. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You only need to agree to our request!]] I'd like to be willing to discuss with you even longer, but maybe in the bank series.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3516	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3537	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Women want to reconcile work and family, not either or, but both. That is why these amendments, which we are deciding on today with this amendment, are necessary and the first step. But I also believe that it is not the big throw, because implementation will not be that simple. But if Mr Mertel said earlier what the SPÖ did and what the ÖVP had written off, then I must give a little further instruction. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have written off that smoothly with the compatibility of work and family!]] First: The ÖVP has written nothing at all about the issue of reconciliation between work and family. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'm not ready to talk to you about it!]] I would just like to give you the opportunity for Austria's close-to-earth organisations to be run for a long time, for example, the competition "Women's and family-friendly enterprises". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Wait a minute! Mrs Silhavy, we could continue to discuss this. Whoever does this, the economy and Minister Bartenstein support these initiatives, and I think that is the right way, because Mrs Prammer always writes in papers that there are women's promotion plans and compatibility in this area. But where is the implementation? [[New calls from Mr Silhavy and Dr Mertel.]] I don't have that much time now, we can discuss it privately. Further: Family audit. Who introduced this? Mrs Prammer or Mr Bartenstein? And since you say that the money should not be distributed in accordance with the principle of foundry, I tell you that we also do not want to do so. "Care money for all" is not a distribution according to the casting pot principle, but karenz money for all means justice for women, who are very likely to work too, yes, doing an important work in the family sector. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Just! Exclusive!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Haven't you even written an article in the "Small Newspaper" where it sounded different?]] When we talk about the compatibility of work and family, I would also like to mention that this is only with positive actions, for example in the form that one motivates businesses – not by law, that is sometimes counterproductive – to give company educational leave. I can call you farms that give mothers or fathers an educational leave until the fourth year of their life, with the guarantee that they will be able to return to the profession. And when talking about why we do not agree to the right to part-time: Perhaps we even want to secure a job for women, to secure it better than to prevent it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Mr Oellinger said that we should finally vote in favour of the karenz money for the single parents for two years. Yes, but then there's a two-year pension for everyone. There are many women and mothers who are married, but are also single teachers, because the man is commuting for a week and they are carrying out this task alone. I think that the current system, namely 24 months with division, is already a good way to go, one must only use it and allow it. And if we're already there: We wish to pay for all of them as a first step and not in the direction of a care check, but in order to help this group as well. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's just another name!]] I think there are other points which would be necessary to implement them, and I also wonder why the SPÖ did not agree, for example in granting home aid for boarding school students and also for students. That would have been a point that could have been settled. What's it say time and again: Where are the fathers, where are the mothers, the profession and the family able to reconcile? – And that must be our way even in the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3659	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3680	High house! The two government parties, in pre-election periods, overwhelm each other with announcements and promises concerning the improvement of parents, mothers and children. I ask you in every form: Why didn't you even move a millimeter in the four years? – What is now being decided will only insignificantly improve the situation of working women and mothers, I tell you. Even at the very heart of the problem, namely the poor financial facilities of parents, children, the bad situation, as far as high-quality care places for infants are concerned, nothing will change at all. If it is true that budgets are an expression of government policy cast in figures, then your figures speak a clear language: 600 million for childcare, 1.2 billion for schoolbooks, but 12 billion Schilling in addition for NATO tanks. This means that, compared to schoolbooks, it is spent ten times on tanks and twentyfold on childcare places. This is your policy, which is also carried by the Social Democrats! In view of this, we need not be surprised that the families do not go out in the back and in the front. If you then have a discussion of the karenz money, for whom, how or what, then I have to tell you, that is too little. You should have been in a debate on basic security for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the Greens, the care of a child is a phase of a better-secured vocational interruption, with higher financial grants. This is a phase next to others that also belong to insured ones, such as stages of further training. There should be a connection because, especially for women, the possibility of re-entry into the profession after a child-related interruption must be publicly supported by means of education and money. And there it happens. The debate, which is being held again and again – unfortunately also by the Social Democracy: Who needs the karenz money?, is dangerous because it can very easily lead to such family tax systems and family transfers. Instead, you should have a debate on a fair tax system that is unfair from the point of view of the Greens, in particular as regards the preference of income from capital and assets towards income from labour. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We would like to talk about your announcements – "carnation money for all", "income-dependent karence". I really believe that parents of infants and children themselves would need a substantial improvement in their situation. As I said, our answer is: Basic insurance for parents and children. We would like to hold this debate, but we do not take it any longer that you want it to be serious at all. If you were willing to improve something seriously in this area, you would now have been able, among other things, to remove blatant, screaming injustices for those caring for infants, especially for women caring for infants. From my point of view, it is incomprehensible why other occupational interruptions, such as the times of the German army, also voluntary exercises in the Federal Army, are fully valid for all labour law claims, while the care of a child seems to be less valuable to the government parties. I would therefore like to make another request concerning the amendment of the Mother Protection Act, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now you have the opportunity to prove how serious it is to you with a better security of parents, of women. Now you can agree to this request. If you do not, then, I believe, you will provide the final proof that all your announcements are nothing but hollow promises and empty words. Tell the Austrian women why the care of a young child is less valuable than the time with the German army, why this time is not valid for the discharge, but voluntary exercises in the German army very well! Now you can take the test to the example, otherwise I would recommend that you be very quiet in the election campaign on this topic – better security for parents and children.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3789	The amendment tabled by Mrs Petrovic is under negotiation. The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please. Mr President, I should like to thank you Will you still speak, for there are still proposals from the Freedom Party to be submitted? - I'm asking you to check this out. [[Abg. May. Main: Thank you very much!]] Please, Mr Dr. Stummvoll.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3818	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the present package of legislation, we decide more flexibility, especially in the field of karenz leave, in order to be able to address the needs of families more closely. We are committed to this – I am also saying as a representative of the economy – that the economy is also trying to promote family-friendly businesses accordingly. We do not allow family and business to be divided, ladies and gentlemen, all the less so than one of the healthiest forms of operation in Austria is the classic family business. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Today, this is one of the healthiest forms of operation in Austria! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that the family is the smallest self-responsible community in a society. A healthy society has as its basis a healthy, harmonious family. That is why we also acknowledge from the economy that we are addressing the needs of the family by making the use of the leave more flexible. This is an offer from the legislator, and whether it is used depends on those concerned. It is an offer with a wide range. I admit that this does not make the law easier. So far, a section in the Mother Protection Act, which is § 15, has regulated leave for karenz, we now have nine paragraphs instead. We have to consider: The more just we want to be, the more flexible we should be, the more we respond to individual needs, the more complicated the legislation, of course. In this fundamental commitment, I would like to admit that, as a representative of the economy, we have gone to the border of what can still be reconciled with an undistorted operation. The fact that, for example, if no agreement is reached on the shift of leave, the employer has to go to the court of employment, is, I must honestly say, really the extreme pain limit of what the economy can do with. Ladies and gentlemen! It is still the main task of businesses to secure value added, profits and thus jobs. This must always be in the foreground. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last word, ladies and gentlemen, and I say this deliberately as someone who comes out of the economy: The economy is fully behind the demand for "carnation money for all", ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We are not only confessing this because we are committed to family policy responsibility, but when it comes to the child's well-being, it cannot be decisive whether the mother previously had enough insurance periods or not. If we take this seriously, then the consequence can only be: Carnation money for everyone, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3889	Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e3910	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In order to take the same approach: This is now the second part of my farewell speech, which I announced yesterday at my first part. That means that this is certainly my last speech here in this House. However, let me first refer to the current item on the agenda and to the templates. It has already been said by the Members of my group: This is an application that has been dragged along for two years and has already been stored accordingly. It is likely that it is time for us to decide. I have never made a success of the fact that this request is necessary, important and correct, but from my point of view it is still a compromise, an extreme compromise, to which we, as women, declare ourselves ready to try to reduce the worst abuses caused by your savings packages – I emphasize: try to reduce again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is available here today – and that has already been said – is an interesting exchange of beats in pre-election periods. What the EIA provides here today gives an insight into what will happen to us in the election campaign, which, in my opinion, has nothing more to do with women's policy. In my opinion, in these four or five years of retrospect, the members of the ÖVP were sometimes quite committed and also very offensive on some issues, especially when it came to discussing basics. Interestingly, however, this attitude has changed dramatically when the women's desire in Parliament is available for consultation and it has been a matter of deciding concretely or meeting concrete expectations. But I don't know how you're doing if you've listened to the speech of your clubmate and that of my previous speaker. In fact, he said that economics and family must be brought under a hat. I would be interested in what he means by "family" because the divorce rates in the ranks of the ÖVP are no lower than the divorce rates in the other parties and across the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So I would actually be interested in what you define as "family". These are in the majority of cases – whether you're saying it or you're not aware of it or how you want to define today's times – no longer those families you still have in mind in any dream images and visions. But you say: Economy and family – whatever family may be – should be compatible. And then, in fact, stupidally, the statement is that the healthiest form of family business is the healthiest. In my opinion, this really stops everything, both from an economic point of view and from an economic point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Stumvoll is not anyone, that is not the houseman who speaks here, but that is the representative of the economy in the ÖVP. That's where it all ends. I'm just telling you one thing: They represent not only family businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises on the part of the ÖVP. I only need to look at your members of the Economic Federation, who are very likely to come from larger businesses or run large businesses or groups. What will they say about your representative's statement here on this pult that the healthiest form of family business is? – This is an economic nonsense that I haven’t heard for a long time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] But this is, above all, a complete nonsense from the point of view of family politics and women's politics. Look You are looking at the family farms where women take three or four times the burden to maintain this farm with family members and with the family! You can't do this as an example of how best or how good a family – whatever you might understand about it – and how to get a career into a hat. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I don't feel exploited and also come from a family business!]] Mrs Fekter! We're not talking about you. You can obviously afford to recruit enough assistants to support you so that you can work at the same time, be politically active and mother and wife. We are talking about those family businesses in which there is no capital, so that the women and families have to do their work without assistance and support. We're talking about these family businesses. This is when we talk about family businesses – you should know better – still the majority of businesses, and these are not your individual policy-makers. That's not the majority of cases we're talking about here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The class struggle is already over!]] Then tell me the pain limit has been reached. – Yours is reached, but mine is also achieved if I listen to you. That is what I am saying to you at the end and to the end. My pain limit is also reached! If we continue to pursue equal treatment policies at this pace, our successors will be squabbling about in 100 years of such laws, such small changes, additions, en-, or formulas and the like. This is a pace that is embarrassing and that throws us back around 200 years, but not around 100 years forward! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But it is significant – and this also fits a little into my retrospect – that we often agreed in conversation, so to speak, informally, informally, on essential questions. But when it came to the fact that we women – I emphasize as women, for I have not yet completely given up hope – should decide something away and regardless of the force of clubs, then you have lost all courage. I was now again at an international conference of the OSCE Parliamentarians, where there is always a meeting of women, of parliamentarians, at which our colleagues from the Nordic countries, from Sweden, from Finland, from Denmark, from Norway, said the following: If there had been no uniform consensus among women, across all parties, there would have to be an urgent need to do something, for example, to raise the representation of women in the parliamentary bodies and thus to bring laws to a level similar to those of women's policy, which corresponds in some way to equal treatment policy, then they would still be today at the level of the fifties when a few women were sitting in the parliaments and were hardly represented in the governments. I would like to share this with women in all parties: Get up! Come to this consensus, emancipate yourself from your male colleagues in crucial women's policy matters! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the only way, perhaps in the next legislative period, to be able to actually take decisions in line with the objectives of the equal treatment policy. Do not be satisfied with small corrections and smallest formulations, which only eliminates the worst and the worst! They have also read in recent weeks the examples of how women are treated in the AMS, what they do not get, what they do not have, what claims they have not received. It's embarrassing! Get up! Find this consensus among women, and decide once what the equal treatment policy actually corresponds to and is worthy of dignity! I thank you. At the end of the day, I do not want to find any good words on this matter, but I would just like to say to you once again: Raffen Get up! I would like to ask you, especially the members of the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ, for the forced coalition must not be higher than women's policy concerns and women's policy objectives. I would also like to write this to you in the main book for the next legislative period. So get up, do this in the next legislative period! It would be sensational for Austria if perhaps my successors, your successors or you could also report what is happening in Austria at one of the next international conferences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4017	Our colleague, Mr Kammerlander, has shown us how different sayings of farewell can be conceived. Anyway, it's all right! Mrs Haller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4041	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, I do not think it is very courageous for you to pass a whole debate on an item on the agenda and to speak only at the end of this debate that no one can replicate it from the opposition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why I speak a second time has the following reason: I too would like to give this government a last chance in this case, especially the EIA and before the end of this legislative period. [[Call ÖVP and SPÖ:Oh!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Thank you!]] That is why we have tabled our motion for a resolution on child care checks. There is a great deal of approval in the ranks of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The argument that the free model of child care checks is unfinanceable or, as we have heard today, a Mr. Officer from the Ministry said it would be inconvenient – that is why the ÖVP only wants to save itself through the national elections! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: There is no there at all! It's not there at all!]] That's quite clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know the opposite, and the final report of the study knows the ÖVP and we know the liberals. It says that it can be financed very well. I'll tell you: The ÖVP counters, if it does not agree here, even its own family minister Bartenstein. They lead him ad absurdly, for he is the one who has been calling for the first step in the introduction of the child care check since last year, with the "carer money for all". This will be the proof of truth for the ÖVP in terms of family policy. I would also like to read the corresponding resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4131	The application shall be signed, filed in accordance with the rules of procedure and shall be negotiated. Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haller, I believe courage will not be demonstrated by the fact that at the beginning of a debate, at the end of a debate or twice during a debate, courage and success will be demonstrated by what is achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I look at today's agenda for my field of competence, I can say that I am very proud that a number of very important projects can be decided today. I would like to thank the majority of the House for its support. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you have rightly argued in the debate that there are wishes to be realized on the question of family, on the issue of the compatibility of work and family, I must say that I agree with this, especially in view of the situation of single parents or of the unsatisfying situation in relation to part-time work or the right to part-time work. However, it should not be overlooked that Austria is in the top international field, with regard to family promotion, in terms of labour law, social security law, material benefits for families, but also for women with children and various other affected persons. We are at the forefront of the weekly allowance scheme, the pension scheme, the occupational insurance scheme, the re-entry of work, the consideration of replacement periods, pension insurance, the contribution-free co-insurance, the social security scheme, if I think only of co-insurance in family health insurance. I could list a lot of examples here, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It may be transparent to recall that a referendum has recently taken place in Switzerland, with a majority stating that there is no need for a regulation on working hours or for working-time entitlements. Or in America, for example, a minimum result for women with children was celebrated as a social-political breakthrough. But, ladies and gentlemen, we want to focus on those who are even more advanced. The Scandinavian countries have just been mentioned, and my aim is to further develop the reconciliation of work and family. That law that you now decide is another step in this direction. There will need to be further steps which have been referred to again now, but I believe that it is a very important step which we are taking here, that work and family are compatible, that there can be no contradiction if we want to reconcile child and work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, in the treatment of laws, we should, at certain times, question the objectives of laws. Our karenz regulations say that karenz money is paid where a previous income is at least partially replaced. This is the central approach of the karenz money, and I believe that this basic approach must continue to be maintained in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: It's wrong!]] If we recognize that we still have gaps in the supply – through special needs, problems – then it is necessary to close these gaps, but without breaching the principle in which the claim is defined. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am also interested in the fact that during the next legislative period, the term "care leave" will be replaced by the term "care leave" in the legal provisions, because it is not a holiday when you are at home and the children are cared for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] However, I would ask you to understand that it is a very complex, very technical question to correct all the laws from the textual side to that. I believe that formulating the objective is crucial, and I therefore ask for your support in the next few days. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that, in cooperation with the social partners, we have tried to create the bridge mentioned by the honourable Member in the past: on the one hand, to understand the individual situation of the parents in such a way that we can respond very specifically to the needs but, on the other hand, to provide a practical, feasible law. Cooperation with the social partners is essential because they are the ones that ultimately have to be implemented in practice. Laws are best implemented if they are fully accepted by those concerned. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore very glad that we can take this step, but also ask for support that we take further steps together to improve the compatibility of work and family life.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4233	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Final words on the part of the reporting are not wanted. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately on each request. In one case, enumeration has been requested. I will then ask the writer or the writer to support this. First of all, we vote on the draft law in 1768 of the Supplements. To this end, Mrs Schaffenrath has tabled an amendment. Mr Oellinger has also tabled an amendment, and there is also a request for a separate vote on the part of Mrs Haller on the one hand and Mr Oellinger on the other. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments referred to or by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote with regard to Article 1(4)(15b), Article 2(4) and Article 3(7)(11)(11)(11(b). 6 and paragraphs 10 and 14 as amended by the Government template requesting separate votes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. Mr Oellinger tabled an amendment relating to Article 1(4)(15e). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I shall vote on this part of the draft law in the version of the Government's proposal and, in the event of an agreement, I shall ask for an important sign. – This part of the law is adopted in the version of the Government template. Mrs Schaffenrath has tabled an amendment relating to Article 3(11)(b) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 Introductory rate. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – The honourable Member has asked for an enumeration, but if the situation is the same as I see it, then I can count it myself. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not even all liberals are here! Not even all liberals are here! That's embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Where is Mr. Kier?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Kier must prepare his many speeches! Where's Peter?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where is Peter? Where's Barmüller?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The amendment was rejected by 135 votes to 8. I shall be voting on this part of the draft law as it stands. In the event of approval, I ask for a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. The amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger on Article 3(11) of the Rules of Procedure is now in place. 2 points 2 and 3 to the vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. I am therefore prompted to vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This part of the draft law as amended by the Government template is adopted by a majority. Next, we shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 3 Section 11 para. 7 and Article 3 (13) as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Next, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give a sign. – This part of the law is adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to the third reading. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Next, we shall vote on Mrs Haller's motion for a resolution on the improvement and strengthening of families by introducing a babysitting check. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mrs Haller's motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Labour to take note of his report in 2001. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. This Committee report was adopted by a majority. That is why we have dealt with points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. 3rd. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1776 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the General Social Security Act (56. Novelle on the ASVG) (2002) 4. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 341/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades on chip card (2003)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4336	We come to points 3 and 4 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4363	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The 56. ASVG-Novelle, which deals with the introduction of the chip card from 2002 onwards and its implementation, is based on an initiative that I originally heard. My group and I are still followers of the chip card. However, we have in the present draft law on 56. ASVG-Novelle add some significant criticisms. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that what is now being introduced is a "chip card" which does not fully implement all that one should and could expect from a chip card. We are all aware that there is, on the one hand, a danger of being persecuted by data abuse at the workplace, especially for people with chronic diseases. On the other hand, there is also a significant advantage for those with allergies or other serious health defects with the introduction of a chip card and the storage of medical data on the chip card in case of an emergency or accident if the patient is no longer able to contact him. We therefore believe that the optional expansion of the chip card would also be a far-reaching matter for those who wish it to be a matter of superior importance, which from our point of view could also be installed at the introduction of the chip card and not later. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: We can put this into place immediately by law! But we must create a legal basis for this!]] Mr. Feurstein! We also believe that this is finally abolished, which was introduced with a period of one year three years ago, namely the health certificate fee. This has to be abolished immediately, and the government has to make that promise again, which it has promised at the time. Thirdly, we believe that what is now under discussion, namely, in the renewal of the chip card every five or seven years, depending on how the discussions are going on, at least a chip card fee is unbearable from our point of view. With regard to the introduction of the chip card, the social security institutions are also of the same opinion, for for example in the recent publication "Info" of the Farmers' Social Insurance Institute 7 and 8/99, the corresponding report, on page 5 – I quote – is: In fact, this saving is so large that the investment costs for maps and medical terminals are covered in two years from a national economic point of view. - Quote. All considerations, which, Mr Donabauer, are published in your "central organ" in order to describe this, are not understandable, as one does not take the logical and correct step of excluding the ticket fee on the one hand, and on the other hand, the health certificate fee – the Federal Government has promised to drop it after a year – is finally discontinued after three years of term. We also believe that a number of new rules should be introduced in the field of election doctors. The unhindered access to the chip card and the use of the chip card for all electoral doctors would also be a useful addition to patients and the time limit for presentation to the electoral doctors, even with a corresponding immediate payment of the 80 percent share. We also believe that there are some additives in the area of data protection, and I can therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can add that it would not be understandable for us if the newly established GesmbH, which has to take over the handling of the chip cards, as the Court of Auditors correctly said in the audit procedure, were no longer subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. We therefore also want to fix this defect. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I carried out in the first place is contained in the motions for resolutions and amendments. I really want you to take account of our efforts here in plenary and thus to place the introduction of the chip card on a wider basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4475	Both the motion for a resolution and the amendment tabled by Mr Haupt are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mrs Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4499	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! From the mid-1980s there was a working group "Medcard" in the Chamber of Physicians in Vienna and a unit in EDV. Even then, the doctors wanted to get away from the "Cattelwirtschaft" and until his death our unforgettable President Neumann stood up for the chip card. The fear of innovation is understandable. Also in computer applications in companies, works councils have watched that the total monitoring of employees does not take place. It could have been taken from a science fiction novel how the human individual has been monitored by progressive engineering in the second half of this century. However, the chip card currently poses the lowest risk of surveillance. If it was once the doctor's wish to give the patient a "medcard" instead of a health certificate – at the time, however, the storage of the most important medical data, such as findings and therapies – it was since the introduction of the health certificate fee the economy, which since then had to handle the health certificate correctly, noticed the effort and demanded the chip card vehement. If we all say loosely now: I would like to remind the opposition parties that they are increasingly demanding more and more benefits from social health insurance, but they are not breaking their heads over the cover of these benefits. [[Abg. Oillinger: You can't blame us!]] This does not give evidence of a sense of responsibility! Medical progress is getting bigger, and health insurance funds also need the corresponding revenue to be able to carry out the expenditure. It's not possible otherwise! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] As was often the custom, so was the chip card now: Two wanted them, but the third, the main association, gets the beatings for it. With this law and the contract between the Austrian Medical Chamber and the main association, all parties can live. I myself was involved in the Vienna project "Medcard", and I was fascinated by the possibility that if a patient visits him, the doctor could have the exact predisposition and therapy of which could lead to a significant effort at the moment. Only in a short time was the danger clear in spite of all the proposed safeguards: that unauthorised persons, such as service providers, insurance companies, banks and so on, could gain access to these data. Health data are the most sensitive data at all. If we also move a bar to the insurance companies, we will not give them the opportunity to take insights into health stories and findings directly with doctors and hospitals with a harmless signature! This must be reserved exclusively for patients. They can pass on the data if they want. Be careful with statistics and reports, especially with regard to the cancer statistics leaflets that must be delivered without the knowledge of the patients – not anonymized, but with full name, date of birth and address. Although these leaves may say something about the number of diseases, they are epidemiologically inefficient due to lack of data on alcohol, nicotine abuse and viral diseases. We Socialists are always for progress – therefore also for the chip card. However, we will also have to deal with non-modern laws in order to change them, prevent a surveillance state and preserve the privacy of the individual.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4550	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, it is a pity that I do not have a badge from the doctor's chamber, because this could be applied here today, and you could then walk around as a walking lit-fight column depending on the situation. To the chip card: In principle, the intention is very good that, in principle, we get away from the form of the bill in the historical form, and that we stop with the philosophy that the companies have to bear costs for something in which they are actually not at all involved. It was always obscene to me why the insurance companies themselves have not issued the health certificates and sent them to the insured person, just as some institutions have done – some insurance companies have done so! – and so to speak, have dealt directly with the evidence with the policyholders. The reason why employers had to be switched on and why they had to bear certain costs was actually not understandable. I am very sorry that it is only now that one should change this. – The cost of such evidence should be borne naturally by those who benefit from being insured with them. In principle, the Liberal Forum for Insurance rather than compulsory insurance is an expression. This would also change much more than just peripheral measures, as they are now planned. However, I have concerns because some things have come into this first draft law, which should actually be worrying. Article 31a(3) For example, paragraph 3 states that the following data are stored on the chip cards: other data whose storage is provided by federal law. – That means that it is somehow unlimited what you can still foresee – depending on how Parliament is composed. I hope that we will never go beyond the data such as names, date of birth, gender and insurance. But there are other comments that – like I take away "NEWS" – would still be storageable: For example, criminal registry extracts are not personal state data and could therefore be stored on the chip card. I think this is very worrying! There is also the thought of what the Vienna Constitutional Expert Professor Heinz Mayer says, which means that one should formulate the more precise, from the text it is not clear what can be stored on the chip card. – If that is what a constitutional expert says, then, as I believe, one should take these concerns really seriously. It is not about preventing progress, it is not about not allowing simplifications, but about the security of data. I allowed myself to make electronic invoices myself, and I was one of the three first ladies of my professional group who were told there were no problems in my billing. But I never did this online. I believe that online links to insurance pose a major problem. On the one hand, the problem is that hackers can get into the system and, on the other, that a virus can be transmitted. As long as I send the insurances, I can protect myself half from virus transmissions. Conversely, this is no longer possible. On the advice of many IT professionals, I have always handled it in such a way that my computer in the ordination has no Internet access and cannot be switched on online, just to maintain these protection mechanisms. But this is now prevented in the first draft, because it is again stated in § 31c health certificate in point 3: "At the end of 12 months from the date of receipt, the respective contracting party shall be obliged to charge the services provided by it electronically using the information provided for this purpose from ELSY." – That means that my data will then be transported online. That's exactly the vulnerability. I think you should take this seriously. I think that an online connection is one of the most sensitive points and that this type of connection should be prevented in the event of diagnosis in the case of data defining diseases. There are really other ways to use it. With diskettes, postage or direct transfer, I see no difficulties at all. Let's see how the German insurance companies do this. I have a German health insurance, and this is my insurance certificate. [[the speaker holds a card in the height]] That's a simple card, without magnetic strips, without anything. It says that I am assured that insurance guarantees to cover hospital costs under the agreement, that the following benefits are to be borne, that general hospital benefits are 100% and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I also have this in Austria as a private insurer!]] It is really remarkable that German health insurance – and this is the largest health insurance in Germany – does not need the magnetic strip system for proof that you are insured with it. That's interesting, isn't it? I mean, we should have thought about something else. There are very simple lift cards that enable an optical display. If it lights green, you can go through a door, for example, but if it shows red, you can't go through that door. That is, one would simply pull a card through a machine; if the lamprl is green, then it shows that the policyholder is insured – you only need to ask the ski lift operators how it works – he is not insured, then the lamperl lights red. This is about a magnetic strip, you save the entire chip card, and it has exactly the same effect. If the policyholder leaves his company, this strip will be changed, and that's what it's all about. The costs are within a manageable framework. I can't say zero because that would be unfair. But what works for ski lifts could work easily in chip cards or in health insurance. That's why I mean, we shouldn't rather get into a law that's actually, I'd say, too dangerous. If the law were to be very simple and simple, the law would allow us to use new technologies that are not threatened by hackers, where there is no way to bring viruses into a system, then it would be something else. But who is responsible if I suddenly have a virus in my system and my entire computer infrastructure is broken? Can I sue social security? Which one do you want me to complain about? Can I prove that at all? – In general, one cannot prove where the virus comes from, and that becomes a major problem. I have personally experienced what it means when a major mega-crash occurs in a computer system, and how many weeks it takes until everything is re-regulated, and what costs that means. In this law, as it is now formulated, I actually see the burden on the doctors, and I simply find that unfair. They are in principle the last. On the other hand, the burden lies also with patients who cannot be sure that their data will not be fed into systems they cannot even control, let alone that they have a right of insight at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4628	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4649	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We have just seen from the example of Mrs Gredler what one should not do as a doctor: to frighten patients and citizens, to fear the virus – she is okay with the flu virus, but a computer virus related to the chip card is technically not possible. The fear that the computer will lead to uncontrolled data transmission is unfounded. Everyone knows that the computer is part of our lives. Why shouldn't she be part of medicine? The crucial question is: How can I protect the patient from inappropriate transmission of data? – I can tell you: Many doctors have thought about this, and all the concerns have been removed, otherwise the doctors would have – the doctors are not so stupid either! – not unanimously agreed on the chamber day. It is a treaty that has come about as a suitable compromise, which the Minister of Agriculture has also brought about in a pleasant, positive way. What's this chip card? – The chip card is the world-wide – that is what we should say to all those who have not yet dealt with the chip card – the most innovative product at present. I repeat: the world's most innovative product! Why? – The Americans have brought nothing together in this area, probably because there are so many insurance companies there that they could not agree on a system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] The German insurance card – we have just seen it – is actually from the computer age. They can de facto throw her away, she doesn't do anything. France has an island solution from the Institute Pasteur, but it does not bring anything. The advantage with us is that we have a monopoly provider, namely social security, and it is easier to introduce such a project. But it will certainly be that way – the health databergs are so large – that the computer use must come. There is already a data management of X-ray images by means of computer. There are more and more doctors, in a western incident from Vorarlberg to Vienna, who use the computer without fear. Mrs Gredler, this is already happening! The crucial question – and you will find me as a doctor, of course, on the patient's side – is: How can we protect the patient from some day in the newspaper that he has AIDS or any other disease, or that his data will be passed on to any illegal place in the sense of the progress of medicine? It may be that he agrees by signature to make all the data available to another person. He might mean, What's wrong with that?, and he doesn't see the consequences. And suddenly someone – that could be the employer, a newspaper or a private insurance – knows about his diseases and could say: Ah, you have AIDS, diabetes, too high blood pressure, you're a smoker – you're a higher risk or an unacceptable risk. I believe that we must protect the patient from a certain overload – that is the crucial question, and this is clearly solved by the chip card, so clearly that I do not really have to talk about it. I don't think it's fair that you're going to be a speaker here and you're afraid you're saying: For God's sake, what anything could be! Just this fear is not justified because this chip card is a key card, and key card means it is nothing but an electronic health certificate that may be upliftable. However, the chip card can only be upgraded under three conditions: first, you need a second card – that is a protection – second, you need the legislator again, and thirdly, because this is an overall contract between doctors and social security, the doctors also need to do so. I do not think that the National Council will be so stupid in the next legislative period to be drawn over the table on this issue. I believe that the progress of medicine, the genetic possibilities of research, will bring us so many problems, in the positive and negative sense, that we must be very careful. But today to say: We're not doing anything now, we're putting the head in the sand!, I can't accept that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion. That's the previous health certificate, a really archaic instrument! – Pumberger, you laugh, but it is! [[The speaker shall keep a health certificate form up to date.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (a recipe form keeping up) This is a recipe! There is also in the future!]] And in the future? - That's the chip card. [[The speaker holds a chip card up.]] In addition to what we already have in the banking sector, without the world going down – no one says today, we should do everything without a credit card – we could, I believe, take the first steps without fear; the first steps that are still innovative worldwide. [[Abg. Gaugg: But it's still a small difference!]] Then: Fear of death has also died!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4751	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4772	Mr President. High house! I took the following from Mr Rasinger's speech: He believes; and he believes that many things will not come. The second thing I took away from it: crazyly innovative and great! Mr Rasinger! I do not want the chip card to become a question of faith! I do not want you to believe and may believe that Parliament may decide something in the next legislative period – believe, yes! – or will not decide. I would like the chip card to be discussed very rationally, and this basis, I think, is still lacking. I would therefore like it to be discussed rationally because it is also a cost question. And if only the cost question is discussed, I'll get the greys. We have a legislator who decided in 1996: We want the chip card immediately, as of 1997! So it was in the resolution. – We of the Greens were the only ones – I remember this committee meeting – who said: All experience suggests that the introduction of such a chip card system is not feasible within one or two years, but takes several years. – The answer to this was: No, no, we do this quite differently in Austria; you'll see, 1997 we have the chip card! Mr Rasinger! Point one: This is not a question of faith but can be answered. It takes his time, and it's associated with problems. We drew attention to this – not just rightfully, not that we wanted to be right, but that was the experience of other countries. Point two: one again on the cost issue. It was said at the time: The insured shall not be burdened by additional costs. What do we know about this? – The employer's side pays a unique contribution from the insolvency fund. That means she doesn't pay that amount at all, but takes it from a filled checkout. 300 million schilling, and then the thing is done. Annual savings from 400 million to 500 million schilling for employers – okay, should also be so, why should they not save anything! But who pays the costs: the annual costs, the introduction costs? Who pays them? – With 300 million schillings they are not paid. The doctors get something from the main association so they can agree. That was the debate of the last half year, which was held intensively – okay, should be so. But who pays? The main association? A Member of the SPÖ, Mr Pittermann, then says: The opposition always requires new benefits from health insurance; do you not know that health insurance is at the limit? So who pays the chip card? The main association – from which bag? – From the insured, I suppose! Whether this will be the chip card fee as a replacement for the health certificate fee – an absurdity special! – or a higher health insurance contribution does not matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] That's what the insured pay! Who else?- Oh, my God! In this way, the 1996 resolution is already a tool in this respect as well as in other points. But that's still not the essential, that's just the cost question. It should also be clearly answered, not a question of faith. But that is still not her, neither by the presentation of the government, the 56. ASVG-Novelle. The cost question has not been answered, it remains a question of faith! Who, do you think, will pay it? [[Abg. Mother: The insured will pay!]] Mr Rasinger! You are on the side of the insured, you say, on the side of the customers, on the side of the patients. [[Abg. Smolle:... the insured will be!]] We will look at how in the next legislative period it will be decided and who will pay the chip card. Who must stand up for it? Another comment on Mr Pittermann's comments because she spoke so intensely that the opposition always demands something: I would like to remind you that under the next item on the agenda, the loss of self-sufficiency in occupational social security for co-insuranced children will be decided. Cost savings for the economy: 70 million schilling. Who pays? [[Abg. Donabauer: For the family and for the children! It's in the law!]] Who pays, Mr. Vergestnich? Why this gift? – Self retention is being introduced everywhere, and everyone knows that self retention is a non-social instrument in health insurance, but with the self-employed, can self retention be eliminated without a debate taking place? Without anyone saying: Wait – why, why, with what perspective? - That's just a note. Now I come to the second point: the data problem, the information problem. You know the article about it in "NEWS". I have already presented to you on Tuesday within the framework of the Data Protection Act, which is the problem. The Data Protection Act defines what is sensitive data. Sensitive data are health data, data on union membership and political past. However, these are not labour market or school-related data, for example. Neither is the student career protected, nor would a "five" list be protected under sensitive data. This brings me back to the protocol from the Ministry of Education, after which, in 1998, in the presence of representatives of the main association of social security funds and the AMS – I find this particularly pious – one discussed how the student career on the social security number and, of course, they wanted to be just as innovative as Mr Rasinger! – can be captured via a chip card, so how the student career can be personally captured. Where you are right, Mr Rasinger: The chip card is a very innovative idea! Especially on the condition that the main association introduces them in Austria, this means nothing but that we have a universal identification feature for each person in Austria with the chip card. When you start it skillfully, Mr. Rasinger, you can not only track, identify and create cross-linkages to each person through the main association data and what is already stored, but also achieve some of the "glass people". The chip card has a feature that has no other card, even the bank card or similar cards, because they are not universal: The Social Security Card is the only universal card! That's great, of course, but at the same time it's very tempting to really spread and develop the "glass man" with this means. When I read in the Data Protection Act, which is defined under sensitive data and which does not fall under sensitive data, then I read the 56. ASVG-Novelle reads that there is the possibility to include other "data whose storage is provided by federal law", and if I also know what links have already been remembered in this respect – in the Ministry of Education, by the AMS or by any other ministry – then I am afraid and afraid, ladies and gentlemen! Then we're a nice little closer to the "glass man"! There you can still say that this is a great and innovative thing – but it has enormous danger potential in itself. Ladies and gentlemen! You could talk about it for a long time, but I don't want to do that because you're determined to say goodbye to this novel. At any rate, we wanted to point out these dangers, and we will not be allowed to do so in the future. I'd like to let you know something else. In connection with this debate, we are also bringing in a motion for a resolution which we have already tabled in 1996. A few of its points are done through time, so to speak, but a few other points are still very important. I would like to read excerpts from this request: The Minister of Social Affairs is instructed to ensure that a legislative proposal for the introduction of a chip card takes into account the following requirements: The introduction of the chip card must be regulated in the ASVG. – Okay; but the costs are not regulated. Only the following data may be stored on the chip card: Insurance number and thus birth date, name, gender, academic degree and insured status. Unfortunately, you have decided more. There must be no technical means of storing sensitive health data or other data for further use. – These technical possibilities exist. No costs may be incurred for insured persons in the event of the card or in the event of data changes and loss. The cost-free expression of all existing automation-supported data is required. It is also necessary to exclude any link with other files – that is what I have presented to you – such as taxes and bank institutions. But "Ministry" would also be used there. Further claims are the establishment of a data protection officer by an independent body in order to ensure effective control of the stored data and access rights, as well as: no increase in health insurance or other social security contributions to cover the costs of the corresponding financial expenses. In its trend, this proposal is very clear: We're not against a chip card, but: It must be limited because it is a very innovative, but also a very dangerous instrument in the hands of ministries, authorities or private institutions who, of course, see their ability to link and develop data for themselves. Then I'll get up the gray bears!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4849	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger in his broad outlines is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The whole application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4911	I give the floor to Mr Nürnberger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e4933	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a preliminary speaker, two doctors and a doctor have talked about the introduction of the chip card that we have today with the 56. ASVG-Novelle. Allow me to comment briefly on this from the point of view of an employee representative. Before: Mr. Dr. Rasinger, I am going to conform with very large parts of your remarks. I am glad that there is an agreement between doctors and social insurance companies with the overall agreement within the framework of the main association. The main function of the chip card must be to replace the health certificate. That data, which already appears on the health certificate today, will also appear in the future. No other data, such as diagnostic and health data, income, wealth and personal status data, may be included on the chip card. I should like to underline what you have confirmed – for us as employee representatives, of course, the first question was: Is the data protection guaranteed? –: Data protection is guaranteed because the chip card will be equipped as a key card and will only work together with the doctor's professional card. Let me briefly show you the benefits of the chip card: The insured person will no longer collect the health certificate in the payroll office. You become a health certificate because you have the chip card, even if you have sudden illness at night or weekend. The chip card is the ID card for the use of Kassnambulatorien. There is no longer any issue of health certificates by the service provider and thus an annual savings for the P. T. service provider amounting to about 500 million schilling. At the same time, the loss of the "Central Economics" in social security is taking place. I underline what you said, Dr. Rasinger: It is a very, very innovative innovation that we are deciding on today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But let me also say this, as many speakers have used their last speech here to say goodbye to Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You too?]] I don't officially say goodbye because I'm going to run again. Whether I will be given a mandate, the Sovereign will decide the electorate. Nevertheless, let me say a few words in retrospect, especially on the social field. This Federal Government has done an excellent job for the Austrian population in a wide range of areas; I do not need to list everything, the tax reform and so on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am nevertheless – I stress this – characterized by a very great disappointment, because it has not succeeded – although it is already in the second government agreement – for 1.2 million people in this country who, under the status of a worker or a worker, have to earn their bread, their livelihood in this economy, to eliminate the differences between workers and employees in social and labour law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You are weak! Always for choice! You could've done it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If Take a look at the gallery, and there you will see ambassadors of fairness and justice. I should like to welcome these ambassadors very warmly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[On the gallery, young people take next to each other the inscription "ÖGB Action Fairness", whose T-shirts are interconnected with each other.]] Let me say something about "Action Fairness" [[Abg. Gaugg: You are only more charlatans!]] There has recently been a so-called paternity dispute about who is the inventor of the "Action Fairness". [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The representatives of the ÖAAB were particularly prominent. [[Abg. Smolle: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Fairness for all mothers!]] However, I should like to remind you that in 1990 the metallurgists in our country raised this demand for the first time. At that time all the others in this country still slept. [[Abg. Aumayr: And you still!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: The equality of workers...!]] [[Further calls.]] It was also the metallurgists who said: We will have achieved equality by the year 2000. The metallurgists reached them in 1998, in October of the previous year, on point and point, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Now my friends Erhard Koppler, Franz Riepl and I, who have direct functions in the metal industry, could make it easy, we could lean back and say: [[Abg. Aumayr: In the evening the lazy will be diligent!]] Our people have them, we've done it! [[Abg. Gaugg: Heavy failure!]] But that's not our style. We are in solidarity with those million people who do not yet have them, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now let me say a few words: Why didn't we decide this "action fairness"? – Because the preventeders have names and faces, ladies and gentlemen! One of them is President Maderthaner, another is silent, and I can't spare one of them to call him: ÖVP social spokesperson Feurstein. Dear Godfried Feurstein, you know, I honor you, I appreciate you, but I can't save you the following accusation [[Abg. Gaugg: I love you!]] When it comes to serious problems of workers in our country, you have always been on the side of the economy. I can't save you this accusation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why not also fairness for the mothers?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖGB has not said: "Action Fairness" – everything must be here! We were prepared to take measures that would have saved the economy from costs. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the negotiations have presented themselves in such a way that one has appeared to act on the bazaar. The economy has negotiated according to the motto "Dose equality against bad conditions during holidays". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I assure you – everyone who listens today, especially our ambassadors at the gallery [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (pointing to the suddenly weaker light) Even the sun darkens!]] The Austrian Trade Union Confederation and its trade unions will give no rest until the social injustice in our country has been eliminated, because it is no longer possible to explain it today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: After so many years! You don't believe this anymore!]] Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! I should also like to thank you for your really tireless, constant commitment to fighting this injustice. I know you've been trying to reach an agreement yesterday in the last few hours. Thank you very much, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Smolle: What does that have to do with the chip card?]] So that no one believes that Nuremberger has misused a agenda item, and although the President has not given me a call on the matter, I can now make a connection to the chip card, and then you will see that the fairness action has something to do with the chip card. There will be no discrimination in the chip we are introducing. There will be no differences in the chip card for the worker and the chip card for the employee. [[Abg. May. Main: For the farmers too!]] With the chip card we have fulfilled the "Action Fairness". Mr. Stumbling! You come to me, come out and say that you are for equality – without a trade in the bazaar! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5268	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. [[Call the SPÖ:Oye!]] I'm asking for peace! – Voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5295	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A rare spectacle, not to overwhelm in charlatanerie! You sit here for years and don't do anything! Nothing you do! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your colleague Vergestnich once a year found the way here – once! I don't know what he "song" about. You're too weak, you're too weak! – to represent the interests of workers. [[Abg. Nürnberger: You first!]] [[Abg. Nuremberg: What are you doing?]] You mustn't be outlawed by ridiculousness! I'm going to tell you why. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] First: They've been in government with the ÖVP for 13 years. You would have been able to implement all of this for a long time if it were a serious concern to you – or you would need an election topic that could be. At this level I would put it: We need an election campaign theme, otherwise we'll go down trade unionists! You could have said what you're saying here years ago. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the last plenary day you have the naughtiness, go down here and say: I'll bet! – If the use of the trade union parliamentarians of the Social Democrats manifests itself in the fact that a Mr Vergestnich is standing here once a year, then I must say: [[Abg. Grabner: He said this once more than you did ten times!]] Don't overwhelm weakness anymore! Incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I shall now present you with something else, Mr President: In the "Action Fairness" a partnership would also be sought with that group, with which these things can be implemented. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] But you don't trust that! They seek partner ÖVP, fail, but are not willing to take as partners who are seriously interested in the "Action Fairness" or equal treatment. [[Abg. Edler: How was the letter?]] You don't have the courage to do that! You lack the courage to represent the interests of the workers here in Parliament, but you are elected to do so. [[Abg. Edler: How was the letter?]] Since Mr Nürnberger has declared here full-bodied that the Sovereign elector will decide whether he is sitting here, I must say: If he decides, he won't be sitting here anymore! Your party bodies decide whether you're on the list. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do not mislead people – you will receive the invoice presented! You've been presented in Carinthia, and you'll get it presented all over the country. This is really no longer to be surpassed: For four years, he's been sitting in here, claiming he's been representing these interests for eight years, saying: When we get to the government, we'll do all that! – Yes, what's wrong with you? You're too weak! [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the letter?]] I'll tell you: You can't represent people's interests because you've also been affected by the reduction of personnel and the like in recent years. [[Abg. Nuremberg: But you don't need money!]] When you listen, you get the impression – probably I get a call for order – that you are naïve. I tell you this very consciously in connection with the chip card, because if you ask: Is the data protection secure? and then the Mrs Schmauswaberl or Mrs Federal Minister tells you: Yes, the data are secured!, then believe that. In the same way, it is in social policy: They believe everything the entrepreneurs tell you. You're too weak! [[Abg. Edler: You wrote a letter!]] You failed! And I hope you get the corresponding bill. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I will now give you an example of your form of social policy. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] - Just stay quiet! [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the money from the snoring action?]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] ==References== May 1999 a march – earlier a big event, today a foreigner’s meeting – and there was an initiative by the Social Democratic Workers’ Movement, where workers belonging to your party are fighting for their existence. [[Complaints with the liberals]] They're fighting for their existence! [[Abg. Edler: What did you do?]] Are you in the government – or are we? Who's in the government? Who has the possibility of putting it into practice? Who's putting the Federal Chancellor? Who is the Minister of Social Affairs? Who's putting the ÖGB president? Who?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I only understand social democrats! The demonstration days in the area of social affairs have begun under Vranitzky and will continue under climate. They're your friendly agents, and you're going to go with them. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I want to hold on to the following things: There is an initiative by employees of the company Waagner-Biró, who desperately fight for their existence. There's a list of signatures. [[Abg. Edler: What did you do?]] - Edler read it! All we have promised, we have also implemented! That hurts you so much. That is why we also have the voter's approval. [[Abg. Edler: What did you do at the sugar factory? Where were you at the Bear Battery?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] At the "Bären-Battery" all employees have been employed again. Just calm down! [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr President. Get some rest in this house! That's incredible!]] Now perhaps the President gives me the chance to hold back that part as a document that upsets the SPÖ so much. [[Call the SPÖ: What?]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The SPÖ claims to be the workers' party. They're the workers' traitor party. That's it! [[Abg. Koppler shows the so-called disc wiper gesture to the speaker with his hand in front of his face.]] That alone is enough documentation! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Shame!]] There is the initiative of the Waagner-Biró staff who created a list of signatures. And now we'll see who signed everyone. That's what signed: Mr Faymann, Councillor; Mr. Cap – earlier he had fought out here, now he has been put to death in the mouth; it is really a disaster – [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is a cowardice! I want him to get an order call!]] Mr Swoboda, who is in Brussels as Head of Delegation; a certain Heinz Fischer, here in Parliament for more than 20 years – you will wonder, Grabner, I will be there for a long time, and you will not be anymore; Mr Pensionist Blecha, chairman of the SPÖ Pensionist Association; a certain Minister of Finance Edlinger, who says in every action that he has no money. [[Abg. Grabner: You'll never be!]] Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima has also signed this. I assume that these are not fake signatures. All these are signatures... – But you only speak and do not act! [[Abg. Edler: What's bad about that? Is that a private company?]] That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now the highlight is: The last was Mr Vergestnich's signature. And what is the result? – Mr. Liaunig throws people out. [[Abg. Edler: Is this a private business?]] You have distanced yourselves from those people you have to represent – only to maintain the proportion with the ÖVP. I'm ashamed of your behavior!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5719	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to have at least so far in hand on the last plenary day of this legislative period that the day goes over the stage in sequence. I remember: The agenda item is 56. ASVG-Novelle and the chip card. President. — The debate is closed. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5747	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is an old parliamentary experience that the volume of calls always increases when the arguments are weak. That is an old, long-standing parliamentary experience! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Nürnberger has succeeded in adopting today's decision-making or debate on a rather epochic innovation in the field of social security, the introduction of a chip card that replaces 42 million health certificates – a classic example of red tape reduction, as we had not had it for a long time! – to refunction into an election campaign start-up of the ÖGB. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: That's what ÖVP did!]] I regret this because we have other platforms, Mr Nürnberger, which are suitable for re-operating a matter into an election campaign start-up of the Trade Union Confederation, just one wing. [[Abg. Edler: What did my colleague Steindl do?]] Mr Nürnberger! I am very curious about whether the Fairness action also means that there is only one trade union in the Trade Union Confederation. I have just heard Mrs Sallmutter speak at the reception of the Chamber of Commerce, and I do not wish to say here clearly what the words have been like, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going back to the real topic: Chip card. Ladies and gentlemen! If the principle "good thing needs a while" is correct, then the chip card must become a great thing. I remember: I conducted my first talks about the chip card with the then medical chamber president – unfortunately, he died – Michael Neumann in 1990. Today we decide on the chip card, and in 2002 it will be widely introduced. These are, ladies and gentlemen, twelve years. I am therefore saying this because the word "bureaucracy reduction" is rather rapid, but the example of chip card shows how much use or energy is needed to implement an idea. However, I am pleased that this vision, the "Central Economy" or the 42 million pieces of paper will be replaced by a chip card. I am pleased that we will take this decision today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not only the red tape reduction for businesses that I am particularly pleased with, but it is also the above-mentioned benefits for the workers who bring the chip card with them. You don't have to go to the pay agency specifically because of every doctor's visit. There are many advantages associated with the chip card, and it is ultimately also a signal of the modernity of our social security. I am convinced that the social security people in Europe will look at how the chip card works in Austria. I am glad, Madam Minister, and thank you for having the energy to carry out this chip card despite all its resistance. Our compliments on this, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why we have been successful, ladies and gentlemen, has already a certain reason, and with this I come back to the "Action Fairness": In the end, we succeeded in the chip card because we have seen it overall: here the employer, there the workers. I absolutely support the fairness action, ladies and gentlemen, but only fairness in the working world, where there are two partners: the employee and the employer. Fairness can only mean: Fairness to both, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore like to extend the "Action Fairness" and include businesses in it. That is also the reason why I acknowledge it. At this point I have to say something about my colleagues Feurstein, who were attacked here. Mr Feurstein has full responsibility and full knowledge: We're all the economy! the "Action Fairness" as I always support, but in both directions: Fairness not as a one-way, fairness in the sense of not being blind on an eye, ladies and gentlemen, dear! Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Let me give you a specific example: I can't argue – I like to admit – why a worker has only four weeks after a heart attack and one employee has six weeks of payment entitlement. I cannot argue, however, why a worker who changes the company during the working year has twice the full holiday entitlement. Our offer was "Action Fairness" in both directions: If we remove the injustices, we will eliminate them there too! But the ÖGB was not able to do this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This must be said in the sense of the truth of the negotiations over the last few months. That's the truth! Fairness can also be unfair if it only goes in one direction if you are blind on an eye. Finally, it is the businesses, the entrepreneurs – and only them, ladies and gentlemen, dear! – which can secure jobs. You have to decide at some point what you want: an disturbed relationship with the businesses or fairness for all? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Fairness for all can only mean: Let's get rid of the differences in payment! But let us also eliminate the injustice that certain workers – after all, this represents an amount of 4 billion schilling a year – consume the full holiday claims twice a year! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That would be a "action fairness", Mrs. Colleague! I'll invite you to: Let's do this together! At the beginning of the next legislative period, let us jointly make a comprehensive "action fairness" in which we eliminate injustices in both areas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll invite you to this! That could be a nice start for the next legislative period, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5859	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following: The level of noise that prevailed during Mr Gaugg's speech, especially generated by the calls, has caused me to understand neither the speaker nor the calls. Maybe you can say: Thank God! But I was now made aware that Mr Gaugg, in the course of his speech, reportedly said to the SPÖ: He's a traitor's party. I'd like to say: This is not the Jargon I wish for in this House. If this expression has actually been so - I ask Mr Gaugg - then I must say: This is an expression that cannot be approved! [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo, Mr President!]] Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5892	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, it is inevitable that in a debate which is actually dedicated to the chip card, one also takes up what the previous speakers said about the "Action Fairness". I do not wish to hide from the Liberal Group: Of course – and this is an integral part of our political demands since the establishment of the Liberal Forum – it is an essential need to eliminate the differences in labour law, how they have grown historically and are, in part, only historically understandable, by harmonizing labour law. But this must also include the field of contract staff and also the field of public services – with all the special features that are certainly needed. Finally, the Special Service Law should also be harmonised in the form of a comprehensive Labour Constitution Act. This claim is therefore too brief if it focuses exclusively on the differences between workers and employees and pretends to be the only problem we have in the world of work. The aspect of so-called new independence and its interfaces must also be taken into consideration, namely all working people, and among the working people also those people who are self-employed. I think we should look at this from the point of view of the people concerned and not in the categories of economy, ÖGB or AK or any other permanent breakdown. If we have this access – and this is the access of our Liberals – that we jointly consider what framework legislation et cetera we need in the new working world, in which new independence is needed for the people working there, then I believe that this is the new solidarity. That's it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, there is no contrast, but an incompleteness. It should also be noted that it may be different – that is not a style criticism now – to formulate: It is true already, since 1970 the relevant social democrats have been run and managed. From 1970 to 1983, there was the possibility of doing with absolute majority all that was called for by this speaker's desk today as a forward-looking programme. One could have done it for a long time, before entering any coalition that might have made it difficult – or not. This should, as I believe, be said from this point of view too, in an intrusive way, so that, in particular, the colleagues who are trade unionally organized and now here in the house and who have supported their President Nuremberger in this speech by manifestations, will make themselves aware that it is only half the truth, what has been said here, and that there is indeed a lack of the past – if that is the case as Nuremberger said. Therefore, in this case, perhaps – in order to speak somewhat forward – a concept paper for speeches for the 3. ==References====External links==* Official website But now on the topic of chip card. The chip card is a double thing, is a knife with two cuttings, and unfortunately it is characterized by all features of Austrian unprofessionality – of all characteristics! Unfortunately, this has become particularly striking in this case. The process in the development of this project, for which we have always been involved in the Liberal Forum – we have already called for the chip card, since some in this house and elsewhere have not yet known what we mean – was unprofessional – to the sweat of fear. First, 300 million schillings were approved, and then orders were awarded. A transparent requirement specification has not been defined at any time. It was not publicly discussed at any time what this chip card really should be able to do. Yes, even semantic uncertainties have appeared. What a chip card is, what a credit card is and what a bank card is, everyone thinks to know, colleague Rasinger showed us some card here – I didn't see it exactly – I don't know, it was a bank card or a credit card. I must draw your attention to the fact that, in the field of data processing, the cards look incredibly similar, but they can be incredibly many different things. You can be interactive, you can be read-only cards, they can be cards that can also be labeled if they are used, they can therefore enable data transfer or even be read-only cards. There are huge differences, and these differences are essential because any card that can also be described – and the chip card that is introduced here can of course also be described – has an interface. And who describes what, who manipulates the data? If I may allow my imagination: It is therefore not as insensitive as it seems when we call it 56. Consider ASVG-Novelle. You are, if you want to stay serious, in a dilemma: Of course, it is a pleasure to say that 42 million health certificates will be abolished – only if I consider what administrative costs will be incurred in the health insurance companies, what speed will occur in the processes of accounting and so on the social security fund, which can be achieved by the social insurance companies. There's something I'd like to hold on to. When I asked the Committee how high the potential for savings in the main association and in the social security institutions was, if the modern office organization kept moving in there, I was informed that there was no potential for savings there, so it was only necessary to pay the economy – whoever it was – that it was. It is not expected that this will reduce administrative costs for social security institutions. – That was the authentic information in the committee, and I would like to say that here. I didn't quite understand. I thought that perhaps it would be down to the administration of social security funds, but that was negated. If there is such a discussion that, obviously, there is no intention of increasing the efficiency of social security institutions, but only the efficiency of access to doctors, then one simply becomes nervous because one asks: Yeah, what's that really about now? Therefore, one of the main shortcomings of this project, which is introduced here, is that it is borne by an incredible data-processing belief, of a naïveness, to assume that something, just because it is called "ELSY", will already work, that if it has a lovely name, something is already unproblematic. But that's not the case. The actual hard facts will finally emerge from a regulation that will develop the main association in cooperation with the ministries, where doctors do not even occur in the context of the law, because the regulation... [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Part of the general agreement, Mr. Cot!]] As part of an overall contract, that may be already. But there is no transparency at all. I am expressly reading a provision that stands out, namely, in Abs. 5 of the new § 31a: On questions of the compatibility of new uses – and so on – the Data Protection Council should, at least, be heard with a reasonable period of time. I have to tell you: I belong to this Data Protection Council, and we are regularly confronted with and heard with legislative proposals. This does not work at all, however, because the Data Protection Council has no executive power. It is only a more or less high-ranking and also a political assessment body, which is normally dealt with anyway. But if it's just written into the law, it's like singing out loud in the dark forest because he's afraid otherwise. In reality, however, it does not help if the Data Protection Council is involved, because it has no competence. He gives an opinion, and whether or not one is interested in this opinion is in the absolute desire of the persons acting. The standardisations that are being carried out here are alarming to alarming, and for these reasons we do not agree with this solution. This basically hurts us because we would like to have something like this, but transparent, publicly debated and accompanyingly controlled, not only by the bodies of the so-called self-government of social security institutions, of which we know that they feel better behind upholstery doors than in the democratic public. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5949	Mr Donabauer spoke with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e5970	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If Mr Gaugg has previously offered himself to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, as a new government partner in an unsurpassed self-happiness – it was quite clear that he said yes: Why don't you just throw off the one you don't bring with you, get yourself the powerful, the energy-charged one?; it was very embarrassing for Mr Klubobmann Scheibner anyway – that is nothing special for me. I do not derive from it any new coalition structure, not at all, I have only heard it with great interest and mean: You've always been better off with this government partner whose federal partyobmann says something very right, namely: Those who want to preserve good must change some things! – That is exactly what we have done in the social field in the last four years in an excellent way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We could not fulfill all the wishes, not all the templates could be done – that would be unthinkable! – but it was so much mastered that today we can decide with satisfaction and joy these two novels. When we were on the 29th. Here, in November 1996 a resolution on the introduction of a chip card and decided, there were many who said: Well, once again something the government announces but will certainly not create! Many of you have looked at this development from the outside, but because of my work in social security, I had the pleasure to experience it very directly. We have managed to present a product, an innovative, an intelligent product, and it was at least a right decision to make a milestone in social policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have achieved that the health certificate will be replaced, we have achieved that the access will be facilitated, and we have also achieved that the data protection is fully preserved. In fact, these were the cracking points in this project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Your contributions to the debate today have been made to show that you are concerned about who will pay for it. – Simple: This government has succeeded in finding the consensus: The economy has been heavily burdened with the administration of the health certificate to this day, and it has therefore been willing to put 700 million schilling on the table. This is indeed a great achievement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The social security scheme, which is of course also beneficial to this changeover in the administration, has also put 300 million schilling on the table. It is therefore jointly financed correctly. Everyone who thinks there would have been something wrong somewhere here, I offer to make myself available for a comprehensive discussion wherever you want. For the big discussion about which data this chip card may contain and which is not – that has already been said several times today; this is quite easy to explain –: Name, insurance number and exhibitors. It is only included if someone is exempt from prescription fees. That's right. However, this is also noted on the health certificate today, and it is also correct that it is stored on the card in the future. I think, Mrs Federal Minister, that we have taken a first step with this, but I can imagine that, on request and with the consent of an insured person, a card holder, we may also be able to record further data. This is not the subject of today's consultation, no, but I am thinking of tomorrow's future development, because I believe that this chip card, as good as it is, will be further developed. That is why I should like to make these suggestions on the day of the decision-making process today. With 1. In January 2002, this product is to be offered throughout Austria. There will be some field tests. I am very glad that a consensus has been reached with the Chamber of Doctors – the negotiations are not always very easy there, I know – that we are going the way together. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Oh, yes, very easy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Very easy!]] Well, the invitation that we pay all the hardware and software products, the invitation that training should also be paid with this project, has not been done, but it has been done, and I therefore assume that the medical profession now also accepts this chip card so that we can really implement this project without disturbance. At the last meeting in the main association, I also submitted the proposal – I think it is important and right – to make a professional public work as well. In fact, it is still very often and often in ignorance of the situation over all this and weathered. I think the insured have the right to be fully informed and informed in this context – and this will happen, I can guarantee you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, however, a lot remains open, such as the question of the health certificate fee. I'm just talking about it, it's not going to be discussed today. After all, this fee has brought us 650 million schilling to finance health insurance, and it is also a reasonable regulatory for access to benefits; it will now expire. I invite everyone to discuss this question without emotions, not only from ideological viewpoints, but we should discuss how we can effectively bring this missing amount in place. A further burden on the economy, and hence on labour costs, is certainly not the way forward. This question will require comprehensive consultation. In any event, it must be more thorough, at least it must be more factual than the statement made by Mr Hoof, who said that, as a social insurance, we told the insured, we are saving a lot of money through the health certificate fee, and now we want to abolish everything again. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your First, we're not the "central organ". If you have problems with the term "central" this is probably due to your party structure. That's your problem, that's none of my concern. What you have mentioned is our information brochure. [[Abg. Scheibner: You take away the speaking time from your colleagues!]] I can tell you that we do not have a health certificate fee, but that it is a share of the cost. This can and must be determined here, because otherwise something unjust remains in the room. I would like to thank all those who have contributed here, and I am glad that this path is now open and that we are going to take it in the interests of the insured Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[12:13]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6065	Before I ask Mrs Haidlmayr to start her discussion, I announce that the Members of this House, Mr Oellinger, Mr Kier and Mr Mag. Main according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an Examining Committee on Apprenticeships of the Federal Government and the Euroteam Group. The debate has not been called for. Under the Rules of Procedure, the vote will take place after completion of the agenda for today's sitting. Mrs Haidlmayr, you have the floor. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6095	Mr President. Mrs Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the bank card is concerned, I can decide, as a consumer, whether I want it or not. The bank can't order me a card that contains data that I may not want to save. Just after this pattern, it could at least have been possible to have the freedom to choose whether or not to use a chip card. Mrs. Minister! To force someone to order that his name, his date of birth and his insurance number, his doctor's visits – who knows what's coming – be stored on a card without any protection against data abuse, that has nothing to do with democracy. This is nothing other than the "glass man", since everyone – in this case every patient – can be illuminating at heart and kidneys in all his areas of life from every point of view. The secure data protection you are talking about, Mrs. Minister, is not there. Why else? You, if it were for him or if you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, believed in the data protection promised by you, would not be willing to ensure that the federal government takes over the costs and, in some cases, paid pain money or the like, if data abuse is shown or someone can prove to you that his data is misused? Why is there no such law? You can of course say that everyone has the right to file a complaint if he believes that his data are misused. Mrs. Minister! But we have to turn the system around. You must make a law on the basis of which your ministry must prove that the data has not been misused by someone! Only by such a security could you have achieved a piece of credibility in terms of data abuse or non-data abuse. But you didn't consciously do that because you know where these data sink and disappear where they can be used anywhere. This does not require any professional hacker coming from any data transfers and passing them on. This is already doing ten-, eleven-year-old children today, they already have the knowledge and the opportunity to do so. With a semi-good PC, everyone will soon be able to access all the data that is available on the network. And service providers may be the first to use this data when it comes to setting when it comes to new service conditions. Mrs. Minister! You know that, and you also know that the pharmaceutical industry has never been "stopped" with so much knowledge and data as it is now through access to data. And because you know this, Mrs Minister, you have pointed out more or less about it in the government paper on which we are voting today so that nothing will happen to you. Paragraph 31a states: Other data, whose storage is provided by federal law, can be found on the chip card. Mrs. Minister! It is only the negotiating skill of the pharmaceutical industry, the company, all those who want to arrive at data, to convince you very quickly that the storage of certain data they need for marketing is required by federal law. And then it is very probably officially covered by you, then you can get to this data through this law. Mrs. Minister! This is really a very serious danger for people who need a doctor, for people who are chronically disabled, for people who are in medical care, and also for people who may only go to the doctor every ten years, because 15 medical visits are stored – no matter how long they are left. Mrs. Minister! They know how the labour market selection takes place when several people apply for a job. Then suddenly the service provider knows – now already! – how often the applicant was in the hospital and why he was there. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Then he doesn't know!]] [[Federal Minister Hostasch: No, no!]] Even now, the service provider has to write to the specialist's certificate to which the professional wishes to go. You know that. Data for this are available from the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital. – And that’s only the beginning! Ladies and gentlemen! The electronic media open the door and the door that nothing is hidden from private life, of course not the health data. We are all exposed to this danger by this law, which has not yet been known to date, but you know that it is very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6155	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. You want 4 minutes off? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6185	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We'll soon vote on a thing you call "chip card". We say: It's expensive special trash! Why? – The chip card is currently serving – listen, deputies! – only one proof, namely proof of insurance, and you can easily provide it yourself in other ways: [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You don't believe what you said now!]] You just need to grab into your pockets, take an insurance card, take a photo, and what do you have? – An insurance certificate, even a forgery with a photo! That's what the card can give and what the card can give for. Now you're over 1 billion schilling! And that's what I blame you, not that you make a chip card on yourself, we need the chip card, but the chip card should be useful and not serve for the insurance certificate, which you can pull out of your pocket very easily and easily and keep everyone away, still for fraud-proof. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, we have always said that there should be a chip card, but a useful one that is worth its money. And what are the conditions for a meaningful chip card? – It should be a ticket, a ticket to a networked health system, with special access cards for the user and a pin code for the owner as a security. It must be falsifying, and this is quite easy: You only need to scan a photo for a normal card – not a substantial extra effort, not a substantial cost – and we have a meaningful card. But not the cartel you're producing for 1 billion schilling now! They must meet the data protection requirements in order to protect the privacy of the patient, especially with regard to social security. The networks of the central computer of social security insurance are indeed well documented and even published in the book – we have often discussed it. [[Abg. Smolle: Mrs Colleague! I can't go to the hairdresser!]] According to various EU regulations, even third EU organisations such as ENFOPOL.and others would have access to these protected data. I know that this card can in principle be more, but it will not be used for any more! And what is it now? – Currently it is a 40-ton truck that is allowed to transport a chocolate bar – and not anymore. And for that, it's just too expensive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As always, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you count the horse from the wrong side. First you have to create the conditions, first you have to build a road and then you can put the car on it – and not vice versa! But until you're so ready for thought, the current card is exactly what I said at the beginning: expensive special waste!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6246	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6267	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is, I believe, rarely a law that can be said out of deep conviction that it is for the benefit of all concerned. It has already been underlined by you in the debate who in this case are the parties and who also has the benefits. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: The patient not!]] For me, the patients are in the foreground, and the patients have a clear advantage because, when they have the chip card, they no longer have to go to their employer to get a health certificate and thus no longer need to make transparent how often they need a health certificate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] The employers have the advantage that they will no longer have to do the considerable manipulation with twenty million of health certificates. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] The doctors have the advantage of being able to take out social security accounts in a simplified procedure, and this is free of charge because they are provided with the facilities for them. [[Renewal detonatative acclaim of the abg. Smolle]] The main benefit is – I recognise this – our Austrian social security system, because we can achieve the most modern innovation boost with this step: towards efficient, forward-looking management. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: To the "glass man"!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention a fifth benefit: data protection security. With this system, we have secured data protection even better than it is already. I am very proud of the fact that our Austrian social security system has never failed to comply with the data protection regulations. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Hahaha!]] This ensures the trust of the insured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the future too, it was so important that the Data Protection Council was an important interlocutor in all the deliberations that led to this law. I would like to point out that They are critically questioning the fact that other data can only be recorded if there is a federal legal basis for this, a suggestion of the Data Protection Council, because this is the competence of the legislator – and I have confidence in this competence – to ensure data protection for the insured and all those involved in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler has referred here to a card issued in Germany and which she herself has, I can inform you of my information: The German colleagues are faced with a major problem because this card is extremely dangerous to counterfeiting. They are very concerned about whether they will be able to continue this system, and they pay great attention to how we in Austria are doing the future design in this area. I am therefore very glad that this step has succeeded. I think it is also an example of what we are discussing today under this item on the agenda under fairness: All the partners involved have joined forces and have finally come to a fair common proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] There is a treaty that is the basis, and a law that protects the citizens of our country in a clear legal framework. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since the "Action Fairness" has also been mentioned briefly: I too have tried to show fairness to the employer in dealing with this important concern. I have tried to make an offer under the contribution scheme, and I have presented a package that should have made it easier for the economy to achieve this labour-law approximation. [[Abg. Smolle: Mrs. Minister! But you don't have to wear the badge! You sit here as a minister and not as an ÖGB woman!]] There could nevertheless be no consensus, but we will also try to find such a one in the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that, by adopting this law, we can now give the start of an even more innovative, even more modern, and forward-looking administration in our Austrian social security scheme.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6398	Mr Pumberger spoke on behalf of the European Parliament. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6419	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The "Action Fairness" would also include not abuse this important debate about the introduction of the chip card, which is really a revolutionary matter, for an election campaign for the trade union. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals, as well as Mr Gredler and Mr Smolle.]] Mr. Nürnberger and Mr. Col. Stumblingly speaking only of the "Action Fairness", there is a trade union debate here, and the debate on the chip card is completely in the background, and the President does not give a single call to order. [[Abg. Silhavy: And what about the Gaugg?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Let's get to the point. They say the biggest advantage is that the annoying manipulation with the health certificate is lost when the chip card comes. – I can tell you the following: Of the 42 million health certificates currently issued per year – there are also the transfer certificates, Sunday service certificates, representative certificates, night service certificates and much more – some 25 to 30 million health certificates will continue to be received. Every doctor – 60 percent of doctors are not yet working with computer, and even over the next five to ten years will not change much – every health certificate itself has to be issued. It is only shifted the bureaucratic work from the establishments to the ordinations, Mr. Madethaner. The administrative burden in the ordinations is increased, and the time available by the doctor to the patients will be reduced. And this is to the detriment of the patients! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also an essential reason why we will vote against it at the third reading. Mr Maderthaner! If you say the entrepreneurs save 440 million schillings a year for the exhibition of about 8 million health certificates – no more are it that employees need for their co-insurers a year, everything else are representative certificates, pensionist certificates and much more – then you have to calculate for the issue of a single health certificate in the companies about 60 S. I don't think it's that much. There are numbers that are taken out of the air so that you can justify that you are raking 300 million schilling out of the pockets of the traders, your forced members in the chamber. To justify this, tell them they save 440 million schilling a year. But that's just not true. These are numbers that are not proven. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Because of data protection. I have the article here: "Chipcard for glass students". It states that the chip card can also be accessible to schools and the labour market. That is what Mr Oellinger has already said. But when you insert a chip card with a storage capacity of 64 MB – which corresponds to a capacity, a volume of 32 000 machine-written book pages – but actually only stores data that is placed on two lines of a recipe form – I happen to have one with: Name, address, insurance number and date of birth are in two lines – then something has to be planned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There's something in the bush!]] Therefore, there is an extension, which red and black party colleagues are constantly talking about, in the room. How this expansion will look like the "glass" student, the "glass" patient, the "glass" labour market will realize whether one will store medical data and much more on it will show itself. Therefore, for reasons of caution, we will reject this chip card at the third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6495	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of reporting has not been required. We are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the draft law in 2002 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. The main and comrades have submitted an additional or amendment request. I shall therefore first vote on the parts of the draft which are affected by this supplementary and amending proposal and then on the remaining ones. The amendment by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. The main and comrades concerned the insertion of new paragraphs 3 and 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 1 (31b)(1). Whoever is for it may give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, may give a sign. This part of the draft law has been adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted on. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. This part was adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft law may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades concerning desirable modifications of the chip card. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on chip card. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2003 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1909 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the General Social Security Act (57. Novelle to the ASVG), and on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Heide Schmidt, MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning a federal law with which the General Social Insurance Act (BGBl. No. 189/1955), as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 68/1999, and the Commercial Social Insurance Act (BGBl. No. 560/1978), as last amended by the BGBl. I 16/1999, amended (2004 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 859/A (E) by Dr Volker Kier and others on the contribution of employees to social security (2005 to the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 864/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the entitlement to benefit for women and women in the week (2006 to the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1015/A (E) by Mrs Sigisbert Dolinschek and others on the harmonisation of social security law and structural reform of social security funds (2008 to the Supplements) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1151/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Federal Law of 30.11.1978 on Social Security of Independent Workers, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (2011 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1912 of the Supplements): The Federal Law on Civil Health and Accident Insurance (27. Novelle to the B-KUV) and the Karenzgeldgesetz are amended (2012 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1910 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Commercial Social Security Act (24. Novelle on the GSVG) (2013 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 892/A by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Commercial Social Security Act (GSVG) (2014) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Herbert Haupt and comrades concerning the adjustment of the contribution base according to the Commercial Social Insurance Act to actual income (2015 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1911 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (23. Novelle zur BSVG) (2016 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Herbert Haupt and comrades concerning the option for farmers between the contribution calculation based on the unit value and the actual income calculation (2017 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6764	We now come to points 5 to 16 of the agenda. The debate on these points is under one. The rapporteur on points 5 to 11 is Mr Dietachmayr, to whom I am now speaking in order to present a print error correction to the written Committee Report 2004 of the Supplements. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6782	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I refer to the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template 1909 of the Supplements, and to Amendment 1146/A in the 2004 Supplements Report. I would ask you to consider the following print errors: 1. In the fifth paragraph of the report, the word "changes" shall be replaced by the word "change" and the word "maginal" by the word "marginal" in the second sentence. 2. In the attached text of the law, the words "the expression" shall be replaced by the words "the following expression" and the quotation sign shall be replaced at the end with the above point. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6806	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the correction of the print error. A request for oral reporting on agenda items 6 to 16 is not available. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. I give the floor to Mr Gaugg as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Who is inclined to use his 4 minutes speaking time for the quality of the laws? These points were the "highlight point" of the entire social area, which took place on 30 June. This year was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. During this session, in which a wealth of legislative instruments had to be decided, an amendment was even made to an amendment, and requests for the opposition that has been in place for years have been left behind. Even at the ASVG, there were still changes – three in the number – and also in the Karenzgeldgesetz, and that immediately before and during the session! The representatives of the opposition parties have pointed out that this has nothing to do with fairness – and fairness should exist at all levels! However, the fact that one leaves the opposition applications for years, while the government parties themselves make changes during the session – because one is unclear – is to a great extent unfair! Mr Feurstein, who meant: We are looking for cooperation!, I must already ask: Where have you been during the last two years when we wanted to cooperate, because the opposition parties' requests, such as Mr Dolinschek's request for harmonization of social security law, are at least contentious and included on an agenda? One should think about taking the way to the future also in the administration, including in social security schemes. You are now celebrating the chip card as a "epochale event". If this is to be an epochal event, then I must say, but also the conditions for all Austrians to have equal treatment in the field of social security. They all pay their taxes by the same system, they are citizens of this country and they also have a right to have the same social rights! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I wonder why you are resisting it! Why are you opposed to modern, forward-looking social security? – The main reason for this cannot be – I do not suppose it – that there are only red and black officials there who need a – at least paper – employment therapy. This continuation of non-perceptibility is reflected in these more than 100 innovations. Mrs. Federal Minister! It would be high time to establish an comprehensible social security law, which gives the person entitled to benefit the right to know whether he has a claim or not. Not least because there is a confusion of laws and revisions, there are so many complaints before the Labour and Social Court. The fragmented legal situation, the disregard for the principle of equal treatment, the fragmentation and ultimately the inefficient and costly administration do not help to master the future. I would really like to ask you, yes, to discuss seriously at least those proposals made by the opposition parties in the future. It cannot be in your interest, as the competent minister of the department, to push all of this aside. It would really be time to create a uniform legal basis for all Austrians. That's obvious! For when we speak of 27 social security institutions, that is not the whole truth, because we also have 33 national offices and 116 outposts. It cannot be in your interest that the contributions of the members will ultimately be used for self-management. It is always expressed in percentages, but in sum this is a considerable amount of several hundred million schilling – and the additional costs are not yet taken into account. A modern administration also includes the perforation of existing legislation. Such a search of existing laws is high in time for us to have a social legislation in our country in the next millennium, which ultimately provides all insured persons with an comprehensible, effective activity and a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6901	Mr Seidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e6931	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated ladies and gentlemen still in the hall! Mr Ofner is very concerned that, as soon as I leave the National Council, he is no longer the President-in-Office of the Council if he continues to be inside. - You're welcome to leave this honor. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Thank you!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 5 to 16 show a number of things on the basis of which we see that in our insurance sector – whether after the ASVG, BSVG or GSVG – innovations are simply necessary. As Mr Gaugg thinks that this is a bad witness, I say the other way round: There is a need for regulation! And where there are gaps – or in the course of time also changes – these are not only to be grasped, but also to close in order to ultimately create more justice for all parts of the insured in Austria. I would just like to make a few points. ==References== Novelle to the ASVG – the disabled – is prevented from being treated differently, following a suggestion by the Austrian Association of War Victims and Disabled Persons. Accidents of disabled persons who suffer from them in the course of their activities or training courses shall be expressly treated as accidents at work. This has not been the case so far, and I consider this to be correct and necessary. A second point concerns a tighter system which, I believe, I have to talk about a little longer. By clarifying clearly in the time-limit, it is now possible to close a pitiful regulatory gap with regard to tight insurance. ==References== ASVG-Novelle was granted on request by the newly created § 248b to those persons who were not members of the short-term pension insurance scheme but who made higher contributions. In the judgment of the OGH of 6. However, on February 31, 1996, it was considered that this scheme would not apply to those persons who were before the 31st century. In October 1975, the company was excluded from a scarce or equivalent holding. In order to avoid cases of hardness, it was in the 55th century. ASVG-Novelle makes it clear that persons who have been involuntarily expelled before that date may also benefit from the possibility of higher insurance. This scheme entered into force with 1. In August 1998, it was not applicable to pensions with a previous deadline. This led, as has been shown, to an underprivileged group of persons, for those who were involuntary, for example due to re-training measures of the AMS and similar facilities, the miners' activity before the 1st century. ==References====External links== On 1 August 1998, the date of entry into force of the 55th Convention. ASVG-Novelle, who were in retirement, could not benefit from the new regulation. No transitional provisions were provided for allowing these pensions to be recalculated. In order to close this gap, a new transitional provision will also apply to pensions with reference date 1. ==References== It is now possible to re-evaluate it at the request of July 1998. – The legitimacy to talk about it leads me away from the honour that I was admitted to the guild of the familiests a few years ago, and therefore I have allowed myself to take the floor for it. ==References== Novelle on the GSVG, which is about self-insurance in terms of health insurance, I have tabled an amendment, but it is only due to the fact that the text of the law simply lacks two lines for technical reasons; I am forced to read the whole text. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to take note of this. ==References====External links== Novelle on the BSVG, which regulates secondary activities, farmers' pensions and the like. But it is tempting for me, as for so many of us who last stand in this House at the speaker's desk, to bring in some personal thoughts. If I have also been a teacher for 40 years, you do not have to worry that I will play the teacher now. First of all, I do not agree with that, and secondly, I do not think it would be, thirdly, if one had been listening to this House for many years, to want to give good advice to those who are still coming or staying here. In my opinion, however, the social state of Austria is a story of success – and this is right on this issue! This social state, based not only on ASVG, BSVG, GSVG, pension law and the like, does not, in my opinion, require a look back, but that we continue to expand it and, as far as is necessary and possible, improve it. Austria has achieved a unique position within Europe and the whole world, and anyone who is looking around and looking around in the European area gets this confirmed over and over again. As a child of the 1930s in which there were 600,000 unemployed in Austria – and this in 1.3 million employees! –, I know for myself exactly what it meant, that about my father – we were five children! - after unemployment was "regulated". This term is no longer known to younger people today, but it was a terrible judgment for all those affected by it. Today we have security inside and outside. We have pensions whose system was reformed in 1997. As a senior speaker of the Pensionist Association and Members of this Parliament, I think it is necessary and important that we commit ourselves to the payment procedure and to make very careful and critical any other considerations relating to capital cover procedures, three-pillar models or whatever. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The older generation, i.e. those over 60 years old, now comprises over 2 million people in Austria. They want to share in speaking, agreeing, responsible. That a youth study has shown that mobile phones and the Internet are "mega in" – even the older generation is dealing with it – and that church and politicians are "mega out" must give all of us thought! Winston Churchill once said that, although democracy is not a very good form of state, it is the best he knows. – I would like to say: As a Social Democratic, I would like to see a further development in our democracy, as well as further development in the sense of fairness. I wish this House much success for the next few years and decades. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7013	The amendment tabled by Mr Seidinger is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mr Seidinger! I would like to address the congratulations you have made to the House on behalf of the Bureau of the National Council. I thank you very much and wish you all the best for your further life. I have often experienced you in the house as a speaker, if I may allow myself to make the judgment. They were among those Members who have always argued with an eye, even in difficult situations, and I believe that we must be particularly grateful for this. Apart from that, we both have experienced not only common hours in this House, but also in far-off countries, and that has brought us in a special way closer to each other – if I may say so. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Look here!]] I wish you all the best for your further – and hopefully still for a long time! - Way of life. [[General condolences.]] The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7049	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In the first part of his contribution to the debate, Mr Seidinger spoke about the need for regulation. – That already has something for itself, but I say: It's also a repair requirement. That is exactly what we have experienced in the hustle and bustle of recent weeks, namely, how most of the materials on the agenda have developed, up to the withdrawal of the opposition from the Committee's deliberations due to the extremely short deadlines. In this respect, regulatory requirements are not always the same as regulatory requirements. On the one hand, these proposals require more repair, on the other hand a re-improvement of financial dimensions such as redeployments between accident funds and health insurance. So what is now available has a lot of improvisation character. I therefore welcome Mr Seidinger's wish to see him as an appeal to find perhaps more consistent decisions in the next legislative period and to make repairs if we have to make them, so to speak. This would also be a contribution to the last debated "Action Fairness". In particular, I would just like to put a few headlines on it, and in particular to express my joy at the success of keeping the artist's problem at least in the waiting position. She hasn't been saved yet. I would like to point out that the Liberal Group is not going to give up its call to replace current service providers' contributions at last with wage-payers, in the event of a reduction in rates, because we believe that this is easier from an administrative point of view and also prevents social security-avoiding legal arrangements in order to formulate this. – That’s another aspect. However, this request will not find a majority today. On behalf of my colleague, Mr Oellinger, to be found under item 8: I fully understand the request, but tell you why we will not agree to it: Its implementation is not possible! - Dear colleague Oillinger! If the social insurance companies were actually included in this information requirement, as you demand it – and I have a lot of sympathy for it – then they would collapse with a probability of 100 percent. They are not able to fulfil this duty because they no longer recognize themselves. The fact that you express this symbolically by the request is my condolences, but for the reasons that I have just mentioned, namely that I do not really want to paralyze them, we do not agree. – This cheerful note was very valuable now, I think. It is less welcome that the request made by my club lady on the equality of living communities will not find the majority again today, which we very much regret. On the industrial social security to which we have tabled our proposal – it is about the source wave –: I should like to point out that at that time, as the basis of assessment for business founders, it was extremely unfair to behave. Indeed, all those who did in the first wave of founders what we were hoping to do, namely to set up companies, have subsequently been informed that they were so to speak stupid because they did not wait until the slow legislator had reduced the basis of assessment for the founders of the company. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] It was so unfair that I have to say – and I have often experienced it enough in my professional life: Some people have been really angry since then! You have made a serious mistake with this, but you could have improved it by agreeing to our request, because in this case the retroactive effect would have been fair – but unfortunately you have not done so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7107	Mr Feurstein has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7129	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we are now dealing with twelve agenda items in a joint debate, but I would like to point out that of these twelve proposals we have four from the government, but eight from the opposition to which we have the reports. You should see that. It is true, I believe, that this was summarized by the President, because there is a close relationship. I personally regret, ladies and gentlemen, that you were not involved in the committee, so that we could not deal with and discuss your requests together. We have given an opinion on each request; I am saving myself now that Members Kier have already received a number of requests. However, I should like to point out that ladies and gentlemen of the liberals: For me, it is a matter of course that there should be amendments in a committee. If there were no amendments in the committees if the government proposals were simply accepted, parliamentaryism would not articulate itself in the way it should be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore did not understand the objections, especially those of Mr Öllinger. I did not understand that he was not prepared to consult and negotiate on the amendments, including his amendments, motions for resolutions and self-employed requests. - That on this point. With the current legislation on social security, I believe we are concluding a project that was launched in 1997 with the pension reform. ==References== In many areas of social security, we will finally have a new system in January 2000, namely the full introduction of the provisions for the new self-employed. The development of work contracts/new self-employed will be completed. There will be further adaptations that are necessary to this system by 1. In January 2000 it was created to be fully effective. I welcome this in the field of agricultural social security, in the field of industrial social security and also in general social security law. I particularly welcome – Mrs Minister, I would also like to thank you for this – that, as far as they are choosing opt-out in health insurance, we offer voluntary self-insurance in statutory social security, in the statutory health insurance system. I believe that this is very important, and this also takes into account a concern of the professions to a large extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are further improvements – some have already mentioned Mr Seidinger – I would just like to point out that there are very important improvements for women in two areas relating to child rearing. In the future, it will be possible to take into account child-retirement periods in the event of a recalculation of the occupational incapacity pension, the invalidity pension on the occasion of the transfer to the old age pension, if they have not been previously taken into account. So: Incapacity for work, invalidity no longer harms the woman, the mother, even in this case child training times are taken into account. Mothers with disabled children – this is very important! – in the future, the years of care, education, the care of disabled children – will be the full times! . count as contribution periods in the framework of voluntary, improved self-insurance. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these laws are a phase of change, the renewal of our pension system, which was started in 1996/1997. We can say that the measures have taken place. Today, we have a health insurance scheme, which achieved a surplus in 1998. We have a pension insurance scheme with one of the lowest federal grants ever available – in 1999 a federal grant of between 23 and 24 percent of total pension benefits is expected; in 1986, it was more than 30 percent. This results in the measures we have taken. Of course, we have also slowed down the increasing number of new entrances to the pension. We have a good system, because we do not have to push people out of legal social security, as is the case in Germany, for example. There, people are told: You have to make life insurance yourself, so that you are cared for! We can say: Yes, our legal social security system is guaranteed, in all areas, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know that it is a very essential merit of Mrs Hostasch that we have gone this way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A clear statement – I would like to comment on the comments made by Mr Nürnberg: As well as the SPÖ, we of the ÖVP have worked to ensure that the fairness action, the approximation of the rights of workers and employees has been included in the government programme. Mr Nürnberger, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to let ourselves be put to the vote. We were always ready to talk – Mr Nuremberger, on the other hand, not always. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We were ready to talk when the ÖGB representatives came to the ÖVP club. We have asked them to use the last 14 days for an agreement on this issue, and to tell them quite specifically in what direction the agreement could take; we have seen a certain understanding of it there. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have then been told by the expert discussions and have learned that the cold shoulder has been shown to each other during the expert talks. Who was missing when it came to the final round of the social partners? – Vice-President of the ÖGB, Member of the Nürnberger! And who was missing when the Minister informed the Clubmen and the ÖVP and SPÖ social speakers? – Mr Nürnberger, Member of the Commission. But he makes himself here today and accuses others, ladies and gentlemen! – What has happened here is all kinds of things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The theatre donor, who was organized by Mr Nürnberger, was a sign enough for me, Mrs Deputies: He wanted to justify himself. Whoever argues as honourable Member Nürnberger argued has a bad conscience because he has not negotiated because he has not tried. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's ridiculous!]] Yes, the ÖGB has a very substantial share to account for with regard to the failure of the negotiations. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] I am accusing the ÖGB from this speaker's point of view that it was not his intention to compromise, to reach an agreement, but he wanted to have – and this has been noted today – a topic for the election debate, and this has also been boldly said by honourable Members. But we do not give that to you, I am telling you with all the clarity, Madam Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Whoever screams as loud as the Member of Parliament has done, is wrong! Whenever you cry out, you're wrong, ladies and gentlemen. We of the EIA are in favour of a fair, clear debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7242	Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7263	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Without reference to Mr Dr. Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Feurstein, for his excellent report. These discussions were planned as talks with the presidents or secretary-generals of the social partners and not as such with the Vice-Presidents. If Vice-Presidents had also been planned, Vice-President Neugebauer should also have been involved, for example. So I have only invited at this level to this discussion and so I have brought this to the attention of the club members. I mean, the fairness needed to be clarified.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7299	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your comments. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7324	Mr President. High house! In view of the rather shaker series here, I will also try to take my remarks as short as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I always like to listen to you!]] Mr Khol! I would like to refer to a speech on the previous item on the agenda for the "Action Fairness". I am not concerned now with the dispute between ÖVP and SPÖ, but since Mr Nürnberger claimed that the chip card was, as it were, free from the smell of discriminating between workers and employees, I would like to correct it on this point. As the chip card is regulated in the ASVG and the ASVG is only so full of the distinction between the different groups, primarily between the workers and employees, the question should already be asked whether MP Nuremberger knows what he is talking about. If we want to have equality between workers and employees, this is a very massive matter for the ASVG – and that is true. I'm on the contents of this "Action Fairness". I do not see any points that the Greens could not carry. We ourselves have repeatedly pointed this out in the past. In this connection, I would remind you that a few days ago we decided on the federal law-enforcement law, but as far as the different right of dismissal and dismissal is concerned, the trade workers still have provisions in force under the commercial regulations of 1867, according to which open fire handling constitutes a cause of dismissal. It's not taken out! This has not been legalised. This is still true because it was not possible for you both to agree to a common right of dismissal and dismissal, which would at last free workers in the trade from these antique provisions. Disfellowshipping in the face is still considered a cause for dismissal – that is the usual right of dismissal, Mr Feurstein! Explain You can still represent this to someone! You can't represent it. The Minister for Economic Affairs, when I referred to him at the last trade debate and also made a request to abolish these provisions of commercial law, which are regulated in Annex I, replied that these provisions no longer exist, as his ministerial officials have explained to him. He was then instructed by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs that they still exist. Ladies and gentlemen! This is legal reality in Austria: 1867 – rash, open fire are reasons for dismissal. In some cases, we are really talking about materials where we need to be ashamed that we still have to debate and talk about them. One thing is clear: It will be very difficult in the ASVG. I'm already at the next point. We've got the 56. Novelle has already decided to cut off the 57th – that was also a point of the debate. Please, it cannot be true that in a parliamentary session we decide on two numbered and an unnumbered ASVG novelle, with which the rhythm of the revisions of the ASVG, by which the predecessor of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs said it should be simplified and codified, even more speeded up. There is a Commission dealing with codification, and I have only recently read that it has made progress. But on what basis? – Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission are discussing on the basis of 1995! It is absurd that this Commission should look at the ASVG on the basis of 1995 and try to codify it, while 1999 is already written and between 1995 and 1999. What we are permanently deciding on here in this area of social law is not only completely intrusive, but is incomprehensible to every citizen and every citizen. That was my only call during the speech of Mr Seidinger, whom I very much appreciate when he tried here to read a provision of the ASVG – or was it the GSVG?, I do not know anymore – it is not readable! Only this provision – in which he will certainly have to give me justice – is completely incomprehensible. – So to speak, to the general. Now I only take the GSVG again and make a comment on it: This federal government, these government parties – with a little more resistance from SPÖ, but with a lot of commitment from the ÖVP – which have stood for self-reserving, in every area! Mr Feurstein! They were one of the most vehement representatives of self-preservation. Come with the self-preserved, the health certificate fee – yes, great! Here with the self-preserved for school-free trips – ÖVP: yes, great! Here with the self-preserve also in the school books – yes, great! Mr Feurstein, what about the GSVG novel, isn't it great? In this there is a restraint for children of insured persons – and MP Feurstein is on this issue the "lonely" and "successful" advocates against self retention. Do you explain this logic to me? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Is it socially justified, Mr Feurstein, to abolish the right to self-hold for traders while leaving it for other professional groups? You know exactly what we're talking about. The system of self-retention is socially unjustified – in general! . because it means the same self retention for the low income as for those with high incomes. That is why we have to be against self-preservation in general. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Do you want the self-reservation for children?]] And this your regulation, the abolition of self-reservation only for the trader without the corresponding abolition, for example, the health certificate fee for the insured in the ASVG or in the statutory health insurance scheme, is not very clean and not fair, Mr. Feurstein, even if she finds the broad support of both government parties and is obviously a deal in which the 70 million schilling that costs this scheme is exchanged for some gift on the other hand. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Do you want him? We have children out there!]] I don't know what deal this is about, and sometime we'll find out. But, Mr Feurstein, this is not social and fair!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7411	The next speaker is Mr Morak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7432	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer here to an additional sentence from the colleague Kier, who briefly addressed the artist's social insurance. Actually, since the office of State Secretary Wittmann, he has tormented us with the claim that there will be artist social insurance: tomorrow, if not yesterday. – However, there are more questions than answers with each donation from the Secretary of State. The question of financing is open. How high is she? Nothing has been agreed with the companies, with the art producers to pay for it – neither with the music industry nor with the ORF, nor with the IFPI, nor with the copyright societies, nor with the gallerists. Remember: There has been a proposal that all companies producing art or so-called art should be held responsible for up to 10 million schilling. Then, of course, all the theaters that don't have any money protested, because then they would even collapse. It is a question of definition: Who is an artist at all? – Thinking They shall: On the one hand, we explain this concept very far, but it should be interpreted very closely for this point. Who explains that someone is an artist at all? Of course, this would like to go back to the funding framework, which means: Will it really be 150 million or 450 million schilling, this sum that is curing in the press? The question of the income limit then arises: To what height do we get them? At the moment there are 16 000 S. How many artists are involved, how many are affected by the reimbursement of these amounts? If one of these artists deserves more once a year, this is a relatively complex question that has not been answered. Nevertheless, we believe that social security for artists is necessary, that artists are also included in the social network, but so that they "survivor". Of course, this is only possible if you don't give news exclusively in the media and promise the artist's representatives everything, because you think you won't keep anything of it anyway. Hiebei is, of course, the more stony way to go, the way of persuasion, so as not to ask the wrong people to check out, so that those in the production sector do something for it and in this way take out their artist social insurance, namely their social security. The question is: What would be – as an alternative to all the proposals made by the Secretary of State in this regard – with the art promotion contribution that the ORF has taken up? That's 130 million schilling. What about the copyright companies and their SKE funds? – Many are of the opinion that they do not know what to do with the money. Or, if there is no other way, how about a simple discussion with the Minister of Finance? However, it is clear that money cannot come out of the production process in any way, because any sum taken out of the production process and spent on the pension means that less is produced. I mean, Mrs Federal Minister, that cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. I would ask you to tell the Secretary of State Wittmann once, because he does not listen to me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7479	Mr Dolinschek, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Similarly, 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7500	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We're now at the end of the XX. legislative period. There were at the last Social Committee meeting on 30 November. A large number of applications were made in June. This was a consequence of the fact that applications for the opposition have been postponed over the last four years. This is the result of such a wealth of applications. But we have been confronted with 28 amendments. I'm right, Dr. Feurstein: Parliamentaryism would not be a parliamentarianism if no amendments were to be tabled in the committees, but I believe that amendments are more appropriate for the opposition parties. If the coalition parties agree before the start of the committee, however, an opposition party will submit an amendment to a subject that makes sense in which you could go along with it, the opposition parties would also have the opportunity to participate directly in a legislative act. But in principle it is excluded. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We're at the 57 now. ASVG-Novelle – which has already been addressed more often – has arrived, but not only at the 57. ASVG-Novelle, but also the 27. ==References====External links==* Official website GSVG-Novelle and also the 23. BSVG-Novelle will be adopted today. That's more than 100 innovations without re-announcement. The whole thing is unclear, there are almost impenetrable transitional provisions. The trend towards more and more casuistic detailed solutions is causing an ever-increasing administrative burden. We have a law in Austria that is fragmented. We have the principle of equal treatment for all citizens, but this is in principle disregarded. The organization is divided, self-management has become expensive and inefficient. From my point of view, the existing legal situation is simply unreasonable and probably because of the rule of law – probably! – even unconstitutional, because not only the finding of the provisions in force is made more difficult by the countless novelles, but also the understanding of the legislator’s orders is made almost impossible by extremely complicated formulations, numerous cross-references and transitional provisions. A uniform legal basis for the social security of all Austrians would be obvious – this has already been mentioned by several previous speakers today – because almost all professionals are already involved in social security. Existing differences between the different groups are neither factually necessary nor justified from the point of view of equal treatment. The administrative organisation is also still the same today as it has been created in a historical way for the individual groups of workers. Many multi-drugs for the same administrative tasks today represent an unnecessaryly complex and expensive solution, without having any benefits to the citizens. We currently have a main association in Austria, 27 social security funds, 33 national offices and 116 foreign offices. In addition, there are still 100 regional branches of the AMS dealing with activities similar to social security. In my opinion, it is essential and extremely timely for the new edition or re-codification of the General Social Security Act, as well as for a step-by-step harmonisation of social security law and for a step-by-step restructuring of the social security administration to take account of the AMS.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7552	The next speech is by Mr Donabauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7574	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Perhaps I can raise Mr Dolinschek's sensitivity a little. He complains of the rejected requests. You are no longer aware of the fact that you yourself have left the committee. That was absolutely incorrect and incorrect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] You have also submitted applications on whose consequences you have not at all thought about, including the changes in the structure of social security, where you do not want to remove legal insurance and simply introduce the insurance obligation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek]] [[Abg. Blünegger: That's it!]] We will not agree to such requests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: (in the direction of the Freeman) Regardless of whether you are there or not!]] Secondly, It is true that we today have important laws to adopt, including those in the ASVG and the GSVG sectors. I would like to take refuge in Gottfried Feurstein, since he was attacked by Mr Ollinger, who thought he, Feurstein, had acted unjustly in reducing the retention of children in the GSVG. If the institution itself is able to afford it, please make an appropriate request, then as a legislator, we are certainly ready for a conversation. This has just been implemented. That is a correct thing; one can congratulate and need not be criticized for it. Thank you, Gottfried! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also decided on a novel to farmers. In short, this is about re-working in raising the minimum contribution base, and in this context we have corrected or modified the fictitious exposition. That was far from the last step, Mrs. Federal Minister. We're going to have to do some rework. It'd be nice if we could do this to you. We have now also regulated the involvement of secondary activities by law, a "story" that has been negotiated for over a year and a half. It has now been done in such a way that all activities which are not subject to a commercial authorisation are insured in the BSVG. We have agreed in the Social Law Amendment Act 1997 that all activities and their incomes are included in social security obligations in order to keep the whole system sustainable. That was the reason, and that is why we have also conducted these negotiations in such a way that we can partly use the new money that comes in for contribution-regulatory measures. I would like to thank you for the fact that I believe that the pressure on farmers to contribute is great, but the development of income is unfortunately not the same. I also refer to the amendment in which there is a legal clarification of § 181. This is a very important measure at the end of this legislative period in connection with the conversion from the money to the system of benefits in kind in the BSVG. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There are very many farewell speeches. I would just like to say the following: It was a very successful legislative period. We have made important decisions, starting from the pension reform, through the LKF system, i.e. the performance-oriented health care fund, up to many other important measures – including today's chip card. All of this has made it necessary for a tremendous pre-work, and it has been properly conducted. Social policy is sometimes controversial, something quite natural. Consensus was always sought, it was often found. Much has been achieved, some is or remains open. I thank Gottfried Feurstein and Annemarie Reitsamer. As the committee responsible, they were always those who tried to understand the interests of all. I would also like to thank all the other members of the committee. You, Mrs. Minister, a compliment and also thanks to your employees who have always cared for us in an excellent way. By "our" I understand the members of the National Council. I was able to get constantly well-designed documents that facilitated the work. - Thank you. We will continue to work on a good, target-oriented development in social policy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7652	Mrs Petrovic has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7673	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to see myself in all Soon a point which I personally and, I think, many in this House are very important, namely the artist social insurance. This is actually going to be in a kind of way and Do not regulate what we are not pleased with, although we have to agree to her – I say now – because otherwise a disaster threatens. It is not good that this House continues to do so. Mrs. Federal Minister! I cannot spare you the accusation that you personally and the entire federal government of a group of persons have paid too little attention to what some seem to have the opinion: They're supposed to look at how they get over the rounds. Others, on the other hand, are prejudiced that artists are those who are, in fact, from the full creation and anyway are among the beneficiaries of this earth, something that probably does not apply to 95 or 99 percent of the people who work in this sector, but we know that cultural artists today mostly struggle for their survival, are mostly active in other professions in order to afford their vocation as artists. Our accusations are now going in two directions: firstly, that it was still not possible to create a satisfactory regulation, namely a durable social security scheme, a social protection, which meets the low income level of most artists. The second accusation is that the tax system has not taken this into account. I know that this is not your own responsibility, but within the framework of the Federal Government, you would have had the opportunity to introduce yourself in the sense of taking into account the special working conditions in this sector, namely that, if artists have occasionally been successful, the tax would not be in full force, but it would be possible to divide such rare income flows for several years. I would like to mention that other countries were much more creative in it, for example Ireland has an enormous flow of cultural workers, because they are taxed – but in the sense of justice, not preference! A third criticism – this one, in turn, is particularly striking Her place, Mrs Federal Minister –: We know very little about the working conditions and the specific difficulties of individual sectors within the cultural industry. While there are good statistics on many other economic sectors, such as industrial employment, there is a very miserable data situation as regards cultural workers and their particular difficulties. This applies, for example, to entertainment music, which could be an important source of employment. You have no idea how many people are working in the film sector either, because they appear in statistics as taxi drivers, as nightporters or in other fields of activity – if at all – and not in their actual vocation. That's why we don't know where the special difficulties are located either: Is this more true of the production structures, the marketing structures, the social security systems, or is it a mixture of all these problems, what I would like to assume most? – Here, I think, once again, the analysis of the structure of the sector would have been a source of debt by the Ministry of Social Affairs in order to be able to take effective policy counter-control measures accordingly. I know that in Vienna, also with the help of the Greens, a lot is happening in this area now, that one will be commissioned for a study on the entertainment music industry. I regret that there has so far been very little input from the social authorities and I hope that this deficit will be resolved during the next legislative period. As I said, Of course, we agree to the exclusion of artists from the work contract scheme for another year. A satisfactory solution, however, is by far not just an emergency measure. In fact, you have to say very self-critically: A satisfactory solution for the artists is in the future far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7731	Mr Blünegger, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Excuse me, that was a mistake! It has previously been reported by Mrs Horngacher as a speaker. However, 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit apply. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7761	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The social package we are discussing today also includes significant improvements in rural social security from the point of view of agricultural representation. As a representative of the farmers in this House, I am particularly pleased about the reform of the farmer's pension, because when the farmer's pension was introduced in 1992, many farmers opted for an appropriate pension scheme according to the legal situation in force at the time. As part of the general savings package in 1996, the minimum number of insurance months was increased from 120 to 180. Thus, the farmers of the births from 1941 to 1946 were severely disadvantaged. The reform now under way is very welcome, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed to it and will now give her the approval – especially Mrs Hostasch and our chief negotiator Karl Donabuer, who has made great efforts to do so. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] From my point of view, it is absolutely necessary for people in our country to be able to adapt to and rely on the legal situation decided by the House. Many of the women concerned have opted for this form of female farmers' pension in confidence of the legal situation at the time. We are now eliminating disadvantages and avoiding social hardships through these new regulations. These are about 3,400 female farmers. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the socio-political successes which could be achieved at the initiative of the ÖVP in favour of the rural population. In addition to the introduction of the farmer's pension and the health insurance for farmers, the reduction of the fictitious exit, the increase in the weekly allowance, the introduction of the health certificate for farmers and now also the chip card could be decided. – Today, the social security legislation of agricultural ancillary activities is added. This social security is highly appreciated by the rural families, because the objective of anchoring the same security for farmers' families as for other occupational groups remains the same. One has to imagine the following: The young girls who marry a farmer have a job different from that of the farmer. They have the normal social security, holiday entitlement and so on. If they marry a farmer, social security must not be worsened by this, because that would be bad for this profession. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Especially in economically difficult times, there is a need for balanced social security so that the family business can continue to be maintained. As I am speaking last time of this speaker's chair, a few thoughts about politics at all: The great policy must ensure peace between the peoples – this is their essential task. The Party policy shows the principle programme of a party. We of the ÖVP have the Christian social doctrine as a principle program. Then there is the daily policy of matters, the regulation of things of daily life. You can now let others regulate them and be satisfied with them, but I have had the luck of being allowed to take part in them, to help the world get a little better, warmer and fairer – and that was important to me! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, I had a very special concern about the rural families and the children, because I think they are a little too short today. However, there has also been progress in this. I would like to thank all those who have helped. I also thank you for many interesting speeches, for brilliant spirit flashes that I enjoyed very much, and for the kindness I received. I wish you all many good decisions, exciting speeches and personal joy and happiness.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7840	On behalf of the Bureau, I can return these wishes to you, Mrs Horngacher. Unfortunately, I am not able to put a gift in your hand as well. I don't think that what's standing here would be adequate. Mr Blünegger has now been reported on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7865	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Feurstein, we Liberals agree that amendments can, of course, be tabled at any committee meeting, even to the extent that the coalition parties do. It would be better to send these to the other political groups in advance, so that they can talk about them properly in committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Mr Donabauer says he has pity for Mr Dolinschek, I can only answer him: Of course, the still great coalition of requests from us liberals, which include a change in the social security system, does not want to hear anything. What to lose You realize it? – The grain you have and which you also take advantage of. Therefore, you do not want to change. And I say to the address of the ÖVP that it should also introduce social and social security laws for the benefit of the social insured and not always just for the benefit of its party and its pledges. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is therefore appropriate, as I believe, for me to present a number of demands, Mrs Minister, which we would like to see liberals fulfilled in these strong social laws. We therefore call for separate votes in different areas. We also call for the extension of accident insurance to the activity of disabled persons and for the improvement of transitional provisions in the pension scheme. Other demands in various other areas are the content of further amendments to which we call for separate votes. We also call for a separate vote on agenda item 11. We have not agreed to the new contract staff law or the transfer of the health and accident insurance of the new contract staff to the BVA. We have therefore made these decisions, because we do not want survival aid for a social security fund threatened by extinction. Our massive criticism of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, goes in the direction that we can assure you that you do not want to unify social security law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They do not want to implement structural reforms in the field of social security schemes, as we propose, and that is different from you. And you want to keep your party political prizes so that the strength is not lost. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! We will try to make your pruning increasingly smaller! This is precisely our task, because you do not want to give it up voluntarily. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Some sentences on this "Action Fairness": Of course I am in favour of the fairness action, but with a difference: that it is not misused in a party political way. That is exactly what you have done here in this House today. You, as Social Democrats, believe that only you represent the workers! I don't think so, though. Their only concern is to regain workers as voters. - But you won't succeed. That's what you're going to do on the 3rd. No success on October because the voters have failed! The ÖGB has long been away from the independence it should have. He's being abused by you, party-politically! That's what happened again today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I was Vice President of the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers in 1998. I have tabled applications which have included a uniform worker concept. I always wanted to insist that there should be no difference between workers and employees. And what did the coalition in Tyrol do at that time? – You have rejected our requests! Today you want to build around the voters – three months before the National Council election! You won't succeed, because we liberals will salt this up to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7956	Mrs Haller has also been mentioned. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e7977	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a large number of social security laws are being modernised. Unfortunately, due to the lack of time and the overcrowding of the agenda, the opposition is not possible to respond to everything. Yes, we even innovation the ASVG twice in a day! Today we say goodbye to the 56. ASVG-Novelle and the 57.! In view of these facts, the motion for a resolution, 1015, has its right, Mr Donabauer, because we want at last a new system in the field of social security and social security institutions. Because of this knowledge of more than 100 innovations, which has already been made – but no re-explaination has been made – and because of cross-references without numbers, it is true that social legislation is no longer understandable to the citizen concerned! He can no longer understand and see them through. And this non-understanding ability of the legislator's orders is, in my view, unconstitutional. I'd like to take a brief look at the 57. ASVG-Novelle. For example, there has not been a complete review procedure for these. Ruck, snap and fast, she had to be brought over the stage quickly. This has done something that is very similar to the practices of farmers: In an unfair way, the framework conditions for opting out have been changed – and they are constantly changing, although the stakeholders in the GSVG had to make decisions in their confidence in Austrian legislation. So did the farmers, dear Kathi Horngacher. I am pleased for you that this provision has now passed, but it must already be mentioned that it was exactly the same ÖVP, which, from 1996 onwards, has tied up the savings packages and created conditions, with us liberals already in 1992 pointing out that there could be difficulties there, which have actually occurred and where you are now – at last! – again after years of corrections. So high time! I am also glad about it, but that is certainly no reason why the EIA is trying to put a feather on the hat in this area. We have very little time today, as I said, and I am very sorry because I still have a lot to say about it. Only the following: The Austrian social legislation is not only not social and not fair, as Mr Oellinger said, but it is also very unprofessional – otherwise these permanent changes would not be necessary – and therefore so unheard of that I already have to suspect that intention and method are behind it. I am really sorry for the Austrian citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8018	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8039	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has been put in the room by Mrs Haller, but also by others, the desire for a uniform, easy-to-read, easy-to-understand social security law. Each of us, as I mean, through a law, has the desire to recognize, to see through everything with a glance and to experience it quite simply and transparently. But, ladies and gentlemen, life is not linear! Life itself is not easy. The Life is determined by many issues, by changing fates and thus also needs. Our society is not uniform, it is not uniform, and that is also good. I don't think we want them uniform either. The needs of farmers are different from the needs of workers and employees; The needs of self-employed are different from those of members of the professions. It is therefore right that a demanding, modern, forward-looking social security right should take into account these differences, and that it should be kept in mind again and again. It is therefore true that a few days ago, when we were able to present the opinions of the constitutional and social insurance experts, Mr President Jabloner said that our social security laws are among the most modern and future-oriented. These are laws which are not developed by case law, but by legal design, design based on the needs of people. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, my predecessors and I am also interested in improving the transparency and structure of social security legislation. That is why Mr Jabloner and other experts have been asked to provide a basis for this. The first major step could recently be announced to the public in order to make proposals in the form of opinions on how the structure of social security rights can be made more understandable without changing the content or objectives. I hope that, as planned, the experts and the President of the Administrative Court will in the foreseeable future be able to make policy proposals as to how we can achieve this objective. I would like to thank you for referring to the various points in these laws, all the points that the Parliament has given to my predecessor and to me: Include all incomes in a fair and just form, further development and, accordingly, more social justice in our society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8082	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your comments. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on 57. Amendment to the ASVG in 2004 to the Supplements, taking into account the print error correction provided by the rapporteur. Mr Oellinger asked for a separate vote on paragraph 1a. In addition, honourable Member has power. The main request for a separate vote with regard to paragraphs 1, 3a, 5a, 6, 7a and § 581 para. 1 point 1a, § 581 para. 1a and § 581 para. 3 in paragraph 8. Firstly, we will vote on the parts affected by the two requests for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 1, taking into account the correction of the print error in the version of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done with a single vote. Therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 1a as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I will ask you for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 3a, 5a, 6, 7a and Article 581 para. 1 point 1a, § 581 para. 1a and § 581 para. 3 in paragraph 8, as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, which have not yet been voted, taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur, in the version of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We therefore come to the third reading. If you would also like to give your consent at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2005 report of the supplements. In the event of your notice, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2006 report of the supplements. If you agree, I would ask you to give you an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has also been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2007 report of the supplements. If you would like to take note of the report, I would like to ask you for an appropriate sign. – It is done by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2008 report on the supplements. If you want to join him, I'll ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2011 report on the supplements. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. This report has also been taken note of. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Karenzgeldgesetz, in 2012. Hiezu has Deputy Mag. The main point is a request for a separate vote. We shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We therefore first proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 (2) (a), 4(a) and 21(a) as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. If you would like to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Commercial Social Security Act in 2013. Hiezu has Deputy Mag. The main request for a separate vote with regard to points 3b, 6a and 7. Mr Oellinger also asked for a separate vote on paragraph 7. Finally, Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to paragraph 7. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request for a separate vote and the amendment tabled, finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 3b and 6a as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Mr Mag. The President and Mr Oellinger, Member of the European Parliament, each have a request for a separate vote on paragraph 7, paragraph 281. 4a. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this part of the draft law as part of the Committee's report. – This is the case with the vote. Accepted. The Members of Parliament Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 7, Section 281 para. 4b. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall be voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask you, if you would like to give him your consent, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. If you would like to give the draft law a third reading, I would ask you to give a sign. – This is done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2014 report of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2015 report of the supplements. If you would also like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority, therefore noted. We shall also vote on the draft law in 2016 of the Supplements. Hiezu has Deputy Mag. The main point is a request for a separate vote on paragraph 16. We shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 16 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done in a single light. I note: accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also wish to give their approval at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. I note, therefore, that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 2017 report of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. That concludes the voting procedure. 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1857 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Disability Act; and on the motion for a resolution 806/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on legal recognition of the dogs of the blind as an aid; and on the motion for a resolution 835/A (E) by Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades on legal recognition of the blind dog as an aid and a service dog (2018) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Herbert Haupt and comrades concerning a federal law which amends the aid concept in general Social Security Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (2019 the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8419	I now call on points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We do not have oral reports and therefore immediately enter the debate. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is the first speaker to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8446	Ladies and gentlemen! We have already talked about disability issues several times this week, and this could actually be a good sign, namely, a sign of awareness for the disabled, and in fact it could also be a sign that Parliament has recognized that there has been a great deal of guilt for the disabled in the past legislative period – and that the disabled are able to do a lot more. I deliberately say "could" because, in fact, last week we were only talking about what demands were not met and what handicaps remain. For example, we have been talking about the fact that the valorization of the care allowance has not taken place for the past four years. We have also discussed the fact that there is no quality assurance on an international standard for old-age homes, for disabled people. Today, we are again discussing a demand that is extremely important to the disabled, namely the classification of dogs of the blind as a means of aid. In fact, the disabled people wanted blind dogs – just like a wheelchair or a sickbed – to be classified as an aid so that they could also have better access to this aid. It is one year's call for the inclusion of blind dogs in this aid catalogue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not only with regard to the blind dog, it is an urgent requirement for it to be included in the catalogue, but it also applies to the partner dog or the signal dog; it should also be classified as an aid. It's about financing over and over again. And once a blind dog or partner dog is classified as an aid, it is also easier to finance. Now it is true that the blind have to go back and forth, whether they will receive a grant for their dog in the blind or whether they will get such a dog at all and so on. And this trick will certainly have no end to what is being decided here today with this government proposal. This means that a legitimate, a long-term claim of the disabled has not been met. And I'm surprised, because on the basis of this government proposal, you even write about the importance of the blind dog. Here's what it says: A number of blind and highly visually impaired people need the blind dog as a very valuable help in dealing with daily life. And you also write that a blind dog would secure the risk-free movement even in untrusted surroundings. It would do anything to say: Yes, this is a tool that is simply indispensable to which there is more or less a legal claim. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As I said, But you have that – unfortunately God! – not made! They obviously still believe that abuse will be done if the aid catalogue is extended. They obviously believe that a blind person buys a dog, uses it as a shot dog, and declares it to the social security institution, or whoever to whom as a blind dog, as a necessary tool! – Give Finally, I would like to ask you for this distrust! You don't have such a thing in other areas either! I do not understand why the disabled are being overshadowed with your distrust at all! With regard to partner dogs, I have tabled a motion for a resolution, because just as important as being a blind dog for the blind, it is the partner dogs for other disabled people. You must imagine that there are disabled people who cannot even open a door. There are disabled people who need human help when they want to go shopping, and there are trained dogs that can do all this for people. I looked at this myself, in Salzburg, where partner dogs are trained. It is truly impressive with what care and purpose these dogs are trained with! I am convinced that it would make a quality leap in disability care if more disabled people had a partner dog. Most disabled people cannot afford a partner dog at the moment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution; unfortunately, in the Committee you have already rejected it from God, but I hope that you will now think about it. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to reconsider your rigid attitude shown in the Committee and to use this opportunity today to meet a truly justified demand from the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8568	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8593	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, you will certainly also be dealing with representatives of the various interest groups of people with disabilities. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Running!]] That's what I believe. And that is why you certainly know that there are different needs of people with different disabilities. The discussion about partner dogs is currently rather in the foreground, and it refers mainly to an institution that you probably looked at in Salzburg – I don't know, you didn't mention any names. In any case, there is an institution there which has a particularly high level of awareness in this context. However, I am well aware of the opposite; namely, from the descriptions of a woman with disabilities who has been outraged for one and a half pages of letters about how she was treated when she was interested in the acquisition of a partner dog. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This does not change the need for such partner dogs at all, once there are problems in their acquisition!]] We need to discuss what a partner dog is and which dogs for which disabilities must have what characteristics. That's what it's all about! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The disabled themselves know what they need!]] Human beings are at the heart of our policies, including justice and equal opportunities. But these goals are also to be defined in such a way that they are human dynamic – we have heard before: Life means change – and the laws can be further developed according to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The present amendment to the Federal Disability Act is an example of such a policy of improvements; in this case for the affected disabled people. It must be ensured that the dog is healthy, that it is properly trained, and that it is in line with the criteria for the achievement of which the daily life of the disabled is improved. Short: This dog is supposed to be a help to the disabled person. I think the legal definition of what a blind dog is at all is the basis for this... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not the problem! The disabled person knows for himself what he needs!]] – You yourself know, Mrs Partik-Pablé, that the examination regulations are still being worked on, and we hope they will be completed by autumn. I think that we can then continue to discuss on this basis how possible further improvements would be made in the form of legislation. In fact, there is the term "service dog", there is the term "partner dog", there is the term "signal dog", there is the term "heil therapy dog", and probably each of us understands something else among them; also the different groups of those affected. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The disabled want a dog – and no legal definition!]] Of course this is a problem! If you want to secure quality... [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I'm afraid of dogs, but I've been very intense about it, just because there's a gap in me in these areas because I don't know that well. Of course, this is precisely the problem that it is necessary to ensure that a dog whose training is very expensive is healthy and has to bring with it appropriate conditions so that, depending on the degree of disability, the person can also work with this dog and thus he actually has a support. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Again: The disabled want a dog and no legal definition!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! In particular, the disabled people come to us and want a legal definition, and if you ask for this, you can see that there are different wishes within the disabled associations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It is really incredible how you deal with the real needs of disabled people!]] We will certainly have to deal with this issue further in the next legislative period. With this decision today, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are developing the legal framework for greater security and equal opportunities for people whose quality of life can be improved by a healthy and appropriately qualified blind dog. [[Abg. Young: This lasts until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day!]] Your contributions today have always been speaking to or against you, no matter how much you want to call it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Don't always be so aggressive!]] We need more equal opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, but also in the world of work. And I'll give you that right, Mrs. Partik-Pablé: Although we have a law on the setting up of disabled persons, we note in the implementation that, for example, quite a lot of duties are not occupied. I therefore ask myself: Where do we call for more equal opportunities? We would have the legal basis for this! These are things that are important to us. Just as we – now that our colleague is stupid no longer here in the hall – are constantly demanding compliance with the requirements, we also consider justice in the working world to be particularly important. The workers – and perhaps one can boldly align Dr. – have nothing but their labour force to sell. Finally, they are still those who are economically dependent, which is why the argument that workers' rights should be reduced and that they should be termed 'fairness towards businesses' must actually be seen as an increase. I would ask you to extend Mr Dr. Stumpfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our policy is to give people a chance in this life. To give people more opportunities, this applies to people with disabilities as well as to workers, and we want to... [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Do you think that a disabled person cannot work?]] - Of course! That's what I said earlier! We also want the compulsory figures to be fulfilled. However, there are also workers who have no disability, Mrs Haidlmayr. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But they have better protection!]] I think you should recognize the positive of this intention once and not feel immediately attacked. I give you the hand to work together on positive things, and I would be very pleased if you would accept them. [[in the direction of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] I would ask you to extend this to the Chamber of Commerce, to the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce in this House: Do not continue to prevent the implementation of the "Action Fairness"! Give all people in this country a fair chance!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8810	Mrs Haidlmayr has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8832	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy, your request to create disabled jobs while at the same time fulfilling the obligation to set up the disabled, please write to the Social Democrats ten times behind each ear! You have obviously forgotten that it is also your resorts – I only mention the Ministry of the Interior – that have not fulfilled the disability requirement for decades, but have freed themselves by billions of schillings over the last ten years. Try to enforce this in your own group, in your own ministries – and then we will talk further! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: What does "own ministry" mean here?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: We have SPÖ ministers, but no SPÖ ministers!]] However, this accusation is not only addressed to you from the SPÖ: The ÖVP is also more than fair in its ministries. Mrs. Silhavy! So it is not possible for you to stand out here and stand firm for the law on equal opportunities and the duty of recruitment, if you know at the same time that in your own ministries, in the ministries of the SPÖ, there is a lot of wild growth going on. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: There are ministries led by SPÖ!]] To the blind dogs. Mrs. Minister, it has been – and this can be said – a piece of car, but it is just a piece of car, and that is why it has already been overdue, because nothing has gone on in these areas for years at all. It would be inappropriate to announce everywhere because of this small change, which has not been done for the blind. – You didn't do anything! One has only bended a little of their pressure – I emphasize: bending, that was not voluntary! The blind people have fought for years for this improvement. Mrs. Silhavy! You don't know, you've only recently been a disabled speaker, and you've never discussed the subject of "impeded people" – as far as I could see it in committees, in committees, in events – before. You were nowhere to see, and no one knew you either. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Haidlmayr! ...Oh, what!]] Mrs. Minister! I would now like to make an amendment concerning the examination committee, which corresponds to the requests of particularly blind people or was already included in opinions. At present, it is not sufficiently clear who is responsible for this audit committee, for these audit regulations. Mrs Minister, it would be easy for the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs to organise and assess the Blinderführde-Fruitungskommission. The parties concerned, the companies, those who have to pay for the costs, private sponsors and the dog leaders have the certainty that the examination regulation cannot be changed at random. Information on the Examining Regulation would reach the relevant interested parties on an official, comprehensible basis. Mrs. Minister! That must be possible, it will cost nothing! It's just about whether you want – or not. In any case, I hope you will agree to this amendment. That must be possible, Mrs Silhavy, it will cost nothing! However, I would also like to address the situation of blind people, because it is still not natural for blind people to be allowed to enter a grocery store with their blind dogs, cinema or theatre, and it is not even ensured that they are allowed to drive their blind dogs on public transport. – Please be sure! I hope they also believe that every human being should have the right to get his food. However, this does not apply to blind people, for they must not enter food shops with their blind dogs. And they must not go to every theater, they must not go to the cinema or, as I have said, to public transport. Mrs Minister, you have to make it clear: A blind dog is an essential part of a blind person; he assists him, he leads him, and he facilitates him many tasks of everyday life. Why, Mrs Minister, do you still make it so difficult for blind people and do not make sure that there is free access for people, especially for blind people with their blind dogs, everywhere and at a zero rate? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8940	Mrs Haidlmayr, you have not read your amendment as a whole. He wouldn't have been properly introduced if you didn't read it all. If that's what you're going to do, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e8955	The application is as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9014	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9038	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé said that nothing had happened for the disabled during this legislative period. – For the disabled, too much can never be done, and the disabled also need what has been put into their mouth so often, namely an "action fairness" towards the disabled. That's what I'm calling myself. We must also say, however, that on Tuesday, for example, a number of things have happened with the Law on the Elimination of Disadvantaged Discrimination in Care Care, by the anchorage in the Federal Constitution and by the Law on Disability. And this novelle is another important step for a group of people, namely, blind and visually impaired people. This initiative is due to the concerns of two citizens' initiatives – Mr Haidlmayr was there – which were introduced here in the House and supported with 50,000 signatures. The disabled have argued that a blind dog is a very important aid for them. It is important for the mobility of blind people, and it is not to be replaced by a technical tool. So it is a great help in dealing with everyday life. Their main requirement was for quality control in dog training, on quality criteria that ensure quality safety. And this novel brings this security. The interested parties told us: A blind person, when he receives a dog, needs to know if he is healthy, what he can and what the blind person can expect from the dog in question. – A positive assessment by experts is therefore a very important help to be able to assess this overall. But this is not only a security for blind and visually impaired people, but also for breeders, for there were different views. And for those people who train these dogs, it is a very important thing that they know what they should value in training what a blind dog can do. That disabled people should have access to all public buildings – I believe that we all agree that this is urgently necessary. In general, I would like to say: Unfortunately, there is no law that can remove a disability, but it is very likely that it will make it easier to live with disabilities. And this novel is one of them.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9093	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Chief. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9115	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's government proposal, which is now in the process of decision-making, is certainly in terms of quality assurance, as Mrs Gatterer has done, which will bring some improvements, but also of quality assurance, I would have liked to take into account not only domestic regulations, but also quality assurance. For many people with disabilities, but also for people with other disabilities, who need not only dogs of the blind but also dogs of partners or other dogs of service as a means of assistance, the Austrian market is often too small or too expensive due to scarce financial resources, so that quality assurance would have been an important matter for imported animals – and not only about dogs with the blind. I would, however, like to express my clear opposition to Mr Silhavy and her comments. It has not been for disabled people to get legal definitions, because they have already received them in many areas, but the implementation of these legal definitions is unfortunately very hesitant and very bad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to remind you, Mrs Silhavy, that this Federal Government is on the day of the year 1. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Federal Ministry of Youth, the Environment and the Family and the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of October 1998 had a lot to do with the disabled. The Ministry of the Interior with 599 and the Federal Ministry of Education and Art were top-ranking with 1,144 positions to be occupied under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. If so, then with 1. In January 2000, the legal changes are coming, I hope to predict today that, for example, the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family, which goes beyond the current framework with only nine posts, will find it difficult to complete its framework. You are therefore mistaken, Mrs Silhavy, if you think that disabled people have equal or similar opportunities or others have equal chances. The unemployment statistics show that the disabled, particularly those with disabilities and hearing problems, and among them women, are particularly affected by unemployment. We liberals would have wished that during this legislative period not only the blind dog but also the other apostrophic classes of dogs who are provided with the disabled should be recognized as aid. I do not understand the following, Mrs Silhavy: In other areas, social security is well able to provide hearing and sighting aids such as hearing aids, eyeglasses and other visual aids which correspond to their degree of disability. Why, then, should it not be possible for the severely disabled to exercise the disability according to justice and to grant service dogs, in the broadest sense of the word, according to the disability and not according to the wallet? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9170	Deputies! A motion for an amendment was not tabled by you? - I just want to find out. [[Abg. May. Main: Mrs Partik-Pablé brought that in!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I submitted the request!]] That was a motion for a resolution. Please, if it's cleared up. Mrs Motter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9213	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision-making, which amends the Federal Disability Act, is moving forward two citizens' initiatives with 50,000 signatures. The citizens have voted in favour of this, and so we will change it today. I am aware of that – and I would like to say this to the previous speakers – that we need to do much more for the disabled, but I believe that it is a first decisive step, because at last there will be a uniform legal regime for dogs with the blind. We all know that the blind dog is a very valuable help in dealing with daily life for a number of blind or highly handicapped people. In the event of appropriate training, blind dogs can largely compensate for the problems of perception of people with disabilities, provide support in the area of mobility and enable the risk-free movement, even in an unfamiliar environment. We Liberals have always used ourselves for disabled people, especially for our blind fellow citizens, and this has moved us to do so, on 8 May. I am very pleased that I can and can still take this opportunity to support the motion for a resolution on legal recognition of the blind dog as a means of aid. Ladies and gentlemen! Please allow me to take my speech on the occasion of your approval of all of you and of the House after 13 years of activity! [[General condolences.]] In retrospect – ladies and gentlemen, I think you all do – you remember the beautiful hours, and I like to do so. Although political life is always an up and down, for me the work in the National Council, which I have been listening to since 1986, was a beautiful and profitable time. I was very happy to be able to work here. As a member of the various committees, I have dealt more closely with the various materials, and this has given me the opportunity to deal with many concerns. Despite many different views, the work in the committees was, in most cases the negotiations with you, ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups, were factual and constructive. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, disagreements of opinion and opinion are an essential feature of the democratic process of discussion and decision-making, and it is up to us Members not to bring these differences into the public as small-cared disputes, but to develop a public culture of dispute and discussion, which is designed not to cause citizens to doubt the democratic institutions, but to motivate them to actively use their democratic rights. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens.]] Please allow me to say goodbye: This responsibility for democracy would be very important to me, and its acceptance in the political debate should not be pushed too much into the background. That was my request without teaching you or otherwise wanting to take any advantage of it. Finally, I would like to thank the honourable Members here in the House for their cooperation. But my thanks also go to all the employees of this house, because without their work in the background the smooth operation would not be possible. I wish you all the best for your future! Above all, health and much joy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9267	Mrs. Mother! I can tell you very briefly from the Bureau that I am very happy to return to you the good wishes you have just expressed to all of us – unfortunately, but not this gift that you have now received. [[Abg. You've got to make a couple of things!]] Yes, my colleague, but not in the form of how the gift has been presented! That would be a little bit curious – at least here. For the second time, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Chief. 1 minute speaking time is still at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make the following request to the present government template. [[Quoted print version removed]] We are talking, as we have already said, about the fact that the disabled who cannot control a motor vehicle itself are in the same way as those who buy a motor vehicle for themselves. However, I would also like to congratulate Mr Klara Motter for her further life course and personally for her good cooperation. Even after our separation and the completion of the joint work, we have set up a lot of joint initiatives. I thank you, in particular, for having been so successful in protecting animals!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9355	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Hostasch has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9379	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! They have already passed an important law this week, which has been aimed at protecting people from our own business-making. It is all the more important to do this in the case of people with disabilities, and I therefore believe that it is so important that, with very great support from the Austrian Blind Association, it has succeeded in achieving this legal definition, which is now the subject of decision-making. I would also like to express my express thanks to Mr Martini for the information, knowledge and commitment he and his colleagues have brought in. I regret that he is not available again as President, but I am convinced that, with Professor Guggenberger, very good cooperation will continue to be possible in the interests of the severely disabled and the blind. It has been addressed the question of the testing and the understanding of the quality of the dogs in the blind. I may refer you to § 39a para. I would also like to point out that, in our view, the audit committee set up by the Austrian Blind Association is a good and appropriate institution to assess and carry out quality assurance. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to inform you that, in the sense that my department is trying to offer very citizenly services, information and advice, we are in the process of ensuring that our Federal Social Offices as primary contact partner and also as coordinating partners are available on all questions of disability. And I hope that this will provide some relief for people who are particularly difficult in our society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9415	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your comments. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. I would ask you to take the places now because we are going to vote separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law in 1857. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. Mr Magistrate also has power. The main point is a request for a separate vote. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above and on the request for separate votes, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. In this sense, we shall proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 11 of the draft law as it stands. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted an additional request relating to the insertion of a point 11a. In the case of your consent, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 13. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We are now voting on this part of the draft law as it stands. In the event of approval, I would like to ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I would ask you to give an appropriate sign in case of your consent. – This is accepted by a single vote. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is also done with unit of vote. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades on the recognition of dogs for the blind and other animals capable of helping the disabled and the sick as an aid. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report in 2019. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. That concludes this voting procedure, but I would like to point out that only three speakers have been reported for the next item on the agenda, so we will have a vote again immediately. 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1144/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Journalist Law (2020 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9540	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. Since we do not have oral reports, we shall immediately come to the debate. The first speaker was Mr Dietachmayr. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9567	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, there are about 4,000 journalists – many of them are also interested in our work here in this House, and that is important and true so – of which about 2,000 are so-called free employees of a media company. This number of free employees is constantly increasing, it is growing. It is usually also new entrants in this profession. And for these 2,000 free employees of media companies today is an important and joyful day. With this amendment to the Journalisation Act, we decide on the legal basis for the conclusion of general contracts relating to the fees and expenses for permanent free employees of a media company. What are free employees? – They are often, as already mentioned, new entrants, who usually start their career as a free employee. It could also be said that it is a sloppy service relationship, but it requires full performance in the event of poor pay and under sometimes bad working conditions. Free employees obviously do not have notice periods and can theoretically – and in practice sometimes – stand there every day without employment and therefore without regular income. I've been told that the immediate outrage was going on, and that's what's going on. The provisions currently in force are merely collective agreements-like recommendations, but they are not acceptable in the absence of legal coverage. The economic position of the free journalists is comparable to that of the domestic workers, so the rules of the Home Labour Act on the home labour contracts are also a model for these provisions which we decide today. Once again, in 1979, there was a government proposal on this subject. However, the decision-making failed, and I am therefore very glad that it is now ready for these free employees to receive collective contractual capacity. We can be proud of this decision, because I also see it as a contribution to more fairness in the world of work, and the issue of fairness has already been addressed several times in this House today. The collective treaty capacity for free journalists is now being decided. I therefore wish the negotiators a good conclusion today and the free workers in our media world, who also deserve a minimum degree of security in their responsible profession, all the good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9619	Mr Dr. Drink. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9641	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are actually entering new country with this template. It is the first time that the conditions for concluding a collective agreement for free workers are created in a professional sector. I do not want to go as far as Mrs Bundesminister, who has said in the Committee that this is a'milestone'. It is a mark that you should observe very, very carefully, but also not anymore. It is true that the trend is that more and more employment relations with free workers are being completed, but one must also be able to ask the question: Why is that so? Why do more and more people decide to work as free employees, not to get fixed as employees? . I believe that there is also an attempt, in agreement with the employer, to counteract the rigid provisions of our legal provisions. It is not true that someone is forced to work as a free employee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I have already said from this point of view, Mr Schwemlein, that this is the 21st time. The 19th century will require more flexibility from us than the 19th century. ==References== I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must accept this, I believe. We must accept that if people want to work on a more free basis. Nevertheless, the conclusion of collective agreements has so far been a matter for the social partners, and it is therefore necessary to be careful if we are to create two types of law in sectors. We must take a very careful look at the matter, because then the law enforcement becomes more complicated. All those who have to do with labour law will agree to me. Nevertheless, as well as my previous speaker, Mr Dietachmayr, I recognise this, we have a different situation in this area. If around 50 percent of the people in a sector are employed as constantly free employees, it is, I believe, right and important for these employees to create their own rules. It is therefore obvious that we are going to join this proposal because it would simply not be useful to force these free employees into the Journalist collective agreement for employed employees. As I said, As an exceptional situation, this proposal is correct and important, rather than a model for other industries.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9699	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9720	High house! In fact, I wanted to be removed from the list of speakers, but honourable Member Drinkl has given me thanks to God a key word that has led me to report to an exciting execution. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Otherwise you would not have been able to speak, Mr. Cot!]] He said that it was necessary to accept it if people are to work in freer working conditions. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I I will turn this over to the colporteurs who are looking forward to nothing as much as they can or must stand on the road as so-called free servants. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Are we of the opinion that colporteurs are not journalists? Are we in the mood?]] You know just as well as I do that is not the case. And that's what I'm saying, unfortunately, also applies to journalists. Agreed! This is also the reason why I did not want to speak in and for myself, because I admit that this regulation is better than anything we had before, and that is why we agree. However, it is still in the form of the fact that the status of the permanent free workers, workers' contractors, employees' employees is unsatisfying, as is the case with journalists. Especially for journalists who deal with opinions, have to deal with opinions and are under constant pressure to whom they are actually responsible with what they write, namely the reader, the editor, the chief editor or, for my part, the advertising department, it is an unsatisfying state! This group of persons, which is actually part of the editorial work and in which the status of this constantly free employee is in principle a circumvention stock, has no easy life. We all know that. We know that there is no other way at present to improve this situation for journalists, but that is also the only reason why it warrants such a provision in the law or to make it that way. That is why it is progress, but it is actually unsatisfactory. And here I am again with colleagues Drinkl, who says that this is valid for an industry, but it should not become a rule for all sectors. However, I should also like to point out, Mr Drinkl, that this is unfortunately already the case in many sectors. I am thinking only of the transport sector – Mr Parnigoni nodds – where the status of self-employed is simply a disaster. That is to say, we should observe with a little more attention than the previously floating boundaries and the attempt to make self-employed people out of actual workers and also consider in principle how labour law can take account of the new circumstances, so that it again provides clear boundaries and makes better provisions of the demarcations than is the case at present, whether this is the work contract scheme or the other legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9769	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9791	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I Perhaps we can agree on the word "breakthrough" when evaluating this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: New country!]] I am convinced that this law for the first time has provided a legal basis for the possibility of concluding a collective contract for permanent free employees in media companies and that this has also ensured a normative effect of collective contract provisions. It is for the first time that workers-like situations can also be included in the protection provisions of the collective contract and its effects. I admit that we are entering New Zealand, but a very important new country, because we know that the working world is developing in very diverse ways. We must therefore also ensure that some equivalent conditions and protection provisions exist. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the impression is given here that free workers choose this activity from their own hands and are referred to journalists, I must say that this may be true for some. However, I actually know more people who, instead of being free employees, would rather be in an employee relationship to be as secure as possible in terms of labour law regulations. It is therefore very important for those who, whether voluntary or involuntarily, are in another legal situation, to be able to achieve collective contractual protection. I would therefore like to thank you for being able to make this decision together.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9838	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your comments. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Since we do not have the rapporteur's final word, we shall vote and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall vote on the draft law, the title and receipt of the supplements in 2020. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is unanimity and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to vote in third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is the case with the vote. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. 20. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1145/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a federal law amending the labour market service law, the labour market promotion law, the unemployment insurance law 1977, the labour market policy financing law, the labour contract law adaptation law, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (2021 of the Supplements) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1150/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr Gottfried Feurstein and comrades on a federal law amending the law on night heavy work, the Holiday Law and the Unemployment Insurance Act (2022 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9906	We now come to the points 20 and 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The rapporteur on item 20 is Mrs Steibl. I would like to give her the floor to a print error correction to the written Committee Report 2021 of the Supplements. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9924	The following are to be taken into account in the report 2021 of the Supplements: First: In Article 3 Z 17 it is in § 56 para. 2 Z 3 to replace the word "intrusion" with the word "intrusion". Secondly, In Article 6 Z 2, a indent shall be set after the word "related" instead of the indent. Thirdly, In Article 6, an execution mark must be set at the end of the Z 13 – in front of the point. Fourth: In Article 6 Z 14, the term "according to paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 and 4" by the expression "in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4". 3 and 4" to be replaced. Fifth, you open a bottle In Article 6 Z 15 the term "Unemployed Insurance Act 1977" must be replaced by the term "Unemployed Insurance Act 1977" in the case of the first use, and the addition must be removed from the quotation mark before the term "Other Education Money". Sixteenths: In Article 7 Z 4, at the beginning of the second sentence, the word "she" must be replaced by a large S. Seventeenths: In Article 7, an execution mark must be set at the end of the Z5 – before the point. Eighth: In Article 7 Z 7, in the heading to § 282, the word "conclusion provisions" must be replaced by the term "conclusion determination". Nineteenths: In Article 8, at the end of the Z5, before the point, an execution mark shall be placed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e9973	Thank you very much, rapporteur, for your detailed and apparently very necessary comments. There is no further wish for oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. The first speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10004	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Labour Contract Adjustment Act and the Labour Market Service Act include aid for the promotion of part-time work. Women should follow this template from 52 onwards. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Years of the coming year can go in part-time. The conditions and conditions for a reduction in the normal working time of up to 50 percent are that the employee receives virtually 75 percent of his previous salary, continues to pay pension and health insurance contributions to the full amount, and is guaranteed to finish at the level of the last earnings – with the recruitment of additional workers in the course of the reduction of working time of older workers. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] If the woman concerned is 50 years of age or older. ==References====External links== A maximum of five years should be paid back to the service provider for gross wage compensation, including social security contributions, up to the maximum basis of assessment by the labour market service. But there is a certain problem. It is all right for pension and health insurance contributions to be paid in the corresponding amount, and for a person, although only 50 percent of his work, to receive 75 percent of his wages, I find myself in order. But it's already eating up when it's finished. If someone gets the discharge from the last deal and does not receive an increase for three years, then later he gets much less money in his handling. If he is working part-time in these three years and is practically out of work, he, for example, has less than 25 000 s in the case of 1 000 s, after 25 years of processing. That's a very simple bill. Who of the service providers is willing to do so because he has two employees in principle? – No employer will be willing to place a skilled worker with 57 years of age on part-time and hire someone who does not know whether he is fulfilling the same task as his predecessor or partner to the same extent. That doesn't make a service provider. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If a person is not disease-sensitive or often goes on a cure, then no service provider will be interested in such a solution at all. This solution is maximum for large businesses, it is not in question at all for small businesses. We will reject these measures because they are inappropriate and unpracticable. In addition, there is less chance of becoming unemployed, with the much worse chance of finding a new job, especially in the case of old age unemployment. In principle, this proposal does not impose any measures to make the working hours of older employees cheaper for the service provider, e.g. by reducing the remuneration and by compensating for the labour market service. It will now be added to measures which we have rightly called abuses in the introduction of the Labour and Social Rights Amendment Act in 1997, but at the same time it is perceived as a real reason to take initiatives against old-age unemployment. I am still addressing the bonus malus system in this context. The bonus is fine, but the malus, as we have always criticized it, is a shot at the back. We have always said this critically, and now this bonus-malus system is to be limited, which also suggests that the success of this measure has been limited – and now the coalition has come upon it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10062	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10083	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present decision implements the Pact for older workers. Although we have a trend change on the labour market, the improvement of the employment data of older workers has not been achieved to the same extent as with other age groups. With this package of measures, it is now necessary to ensure that workers from a certain age are kept in employment for longer, best until they are transferred to retirement, and thus to give them prospects. Today we create the legal conditions for this. The focus is on two models for part-time working, which give older workers the possibility of reducing working time with social protection. With the Labour and Social Rights Amendment Act 1997, we have decided on measures such as educational leave, solidarity premium model and more. After initial experience, this will be more practical and attractive today. In order to promote the employment of older workers, it is also necessary to provide for accompanying measures in the field of social security. For workers for whom a part-time, part-time or solidarity premium scheme is granted to the employer, there should be no disadvantage in calculating benefits from health insurance and pension. The time of reference for further training is to be taken into account as a replacement period in pension insurance. Access to the sliding board is to be made more attractive; in the future, the minimum size of the sliding board is to be 50 percent of the full pension. If the employment is discontinued, from this date onwards, the sliding pension shall be continued as a partial pension of up to 80 percent of the full pension until the end of the calendar year. In the future, the early retirement pension for long periods of insurance is to be paid from the date of employment. The corresponding increase factors should also be applied if the sliding pension is terminated early, regardless of the achievement of the rule-pension age. Ladies and gentlemen! These measures give clear rejection to all employment recipes that may be speculated with wage cuts in older people. Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch has also repeatedly stressed on every occasion that this is a very serious concern for us. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] At the same time, we are adopting a constitutional re-regulation of emergency aid, which is similar to the right of residence. All those foreign persons who have an unlimited residence permit, regardless of their actual residence, have unlimited access to the labour market and, in the event of the conditions for entitlement, to unemployment benefit and emergency aid. Ladies and gentlemen! We thus achieve equal treatment for older workers vis-à-vis workers of other age groups, more equal treatment in emergency aid, but still no equal treatment for workers and employees, as stated in the "Action Fairness". Some gangs in the ÖVP obviously have an uneven weight. That is why the EIA is here on the spot and does not go beyond declarations of intent. I hope that this will soon change in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10139	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10160	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In all the necessary short comments: To sum up, we are unfortunately unable to agree to the paper 2021 of the Supplements, because we believe that this is an inadequate repair, so we also recognize that the efforts are already partly in the right direction. You can show that on the bonus malus system. The actual design error has not been fixed, namely that the system is extremely hostile to women due to the different ages of retirement, which, as has been mentioned many times, are a very double-edged sword because they compensate for disadvantages in the working world by allowing women to acquire pensions if they work longer. But in the bonus malus system, it is particularly evil because it pushes the so-called age unemployment of women even further down, which reaches the age limits. The example of the solidarity premium model also shows that it is less on the model that it does not take effect, but simply that the tools we use, namely the AMS, apparently do not like this model, do not propagnate it and do not make it liveable. I mean, if something is dead right because the executive organs do not apply it, then it will not be better to change it because it would require a fundamental change of mind in the management levels of the AMS. And we have learned that AMS is not the hort of innovation, so that will not take place. What, on the other hand, the 2022 template of the supplements, the Night Heavy Labour Act and the holiday opportunities developed there, we will agree with this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10199	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10221	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! While there are significant successes in the field of youth employment, unemployment in those over 50 years of age has been shown to rise. Therefore, those measures that we will now decide, the so-called Pact for older people, are a correct response to this development. The model preferred by the EIA provides that in addition to the existing solidarity premium model, two models for part-time employment of older workers are now being introduced, namely part-time and part-time. I do not want to repeat anything, because Mr Reitsamer has made very clear what this is about. I would just like to conclude by saying that this demand has come massively from the ÖVP, in particular from the ÖAAB, from Fassleven and from Feurstein. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This successful implementation of part-time work shows that, if they wish, the social partners can do so, and we wish to do so in other areas too.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10260	The clock is almost not enough to determine the shortness of the discussions. [[Abg. Steibl: Soon the sausage will be, Mr President.]] The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10290	Mr President. In my view, it is even shorter because a savings package is beginning to catch up on the speaking time. I'm trying to take a short look. We agree with the package of measures for older workers – with abdominal pain. For those provisions contained in other elements of different laws relating to the repair of emergency aid, our abdominal pain is so great that we certainly do not agree. According to the findings of the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights, the emergency aid is also an actual benefit which cannot be excluded from those groups of persons where the stay has not yet been solidified, if they fulfil the requirements of entitlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10320	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10341	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are today amending Amendment No 1150/A, which concerns the night heavy work law, the holiday law and the unemployment insurance law, I would like to say briefly that in 1992 the first minimum standards for an additional leave were adopted. At that time, 12 000 workers were affected by night work. However, the fact that there has been an improvement in the Night Heavy Labour Act can be attributed primarily to the persistent and targeted negotiations at the social partners level. Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of "night work" is also particularly updated by the discussion on the ban on night work for women. We must make a general rule against the exploitation of this harmful form of work for both sexes. I would like to say that this form of working time is absolutely antifamily, but it also excludes those concerned from social life. High house! It has taken many years of hard negotiations for us to take another important step for the affected night workers. Currently 14 547 workers in Austria are working hard at night. In discussions with those concerned at their workplace, I must say again and again that only individual workers are among them, who have no personal problem with night work. Ladies and gentlemen! In those areas where night work is absolutely necessary, such as care, transport and so on, it must be our top priority to set the framework conditions for those concerned in such a way that health does not suffer too much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That this is possible proves to us the operation ADS, PCB manufacturer in Styria. In this farm a few hundred women work at night. There, however, the trade union has succeeded in negotiating acceptable framework conditions for workers with the collective contractual partner. Ladies and gentlemen! If the FPÖ had said so, workers would have to do their work without health care measures. The FPÖ represents the works councils and the trade unions as an obstacle and says that our demands are special requests which would not be acceptable to companies. Such statements are proof that you do not know what burden workers have to bear in the event of night work in order to be able to earn their living. High house! The application submitted today achieves further improvement for the night worker and the worker, namely the right to an additional leave if less than fifty times the required night work has been done in the current holiday year but at least forty times. However, we must continue to negotiate in order to achieve reliefs for those involved in night heavy work. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a special appeal to the coalition partner that, in the context of the fairness action, the demands in the negotiations cannot be such that the weaker must return something, such as the shift of a holiday to Sunday, that is to say, on the very day of the recovery of those workers who have to do heavy work. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10392	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10413	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said in the debate that we are very successful in the Austrian working world, in the Austrian labour market in terms of the creation of more employment, but also in terms of combating unemployment, so that we can find a decline in unemployment in almost all areas in all the federal states and, now, in almost all age groups. Unfortunately, it is still the same – even if it is extremely weak – that in the age group of the over 50, 55 years of age, there is still an increase – albeit less – of growth. I am therefore very glad that, thanks to the initiative proposal of the SPÖ and the ÖVP Members, it is possible to decide today on that pact for older workers, which was the subject of a proposal from the social partners and which, not least, could be negotiated and introduced with our parliamentarians. The essential points have already been taken into consideration and pointed out; I therefore do not need to repeat them. I would nevertheless like to make a comment on what Mr Dolinschek said, namely that these proposals are not suitable for small and medium-sized enterprises and would be limited only to large enterprises. . I mean, especially in those two offers for part-time age – with a model a mandatory replacement setting is provided, but in the other model it is not required – attention is paid to the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: For all that you will decide now and what I hope will also help these age groups to improve their working situation and their duration of employment, there is a need for joint efforts to change the thinking and behaviour of entrepreneurs and the personnel responsible, here I am more aware of the great ones, their behaviour towards the elderly in our society, the elderly in our working world, and in the direction of a clear commitment that even over 50 years of age are important, socially competent and professional employees and therefore must also be given this particular appreciation. I believe that, together, we should also take the social partners, especially the employers' side, into account to work on rethinking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Kier, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask if I have understood your contribution in such a way that you think that, in the different retirement age of women and men, we should seek to align the retirement age of women with that of men. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: A discount!]] Or did I misunderstand you on this?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10462	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the votes which will be carried out separately on each of the requests. First of all, we are voting on the draft law in 2021, taking into account the amendment made by the rapporteur at the beginning of the debate. There is a request from Mr Ollinger for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by this request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 Paragraph 37a para. 1 point 2, Article 3(7) para. 3 point 3, § 26 para. 6 and § 79 para. 52, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to these parts of the bill to a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. That is why we are voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and its title and receipt, also in the version of the Committee's report and taking into account the correction of the print error. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to these parts of the bill to a sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I should like to ask that those Members of the House who also give their approval at third reading give a sign of this. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall therefore proceed next to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2022 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who support this bill. This draft law was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation to give a positive sign. – The draft law in 2022 of the Supplements was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 776/A (E) by Mrs Brigitte Povysil and others on the acquisition of costs for in vitro fertilization (IVF) and on the motion for a resolution 1171/A (E) by Mrs Dr Elisabeth Pittermann, Dr Erwin Rasinger and Comrades on In vitro Fertilisation (2009 of Supplements) 23. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law establishing a fund for financing in vitro production (IVF Fund Act) (2010 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10568	This brings us to points 22 and 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker is because oral reporting was not required, Mrs Povysil. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10592	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this legislative period, I would like to give you a brief sample of our so often called "unscrupulous" or "responsible" opposition policy on the example of the government template on artificial fertilization. You know, about 30,000 couples in Austria are unwanted childless and can only get children through artificial insemination. As a result of my medical activity in the country Women's Clinic, I have been aware of this problem, and we have been working vehemently for this problem and for this patient clientele since that time. The success rate of this method is 30 percent, and the associated costs are 30 000 to 40 000 S. That is to say, there are not only massive psychological, but also physical and financial burdens for these couples. In May 1998 I submitted a request to you, Mrs Federal Minister, in which I asked you to create the legal conditions for the acquisition of artificial fertilization. At the same time, however, this request went to all the federal states and was taken over by my group, by the Freedoms, in all the country days – for example in Upper Austria in May 1998, in Styria also in May 1998, in Salzburg in October 1998, in Vorarlberg in January 1999, and so on, in all the country days. These applications, in turn, led to resolutions. As an example, I mention only a resolution in the Upper Austrian Landtag, in which ÖVP head of state Pühringer was invited by the Social Committee to forward the resolution to German Chancellor climate with the request for implementation. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, there were a lot of different press releases: In December 1998, for example, it was said: "Fight for artificial fertilization persists" or "SPÖ refuses artificial fertilization". In March 1999, it was already possible to read: "The countries are to take over the costs for the IVF", "IVF not at the expense of the cash registers", "The baby comes on a health certificate". Now it says at once: "The ÖVP demands artificial fertilization on a health certificate" and "Pittermann: ÖVP advance not thought about financially resolving artificial fertilization on health certificate". Shortly thereafter, Mrs Pittermann, the non-institutional proposal came from you, because it is better to take alien seeds with infertile women. I must say, I was very amazed at this SPÖ proposal to jump sideways. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] But then it was called artificial fertilization, one hears and marvels: "SPÖ swirls – IVF: Pittermann in principle for this," and finally in my press service: "SPÖ and ÖVP are copyposts of liberal ideas". Why? – No request had been made by you both, by the government groups, until this time on this subject. In the meantime, our parallel request for reproductive medicine was rejected, but he ended up in a four-party request, which we then carried. Our request for artificial fertilization, which was just the first to be put in place, was completed in the Committee on Social Affairs. That is, he actually suffered a first-class funeral. But today we are voting on a government template to set up a fund to finance in vitro production. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Party! It's hard to move you. Time and again, you deliver each other's defences. Time and time again They're good new legal regulations. One is for it, the other cannot finance it. One cannot finance it, the other are for it. But: We control from the liberals Not just you, we'll give you the topics and drive you in front of us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Your manuscript says: Praise for Rasinger!]] We do so until you stop laughing, but finally we realize that you must finally act for the benefit of the citizen and for the benefit of these women. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our kind of opposition policy. And I'll tell you one thing: Look forward to the next legislative period with us! - Good luck! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Super! Good luck!]] [[15:33]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10656	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I can say that Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits and Group according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested that an investigation committee be set up to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Minister of the Interior for the incidents which led to the death of Marcus Omofuma of Nigeria in the course of an attempted deportation, the practice exercised by the authorities in the imposition and execution of resuscitation and the criteria laid down by the authorities in the context of proportionality in the preparation and implementation of deportations. No debate was required on the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry. Therefore, the vote on this request will be taken in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda for today's sitting. Mrs Pittermann has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10685	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Povysil, I have not, of course, claimed that sterile women with foreign seed suddenly become fertile or are no longer sterile. This, of course, was only related to cases of sterility with the man, because I have found before a woman is subjected to such an IVF procedure, it is wiser to make a foreign donation. The fact that a woman’s sterility is not fixable should be clear to all those who have studied medicine. [[Abg. Fuchs: Not just those!]] That is why I have expected you to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Of course, having children who are desired is a great hardship for many people, and they do all they can to fulfill this desire, just as those who become unwantedly pregnant mean a disaster for children, are also willing to put their health at risk in order not to get these unwanted children. We also do not pay in vitro for health insurance, but a fund will be set up to cover 70 percent of the IVF's costs. That's an excellent solution. The sterility is not a disease after an OGH judgment, therefore the exclusive acquisition of costs by social security was not possible either. This has also been made clear by Mr Donabauer in the Committee. Social security and the Ministry of Family Affairs are equally involved in this fund. If 30 percent of the costs for children are too high, countries and communities are required to help through social funds. However, considering the financial conditions needed for adoption, it is necessary to ask whether children should be consciously demonstrated with all effort for a life or a childhood in poverty. The different ages of men and women do not correspond to discrimination, but unfortunately to biological conditions. Even on a natural way, without sterility, only 2 percent of women over 40 can become pregnant. Men over 40 have no fertility problems – or they believe they have no, and the compensation is also easier to achieve. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The limitation to four tests per... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Everyone knows from the studies on bone marrow transplant that about every fifth child born in marriage does not come from the spouse. This has already been demonstrated by the tests for bone marrow donation. Every fifth marriage child is not from the husband! [[Cheerfulness and other calls.]] Read it! You can read that in literature, that's the reality. What do you think the men are dating? They also have partners to go abroad! Don't pretend you didn't! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The restriction on four experiments per child wish is medically justified, as this procedure is unpleasant for women and also associated with possible health consequences. Personally, I understand that one helps the sterile woman because the experience of pregnancy, birth and breastfeeding is a very unique and deeply pleasing one. Only a woman who has already been born can feel this emotional storm. The problem for me is the in vitro fertilization in male sterilization, as it is not particularly healthy for women to have this procedure performed. This is not about psychological, but rather about a little "blood-and-soil-humanity" and not about social parenthood. But since it is the desire of the couples concerned and the legislator must also take into account the wishes of the citizens, this possibility has also been created. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This cynicism cannot be surpassed!]] I am particularly concerned about quality control and quality assurance. Contracts will be concluded with certain hospitals and quality criteria must be met. The documentation, but also the anonymization of the data, is important. We have, as I mean, been dealing very fairly with couples with children's wishes. I too join my group in asking for this fairness in other points, namely fairness to workers and employees. As a doctor, I have seen workers die before, because they were only allowed to visit the doctor for 40 hours a year at the expense of the service provider, but were often too poor and could not go to the doctor at all in these times. Especially patients I handle – these are patients with malignant diseases – often died before their time because they could not afford their illness. For this reason, for human and humanitarian reasons, I really ask you: Join the "Action Fairness"! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Very good the task of the clubman fulfilled! Every speech!]] This law will enable us to meet the demands of many people for help in children's desires, whose fulfillment of modern medicine has only been possible since 1978 with increasing success. That is why we welcome this law. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Since this is also my last speech in this legislative period – I hope only the last speech in this legislative period, because I would like to come to this House once again, whether you like it or not – I would like to wish all the outgoing Members all the best, especially health and that you are happy and happy in your future life. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Oh, oh! Liesl, you go?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to thank all those who helped us, especially those who helped me in the work. It was actually my first legislative period here – with the exception of the short previous ones, and I learned a lot and was very dependent on discussions. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and your officials for the constant help they have given me, and I also thank the officials of this House. I hope that in the next legislative period we will also be fairer to the officials here and will not have so long night meetings. Because if we can leave this house, all those who work in this house – we could hear it recently in the "Morgenjournal" – are still working. So I also wish these employees shorter meetings. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office and hope that in the next legislative period we will no longer say to the left of the coloirs and to the right of the coloirs the law applies, but also to the coloirs must not be smoked if we comply with the tobacco law. This cannot be determined differently by the Presidents either! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] I would like us to comply with the tobacco law in this House as it corresponds to the letter of the law. And with that I wish you all a nice summer, good holidays and a good return after the summer!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10828	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10849	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I wanted to talk about Mr Pittermann's suggestion to join the fairness action. When I got this button today, I thought, well, then you rub and see what's below, because we know that politics is always to be considered thoroughly. But then, suddenly, sheet metal came out! [[The speaker holds a sticker with the title "Action Fairness! ÖGB" in height; the colour is partially rubbed, the metal below is visible.]] I would just like to say that we should all join the "Action Fairness" in election times in particular – but a general fairness in society, not only between the workers on the one hand and the employees on the other, but even between all people. This should be the basis of every election campaign: They talk about people and should pay attention to them too! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] I would like to see the election campaign carried out by this fairness action, but a fairness action in Parliament! To the law we have to discuss today. Of course, it is important that we do not fail the support we need. I would like us to pay more attention to this in the future. I can recall Mrs Haidlmayr's speech when she told us how disabled people are when they articulate funding needs. That starts with very primitive things. For example, if these people have diarrhea and need appropriate deposits in excess, they need to do so – in order to get these diapers; so you have expressed yourself, Mrs. Haidlmayr – a chief medical approval. And you asked the question at the time: Do you think we're covering our living room with diapers?- Oh, my God! I want to say that these people are being saved. There's going to be a look at every big one. For the disabled, for the parents of the disabled who fight for equipment to work together with the children in a household, it is only about threats, about correspondence without end, over infinitely many visits, until finally the authorisation for such a special equipment comes and the funding is secured. On the other hand, for example the IVF, I see that one is actually very generous, in that the social situation is not in the foreground of the group concerned, but that it is totally irrelevant. It is said that 70 percent of the costs incurred are to be borne, and the remaining 30 percent can, for example, be increased from social point of view by countries or communities. In other words, in the case of such a procedure, an in vitro fertilization in Hollabrunn may have a different possibility of financing than an in vitro fertilization a few kilometers further, in Vienna or in Klosterneuburg. I think that this is a dangerous process: that as a basis, we do not take the social situation of the people seriously, but that we simply open the door and gate of chance, and I do not think that is a successful way of doing so. Then it goes on with differentiation, this time between man and woman. It is said that funding can only be made if various aspects are fulfilled, for example in cases of sterility of the woman's origin. I know sterility, which is not feasible, and which is very likely to be lifted by in vitro fertilization. This sterility is explicitly excluded. I mean, if so, then one should make a law that also includes this infertility, which is not feasible origin, but can be overcome by technology. However, this is not the case explicitly in this paper. Then it goes on. That's what it says: The date of the beginning of an in vitro Fertilization experiment in a woman who was 40 years old. Life, and with a man who's 50 years old. He's not finished his life, and so on. – Now I wonder: What is the basis for this difference? Why do you make the border with a woman with 40 and with a man with 50? – They say because a woman with 40 is too old to bear. That's not true anymore, we all know. That is, one takes the parents ’ age as a basis and says that from a certain age on, it is no longer very useful to take on any parenthood at all. But then I don't understand the difference between husband and wife. Is a woman with 40 mentally the same age as a man with 50? - No, I don't think so. So I would like to know now why one makes such a difference, why one does not introduce the same age for both and adapt it according to the latest findings of science. There is nothing against breaking the head over it at all. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Then it goes on to say: The main association of the Austrian social security funds – which is the possibility of funding, which is to be created there – concludes contracts with institutions of hospitals carrying out in vitro-fertilizations. – That means that if you do not carry out in vitro production in a hospital, you do not get it financed by this fund. I'm really wondering: Why Make Do you have any differences again? This is the same process! They actually want to get rid of an obstacle that exists in a human body and enable a pregnancy. Why Distinct You then between these technical possibilities which are carried out in a contract hospital and the technical possibility that may be made in another institute? I must say that this inequality is not justified by anything. I believe that, as a matter of fact, one would like to help a group of people, but I believe that this is certainly not the right way. They make differences in age, differences in hospitals – who is financed and who is not – and last but not least, they do not take social aspects into account. I don't think this is a successful law, Mrs. Federal Minister. I know that you are always happy to speak to the end. I wanted to tell you something else. Perhaps this will be done by your colleagues in the government. Mr. Dr. Ofner has always criticized this. On each item on the agenda, the last word belongs to a Member of this House. I really think it is worth noting that the Federal Government does not comply with this with a certain consequence. That's so Usus, there's a codex, and this one is to be taken into consideration. I would like the Federal Government to take up this code perhaps again during the next legislative period, which once, as it were, had an important basis. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Because you like the last word!]] Finally, I would like to thank you at the end of a legislative period. First of all, I would like to thank the President and the two other Presidents who are not currently in the Chamber, but above all Mr Fischer for his very pleasant and very transparent presidency in the plenary debates or in the main committee. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] This also applies to many of the chairmen of committees I have experienced. I have the impression that, in cooperation with the officials of the House, an attempt has always been made to choose the most objective and transparent Presidency. However, I should like to draw a comparison between the European Parliament and the Austrian National Council. There is a completely different spirit in the European Parliament. There, across political boundaries, efforts are being made to achieve the greatest possible compromise, and this is actually the end of the work in the European Parliament. Here it is that one often had the impression that one is running against a concrete wall, but that there is actually no real reason for this concrete wall. If we had much earlier the need to communicate here in the House, we would achieve much more consensus. This is a restriction we impose on ourselves. We shouldn't do that, that's not good. This is not the spirit in which a parliamentarianism should develop. The consequences should not be taken into account during the next legislative period, but the general consequences. The cooperation of Members in this House is the basis of democracy. We should really wear it in our heads when we go to the next election campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10919	Thank you, Mrs Gredler. Mr Minister, would you like to speak? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, it's about something else!]] Then I can continue in the speaker list. Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e10948	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Call:Mr Minister]] "Woman Minister" I said. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Minister for Women? That's too much!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] High house! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank you three times: first of all, the "Kinderwünsch" initiative, which really worked hard to raise awareness and was tireless; You, Mrs. Minister, and you, Minister. Even though it was a little late on with the Minister, she has now adopted the child late, but yet. What's this about? – There are 40,000 couples who are unwantedly childless. That's what matters to me. Children's war can become an enormous psychostress in Austria as well as in the world. It has been prevented in Austria so far from being a achievement of the solidarity community: In Germany this has been paid for ten years without any complications; also in France, in Israel. In Austria these couples, in addition to their enormous stress, have been left completely alone. 100 000 S of costs are not limited. There was really no number of such fools. The WHO defines this as a disease. Social security has said: We're complaining; that's not a disease! In the course of the research on this unwanted childlessness, I have examined an article from "Social Security" – this is the official journal of the main association. For ten pages only around was defined, so that as a doctor – who believes he is half an expert – at the end I was only confused. What is a disease; a WHO disease; a social security disease; an OGH disease; Is it worth or is it not? With such punctuality, no smoker, no alcoholic, no more overweight would get a performance at all in Austria. Because you can define everything away or in it. So I am glad that we have found a typical Austrian middle path. The word "social" would otherwise have become unsocial and would have been a sign of stubbornness. In the answers to many questions raised by Mrs Povysil, for example, or by Mrs Povysil, this was swept away with the "death argument": That costs 3.6 billion schilling – do you want a contribution increase? – we can't afford that! We've taken that into account. I was able to prove to a very speaking minister - I would like to express this - that the whole cost no more than 100 million schillings. I do not want to say, now, that some people are paying this out of the post office, but with 126 billion schillings available to social health insurance, I think this is an amount that you can at least think about. That is why it bothered me in the beginning that it was said: not thought through and not to solve financially. What is finally the result? – Approximately 100 000 S costs it on average, as we have heard; three experiments are needed in about; 70 percent now pays the public hand, divided into family allowances and social security. If I hear from Mrs Gredler – up there she is – that this is too generous, and what we are spending it on, I can only say: There was an uprising in Austria when we introduced the 50 S self-retaining. Now, on the other hand, it is too generous to hold 30,000 s? – I would have liked to have him a little lower, but that was an explicit wish of our coalition partner. That's what I said: Okay, in God's name, we eat that too, so that we can make a solution! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: From a social point of view!]] The result can be seen internationally. Four experiments per child; the new methods beyond in vitro fertilization are also paid; and above all, quality assurance will also be an essential part of the law. It's definitely me, whether the kids are called Martin, Lore, Erwin or Brigitte. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Erwin" is beautiful!]] I am concerned with the attitude we have toward children but also toward sick people or toward people who believe to be under stress or mental impairment. If we create it with the in vitro fertilization, this possibility at the expense of the public hand, to somehow relieve the children's desire, then we will have much joy with those perhaps 1,500 children who are coming to the world – I mean, we will come once again to a time when we will be golden children, so to speak, because we have declining birth rates. So, it's a good law. It is a human law, and it means above all a little more social warmth in our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11033	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11054	Mr President. The last sparing speech, again very briefly. We are not, in principle, opposed to in vitro fertilization, but we would have wished for clearer regulations and a public debate on them. We would have wished that not a different age be set for men and women. We could have imagined, for example, indications for cross-sectional persons, as she has repeatedly proposed and requested, Mrs Haidlmayr. We would have preferred, above all, that this form should not come to the horrendous regulation, according to which the in vitro fertilization on the one hand is regarded as a disease, on the other hand as a family-political achievement, but that we can discuss and discuss later on before such a scheme is put into effect and before we risk putting women under pressure. That's all I want to say. I wish you a nice summer. – That was my last speech in this GP.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11090	The Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11112	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the near future, my opinion on in vitro production. I too am very pleased that, together, we have been able to achieve an important piece of social legislation and an important piece in the direction of – as Mr Rasinger Rasinger said – "more social warmth" in this country. No matter what the legal situation at the time X looked like or perhaps still looks like: If it is the declared political will of the legislator – and this is the case now – to raise health insurance in an appropriate form for artificial fertilization, and if, of course, we do not act counter-empty on the other hand, then that is, I believe, not only permitted, but a completely normal access and operation. Thus, the case law of the OGH is one thing, and our will to honor the in vitro fertilization – at least 70 percent – is something else. That's gonna go over the stage today. Ladies and gentlemen Gredler – you are no longer in the hall now, unfortunately. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: (from a place behind the seats) But here I am!]] I've been looking for you in your bank; now I've found you. Greetings to God, Mrs. Deputies! Mrs Hostasch or the social resort and we have not made it easy, but have us with regard to the questions of the limitation of indications – and that is a restriction! – but also with regard to the necessary age, age limits, strictly adhered to the requirement of the Supreme Council of Sanity to a sub-group, which was used from there – by experts designated in this field! [[Abg. Fischl: Are you already the Minister of Health?]] The legislation is therefore in line with the current state of science in Austria. It has also been made possible to ensure that, if this continues to develop, if beyond the indication limitation of the tube closure, it is useful to refinance, refund such a fertilization operation, the possibility of further development is also provided by law. Like Mr Rasinger, I also believe that 30 percent self-sufficiency is at the ceiling. I could have imagined less, but at least 30 per cent are significantly better than 100 per cent, especially at a large risk of 100 000 s or more. It was certainly not our primary motive that this will allow 1,000 to 1,500 children to come to the world – as beautiful as the birth of every child is – but with us the prevention of great human suffering was in the foreground. But it should be mentioned immediately after that, of course, it plays a role that in the event of a drop in birth of more than 10 per cent within two years – at just 80 000 births in 1998 – 1 500 children are also an important population per year. Therefore, first of all, from my point of view, the prevention of human suffering is for those women, those men, those couples and couples who, unfortunately, could not have children without artificial fertilization, except perhaps adoptive children. On the other hand, there are also 1,000 to 1,500 children. That's something! I am in favour of quality assurance, which is required by this law – in other words, it is also based on American criteria – and I am also pleased that, after some discussions, we have come to see that it is not only a refund for the first presumptive child, but also for other children, if the couples wish. I personally know a few examples of how this was possible and possible. In this respect, I should also like to say a word of thanks, not only to the Members of the House, but, at the end of this legislative period, to my often interlocutory colleague, Mrs Hostasch. It was very pleasant and always constructive to negotiate with you. We have actually achieved as good a result as ever, whether it be the pension reform a few years ago, whether as a final point, artificial fertilization. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, this also includes the chip card, but at the moment the artificial fertilization is on the agenda. You are a very hard negotiator, I must admit that to you, but you combine it with a lot of humanity. This is not always the case in politics. What we've done to each other has kept it. And who knows: Perhaps that would have been possible if we had some sort of task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, Mrs Colleague! Thank you, Mr President. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein presents a bouquet of flowers to Federal Minister Hostasch.]] [[Federal Minister Hostasch thanks her ministerial colleagues for this with a little kiss on the cheek.]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11196	It is now time to exclude the public from the meeting. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: All doors wide open! I'm grateful for that!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was "Action Fairness"!]] Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11245	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. If I wasn't already red – now I would have turned red!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11281	Next speaker: Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11302	Mr President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me introduce a few more ethical-critical ideas regarding IVF. Recently, the press went through the following: A family in America had a leukemia sick child and through the technology was given the opportunity to produce some embryos. She chose exactly the gene constellation of these particular embryos, which was also suitable for donating bone marrow to the leukemia ill child. Isn't that a "consumer"? Don't we make "consumer people" with that? Is there not this danger? – I would like to throw this into the discussion. In my opinion, this is another question that we have to deal with in our society, even here in the house, that I am firmly convinced of! [[Abg. Fischl: Yes!]] What do we do with the cryo-preserved embryos? How many are we implanting? Have you ever thought about the fact that three people are actually involved in this relationship of being a child, that the third person, the actually outside doctor, has taken over the primary responsibility and that the child really "makes"? How far does a consultation take place, how far does it come to accompany these people? What about the complications that can grow from it: the multiple births, the miscarriage? To what extent does the doctor not also need to be involved with this couple? I raise these questions because they simply belong to them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It just doesn't say that! Unfortunately, the contribution is not expressed!]] In part, you're right. – I’m just throwing it up because it just belongs to this finally still happy event. When about 300,000 children worldwide are born by this method, it is actually a joyous event and a particularly positive sign when we now, although we are throwing away human lives again, are trying to redefine human lives. I think it is a correct answer to support it by public means to have children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is much better than if the demand for abortion is awakened in some circles. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11357	Mr Pumberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11379	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with colleagues Leinner agrees: Absorbation on a health certificate is certainly not a solution. The law, which will be decided today, is to be supported, although it is not optimal and although the proposals of our Freemans would have been more far-reaching. But we're still happy with that. I have practically daily discussions in my ordination with patients who have a child's desire for years, get older and touch the age, so to speak, in which they know that biologically soon there will not be any more. Then they decide to become an artificial fertilization, a so-called in vitro fertilization. They take in unfair and very high costs. You've already gotten a little older. I therefore believe that the random age of 40 years for women is an age which must not be left that way. I would ask that this be lifted today. I have good acquaintances and friends who are still parents at this age. Especially when you wait for years for a child, you wait because it should go naturally and because you only see artificial fertilization as the second and third best solution. It would therefore be better to remove this age limit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also believe that it is important to abolish the provision that it is only permitted to carry out this task by hospitals. I know specific cases in which very good women's doctors leave the hospital and open up private institutions, care for women and have a very high success rate. These doctors make themselves independent, leave the hospital, and no longer have a chance to carry out an in vitro production with the State's participation in the costs. They therefore no longer have equal opportunities for hospitals and ambulances. That is why I think it is necessary to establish equality between private institutions which are authorized, as well as hospitals and hospitals. There would be very important equality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, there is 70 percent cost replacement. – I don’t think one should argue about whether one proceeds in the event of fertility disorders, infertility following the OGH knowledge and says: It's not a disease, or whether you're going after the WHO and you're saying: It's a disease! I believe that people who wish for young people but cannot get one for biological reasons should be able to put aside definitions and get under the arms and also financially support the long-awaited desire for children. That's the meaning of today's law, and there's no need for any polemics. Mrs Pittermann, in her speech, has given statistical figures on how many partners today are going about how many children are not of the supposed father. To this end, I would like to say: I hope, Mrs Pittermann, that you will rely on official statistical figures and not on your own experience.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11440	Deputies! The Freedom Party was very sensitive when someone acted improperly toward the colleague Aumayr. – I have not felt this statement any different either now. I'm trying to fix that in any form!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11483	That wasn't supposed to be personal. [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] Statistical figures should be based on such statements. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I believe that it is a good law that allows 1,500 children to come to the world each year in Austria and 3 000 parents to be lucky with their child and to return to happy family circumstances. I think that is good, and this is also supported by our side.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11538	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11559	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein! It has already been pointed out that we both tried together – after intensive medical consultation – to develop this bill. I strongly support the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Sanity in my place as a non-medicine. There is a separate working group in the Supreme Council of Sanity, a separate group specifically concerned with the issues of in vitro fertilization. We have guided or adhered to its recommendations. I believe that this is the only right way, because it is the professionals, it is the physicians, it is in particular those people who have many years of experience that politicians can give advice and recommendation to us. I trust these recommendations and I am confident that, with the framework conditions that could be created, we will achieve what our common objective has been: Quality assurance, protection of the health of couples, but also the fulfilment of an previously unfulfilled child's desire. But that this can only be done where the appropriate professional suitability is given is, I believe, undisputed. Therefore, we have understood that this draft law provides that hospitals with authorisation under the Reproductive Medicine Act are those institutions or institutions which can take these measures. But that does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that these are only hospitals. These are hospitals within the meaning of the definition of the reproductive medicine law, and some of them are also affected, which have so far been able to make a very successful in vitro-fertilization. It was a special concern to me to create framework conditions through this quality assurance, which ensures that women are not under any particular mental pressure, because, as I believe, we also have the experience that, of course, it is also a great psychological burden for men and women if a child's desire cannot be fulfilled. But I believe that the problem, including mental stress, can be even stronger for women than for men. I believe that we have succeeded in developing a very reasonable, feasible, very helpful concept for those concerned. We have achieved that those couples who are not financially strong also have the opportunity to meet an unfulfilled child's desire, and we have thus created more equal opportunities. I can say to Mrs Gredler: It is not only in hospitals but also in the approved establishments that the possibility of this method of treatment is given and thus ensure that quality is given. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: They have a contract!]] Mr Bartenstein has already pointed out that we have also complied with the American recommendations in terms of quality criteria. The next step to be taken is to ensure that the main association of the Austrian social security funds with the relevant institutions and hospitals has to establish contracts which are the prerequisites for starting from 1. These opportunities exist under the new legal framework in January 2000. I may make a correction on an amount: According to estimates and past experience, it is expected that medical stimulation plus treatment may cost about 40 000 S per experiment but not have to. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we have now found this opportunity together and I would also like to thank you for your support. Mrs Gredler, ladies and gentlemen, because you meant that there was, so to speak, a code here in the House, according to which a Member or a Member of Parliament would always have the last word, and not a member of the government, on a point of order: I was a Member myself for a long time, and I was not familiar with such a code. If this applies to the next legislative period and I am sitting on the government bench, I will, of course, stick to these rites or to this procedure. Now I would like to take this opportunity, probably having the last word on this item on the agenda, and from my point of view, for this legislative period, to thank you very much for having been able to achieve a lot of common important projects in this legislative period, both in the field of social affairs and in the field of work and health. I am particularly grateful to the speakers of the two government parties, Mrs Reitsamer, as committee chairman, Mr Dr. Feurstein, but of course also the health speakers of the two government parties. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you to rest over the summer and hope that you can relax a little, what we all need, and I wish we could do a lot of things together for the people of our country during the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11613	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. There is no need for a final word on the part of the report. We shall therefore proceed to each vote at once, and we shall first vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 2009. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report, to give an indication of this. This resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 213.) Next, we will vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 2010 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this proposal at third reading should rise from the seats. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority vote in third reading. 24. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1479 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Security Police Act, the Federal Law, which introduces special investigation measures to combat organised crime into the criminal code and the Criminal Code, the Media Act, the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Security Police Act, the Federal Law on the Protection from Crimes Against the Safety of Civil Aviation, the Code of Execution, the Convention on the Enforcement of Customs Law and the 1972 Act (SPG-Novelle 1998) (2023 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11674	That's what we're going to get to the 24th. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. I call Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11701	Ladies and gentlemen! I know that each one of you wants to go home as quickly as possible after such a long plenary week, and I will not tell you what is contained in the Security Police Act now. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that you are all aware that there is now at last a security academy. For years, this project dimmed. One has not known whether it will be reality or not. Now at last, so to speak, with a horuck, after the groundbreaking was made in March, this security academy will come. We agree. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister wished for a Human Rights Advisory Board, a advisory board in which human rights organisations too have a strong word to speak. In this regard, I must say that I am a little skeptical because I believe that the Minister has such a large staff, that he could have been able to make up his advisers and not necessarily have been able to help the human rights organizations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not understand at all why the Minister is so grateful to these human rights organisations that he takes them into the Human Rights Advisory Council, because the human rights organizations were the very first to demand the resignation of the Minister in the case of Omofuma. The one who gives them 6 million schillings, including them in all the bodies, is first and foremost asked by them to resign. In addition, many of these human rights organizations have developed to advise pushers on how best to escape the blame. They are applicants for all kinds of complaints, for how best to go on the hunger strike and so on. As I said, Mr Minister, you will already know who you are based on, just continue to do so. However, I do not think that they will receive much thanks from human rights organisations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are pleased that you have finally implemented DNA analysis. There has also been a long round between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, because the Minister of Justice believed that if he agreed to the DNA analysis, the perpetrator would be burdened himself. We know: The Minister of Justice is still much more important to the perpetrator than the investigation of a criminal act. But thank God they were able to move him to a rethink. But something important, ladies and gentlemen, has not been decided, namely the extended research of danger. You have not been able to agree with SPÖ and ÖVP, and we are very sorry because of this, because the criminals of the whole world, such as the Mafiabosses, can be unhindered... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss]] [[Abg. Kiss points towards SPÖ.]] You of the ÖVP have not been able to prevail! I have already told you, Mr Kiss: They've been the bee-wagerl all the time. Let us finally see that you will be the locomotives of this coalition! You would have had one of the few ways to get to the top of the train! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, we will experience that the Mafios from all over the world can meet with us in Austria freely, that they can show the safety executive the long nose, because there is no way to act against it. I would also like to use this opportunity to keep you from SPÖ and ÖVP – the ÖVP has already been destroyed before this legislative period has ended; this is a pity. [[In the ÖVP series, only more isolated Members are sitting]] This mirror sometimes looks out of a really ugly face, always when it comes to the treatment of the opposition. [[Abg. May. Posch: Go, go, go!]] You weren't in the Security Committee. If, then you would have seen your ugly face, Mr. Posch, distorted in the mirror by your treatment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Posch.]] It was indeed glaring how this security police law came about. To all means, only to prevent us from submitting a request for the establishment of a subcommittee. The Minister even wanted to buy us sausages so that we could not get out of the meeting room, but stay inside and let all this happen about us. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Frankfurter or Debreziner?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: At Schnitzeln we would have thought about it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not agreed with the dignity of this House as you treat the opposition! Hardly were we at the door outside, the Security Police Act was passed with the voices of SPÖ and ÖVP without a single word. Not even a word message was worth it to you! [[Complaints and intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: (in the direction of Abg. Scheibner) I agree, Mr Klubobmann.]] No word was worth it to you! This is how you deal with the opposition: strenuous! But, ladies and gentlemen, please listen to this! Haigermoser, watch out! [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. Kiss) You even fall down in the cricket!]] – Hardly was the security police law from the table, it was about our applications. There was then the SPÖ's request: This must be postponed because these are so important issues; to talk about them, we do not have time now, for that we need a lot of time! In the Security Police Act, you've gotten over it, in a few minutes it was gone from the table, but in our requests regarding the Foreign Law and so on, you just have because They didn't want to treat her, said: No, you have to talk about such an important matter for a long time! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is the abuse of power! That's what I wanted to tell you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That does not correspond to the dignity of the House, and you should think about it! You know, Mr President: Whether you say "Pokerface" or say "hypocritical" or not, that is not crucial for the parliamentary debate, but that the opposition should get its rights, that is important for parliamentary democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11890	Mrs Partik-Pablé! You didn't listen to your clubmate who said an hour ago: The opposition is driving the government ahead! Now I'm trying hard to figure this out. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is necessary, Mr President.]] I call Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11920	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (in the direction of ÖVP, in whose rows only more Abg. Kiss is located) What's wrong with the ÖVP?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Degradations at the ÖVP! Pauli Kiss the First!]] My previous speaker did not vote, so I assume that she is coming back. Most of them have done this today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You wouldn't miss us, I think!]] Very, very.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e11987	Please continue, Mr Leikam.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12002	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Security Police Act is a very important step – I would like to say: a very great step forward – in combating crime in our country. ==References== In May 1993 we passed the Security Police Act as the basic law here in Parliament, and it was then really considered a century law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not a century law!]] We are very pleased that this decision was taken at the time, and today it is important to create a series of improvements, both for the citizens and for the individual executive officials, with this amendment to the Security Police Act. We have not made it easy for us, Mrs Partik-Pablé, to admit, although I have to admit that the very late amendment that was tabled could perhaps have been made available to the political groups a little earlier. [[Abg. Scheibner: "Maybe" is good!]] I'd like to admit that. But superficially, we didn't do this matter, easily we didn't do it. We have discussed this over a year and have tried to make real improvements in this novel. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who is "we"?]] You always demand from us that the government work; that is a constant demand of yours. Today we have heard this x-time, especially by Mr Gaugg, who has constantly said: After being there. You're in the government! . Here we show that we are in the government, here we want to work and have presented a good novel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a work: five minutes before the end!]] One thing has to be clear: We can give our executive good, contemporary accommodation, a performance-related salary, the technical equipment, vehicles, armaments, everything they need, everything according to the latest, last state, but if it does not have the appropriate legal requirements, it is nevertheless unable to fulfil its tasks. And we want to create or extend these legal conditions with this novel to the Security Police Act. The following is incredibly important: The executive official who has to do it in his service with people who do not respect the laws does not need a great margin to carry out his work. What he needs – and we are responsible for that – are clear laws according to which he can act, even after which he has to act – and not according to his own appreciation: one more than a bit, the other a little less. That's why we need this novel, we need this security police law. It has become a remarkable innovation, although I also regret – and probably the Federal Minister himself – that the extended research is not included. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Jessas na! This is a declaration of poverty!]] However, I am sure that this extended research will be part of a new novel, a novel that cannot wait too long. That's where I agree with you. We would have liked to have, but it was not possible. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why was that not possible?]] But with the involvement of the municipal guards, for example, in the Security Police Act, we have fulfilled a great desire of many Austrian communities. We first have the establishment of a Human Rights Advisory Council as a regulation; today this is to be enshrined in the law. With regard to this Human Rights Advisory Council, I cannot share the concerns of the Freedom Party. I think it is important and necessary that there be this advisory board, and there has also been appropriate recognition of Amnesty International for this. This is not yet the case in other European countries. In any case, it is a step forward for foreign policy in our country. It also contains the introduction of an identity card. We have improved the rules on preventing violence in the homes. We have extended the deadlines from seven to ten days. It contains the so-called veil flag in this novel, which is necessary in the Schengen area. There are additional regulations with regard to the Security Academy. The organizational regulations are very, very important. I would also like to thank the Group of the European Free Alliance for its recognition in this regard. We need this Security Academy very urgently. And we have laid down very clear rules in this novel for DNA analyses, for genetic information. I may be allowed to stay here for a short time, because I would also like to stress that we have not passed over that we have not made it easy. The hearing in the Committee on the Interior - with experts mentioned by all the political groups - has shown how intensive and serious we have been in this matter. Finally, I was very glad that we were able to listen to these experts in the Committee on the Interior, because, no matter what group they came from, they all agreed that DNA analysis in the fight against crime is something whole, very important and necessary, and that this DNA analysis should not at all be abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen! So if we have received so much recognition from the experts for a very important part of this novel – in this context I can only quote Professor Scheidauer, who has meant that this novelle has become a very excellent law from a professional point of view – then, I believe, we MEPs should join the opinion of these experts and give us a good, advanced legal matter today also consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12122	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12143	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is already remarkable how clear – and I thank you very much – that Mr Leikam has announced today that the extended research of danger will of course come shortly. I have had the opportunity to be asked about this today, and have said to the question of whether this has now been averted: No trace, which is quite certain, because this is, as it were, the missing end stone in the vault of the construction, so they will not be able to give up on it. This has a certain logic, and if you want to develop certain police systems, you need it. That makes sense. Only so that you see, we understand your philosophy perfectly, but believe that this is exactly the wrong direction; I will explain it today. But I would ask you not to conclude quickly. I would like to make the following point at the top: Every state needs an efficient, effective, but a rule-of-law police, because the monopoly of violence entrusted to the police requires that they be subject to strict rules of play that their actions are comprehensible and verifiable, even if at times the review cannot be public at certain stages. That is quite logical, for this can, for example, prevent a search success from occuring. – All of this is very complex, I clearly see. It is essential for democracy to have the monopoly of violence in the hands of the State; that must be so. But that does not mean the popularity of the exercise of this monopoly of violence. It certainly doesn't mean that. I think this is very important, because if we want our police to fight injustice, prevent or resolve crimes, it cannot be that we are at the same time giving them funds that are illegal themselves. It would be like saying: To interrupt a wrong player who plays at poker with six axes because he has two in his sleeves, you have to sit down at the poker table and take six aces yourself. You have to change the rules and say: From now on, six aces will be played! It will appear that the wrong-doer then takes eight pieces, for it is an indisputable fact that someone who does not comply with the law always has a small advantage. This is painful, but that cannot mean that you do not apply the law on yourself. And because colleague Graf is just having eye contact with me: He knows what I mean, when I say, the lawyer is ultimately always in this dilemma that he already knew at times how different things went, but the client is hard to advise to do something illegal. It has been very important for me to say that in the beginning, so that this will not be misunderstood or misinterpreted, what I say otherwise. Mr Partik-Pablé was concerned about the Human Rights Advisory Council. We are also worried about the Human Rights Advisory Council, and, Mr Partik-Pablé, if you have heard our concerns, yours will disappear. From my point of view, this is bad for me, calming for you. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't believe that! I'm worried about you.]] No, Mrs Colleague, you are concerned that this Human Rights Advisory Board will be sent by organizations – the Constitutional Court nominates people in there – who are on the Minister's payroll, and that this is therefore very bad because people will do so, so to speak, wrong. They have also meant that human rights organisations, which also provide push advice, are actually compliments of crime. I'll tell you: The Human Rights Advisory Council will be completely harmless according to your understanding, because the members of the Human Rights Advisory Council can be convened at any time, so it is not independent anyway, which disturbs me, but you should calm down. That means he won't work as you fear, because he won't be able to. A advisory board made up of members who can be called up at any time is not really independent, however reputative the people who work there may be. But someone who is threatened with permanent loss of office has lower degrees of freedom in his control. That is why this Human Rights Advisory Council is missing from our point of view – apart from that, there is no reason to be proud that we are now setting up such a thing. The occasion from which he was born was tragic enough. The Council of Europe has been calling on Austria to create such an institution since 1995. After all, these have been four years since then, so it does not come quickly, nor does it come from the right occasion, namely from the realization that one needs such a thing. He was used as a means of making public work. That is why it has already been used before this law comes to the vote today, but on a completely different legal basis, on the basis of the Federal Ministry Act, which, as a result, every minister can set up any advisory council for his deliberations. And that's exactly what it is. Although it is now somewhat more blatantly formulated in the Security Police Act, the hard core remains the constant suspensibility, and that is the lack of independence. Mr Leikam highlighted the identity card. It would be nice if that were the way you described it, but unfortunately the identity card is something that was introduced, because we refuse people's travel documents for legal reasons in our society. It is unfortunate enough that there is such a thing. One can also discuss whether it is correct in any case, but that is not the issue. By the way, these are also people who are usually withdrawn from the driving licence for the same reasons and who, suddenly, without any official photo identification, cannot even open an account. That is why this ID is created. However, this is not a general ID, so anyone who has such an ID is almost automatically stigmatised, because it will be easy to see for a switch official at the bank that when someone comes with such an ID, he has no other document. We have tabled an appropriate request, but it has not benefited. You have made a committee statement. I'd say that's still the softest of all variants, a little better than nothing. And there I come to the state of the law, Mr. Leikam. You said: Yes, we have decided unanimously. I can then reply to the colleague, Partik-Pablé: You have decided without debate! She's my witness, and the colleague Stoisits is my witness. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what it's called!]] And if Mr Stoisits, Mr Partik-Pablé and I have the same opinion in a formal question, Mr Leikam, you should consider what that means. Although from different points of content, we were completely in agreement in the form, and that is why you then unanimously decided to do so. Mr Leikam and Mr Kiss: You have decided something unanimously, which you did not know yourself, because they have had it for as long as we did, namely, only during the committee meeting. Or do you want to tell me that all the members of the Committee on the Interior of the Government of the Head of Section of Szymanski or elsewhere have sat down and formulated?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Leikam: But we knew the two government templates!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't know anything! Wurst it was you! You were glad we were outside!]] Yes, you knew the two government documents. We also knew this, Mr Leikam, but the amendment, the comprehensive total amendment, which was gratefully delivered to us by the Ministry of the Interior – office service, so to speak –, but only manuscript of the Ministry of the Interior, no line from this House; a amendment tabled by Mrs N.N.; and so we didn't know that. They couldn't really have read that, it wasn't a synopsis at all, it wasn't possible at all. You have decided this unanimously without debate – and then you still regret it! If you are famous for the fact that you are a willless execution body of the Federal Government, that is not necessarily what you should do yourself. This is an accusation we make to you, and you have made yourself famous. I find that remarkable, because this process is really impressive. We have, by the way, received this report, along with the Committee's report. Before we started the deliberations, we had already written the Committee's report, which was written, written, and beautifully prepared with all the explanations of what we were considering in the Committee. All of this was done before the Committee meeting. – We did not like that, so we moved out and said that it is already certain what will come out anyway. One aspect of the security checks. These have not yet been debated. I must tell you that the security checks have some really real police charm. There has been a connection with the noise attack. You know how the "great noise attack" works. You know what to do with the material that is being developed there. This material is comprehensive. They are images and recordings that must be handed over to the prosecutor under closure, and the prosecutor then has to choose what he may need for the proceedings. If he has done so, the defender must be drawn up, must be confronted with it, must be given the opportunity to see it all, so that he can see whether perhaps evidence has not been taken into account by the prosecutor, and so on. And now, write to the Security Police Act, in § 155a para. 2 C 4 that all persons who have access to information suffered by monitoring measures pursuant to § 149. d para. 1 Z 3 StPO – these are the findings from the noise attack – are to be subjected to a security check, including all members who live with them when they are senior in the house. That is, any criminal defender who gets file access will be subject to a security check by you, including his close relatives or other associates. I find that remarkable. This should be noted by the lawyers present here: The legal profession for itself, if you have a mandate as a criminal defender, is not sufficient for the security police law that you are worthy of trust. This may have gone away from the Bar so far, but this should interest the colleagues there. I think that's really remarkable, because that's the full commitment to the purely police state. So if even the free lawyer is not recognized, as long as he has nothing to blame for or is perhaps more suspicious – there can be – I find that remarkable. For DNA analysis. – I had the opportunity to discuss this publicly, too, and I am glad that there is scientific evidence that enables us to carry out differentiated evidence and, in particular, to carry out exclusive evidence, because that is one of the qualities of DNA analysis. But I am not glad that, if we have only two paragraphs in the law, which say that a private service provider must do so, with a private contract, is not a definition of the quality standards within the law. Nothing! Nothing, just a private service provider. I therefore wonder how you find it when you develop public-law tasks – and the police are public-law – in private-law contracts. This privatisation access will not be heard from us! I think this is wrong! This is privatisation in the police state environment, and we think that's wrong! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is worrying, you have to choose a different design, and you also need to differentiate the standards. I think the DNA analysis is a valuable way, but it is a sharp and a two-edged knife, and you yourself recognize in this law that these DNA samples carry all the information, otherwise you would not have to write into the law that only those you need are allowed to evaluate. You know all of this, and yet you have not installed adequate legal protection, because a private contract with a service provider is not an adequate legal protection. He's just as good or as bad as the person who does it. For me, the Institute of Jurisdictional Medicine in Innsbruck is personally, subjectively, elevated over every suspicion. But that's not in the law, but it's in the law: "Service provider." Anyone who has such a laboratory can be a service provider, and that's worrying. You should have defined this better and perhaps follow our proposal to make your own law for it. Sluggish fencing. – You have reached the borders in Schengen and in the Union, where once there was a stopover to control everyone. As a result, you have passed to limitless surveillance. You may make arrests at any time, if you find anything suspicious, and therefore you do not need a cover-up in the Security Police Act. One last comment, something I think is very important. The Director-General for Public Security, Sika, presents himself in the first year after his retirement age – asked by the Minister to stay – before the TV camera, before journalists and says publicly! –: I would like this law because we do it all anyway, and we need a law to do it. And no one notices that Sika is either completely contrary to himself. If he does this without law, then he does it hopefully, because he is allowed to do so – subject to the act of Mr. Sika, for for me he is a law-breaking perpetrator in this case – or he needs the law, then he must not do it. And that is said publicly, by the chief of all Austrian police officers, if one wants to do so, by the Director-General for Public Security: that something is done anyway, for which a law is now to come. And, please, there's no cry in the administration, there's no minister who beats his hands over his head and says: What do I have for a Director-General who publicly declares that the law is being permanently violated, which does not exist at all?- Oh, my God! "Legal space" does not mean freeness, not at all, when it comes to fundamental rights. And no one's going to be shy. Nobody! On the contrary: It is defended with Emphase that everything is okay. That is why – I tell you once again – I am so sure that you will do the extended risk research next time you start, if you have the majority of them here at home, and if you have taken this out with the Military Power Act – that is, I say "packed" – if you give the black secret police the same possibilities as the red secret police, so that the police state also works "proporzioned". Police state proporz is called it elsewhere, but the rule of law has not been anyone! That is why I say to you: This is bad, because advanced risk research is already running. – Original tone Sika. He would just like to have a legal cover for what he already does. I'd say, All I've now analyzed is one of the reasons why the police are losing confidence. If you want the police to be accepted a hundred percent, then you have to bind them under the rule of law, then you must not let them be represented by people who say: The laws are for us, we do what we want, but we prefer to have a law. – Mr Sika said that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who says that?]] Sika said this: We're already doing this in the right-wing space, but we'd rather have a law for it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Sika is an honorary man!]] It's a scandal that covers everything else! If the Federal Minister leaves that inconsistency in the room, he confirms this, even if he is always hurt when he is told. But that's because he's the highest organ in the Federal Government responsible for it, not Sika. Sika is the first man, and if Sika says that, it's the same. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Sika is an honorary man!]] It may be that he is an honorary man for you. For me, he is someone who has an disturbed relationship with fundamental rights and the rule of law. Take note of this! That's him for me, even if he's otherwise hard on form. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What you blame him is very dishonest!]] If someone says as an official pledged to the Constitution, we'll do it even though we don't have a law... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're going to go to the wrong people!]] No, that's it! That's a bad example, and I'll stay there! On the subject of telephon monitoring a final note so that my statements do not become too long. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're going to go to the wrong people!]] Please do not interrupt me, Mr Graf, you can take the floor as often as you like. So to telephon surveillance. If I tell you now what is really intentional, what discussions are already being held with the operators, namely that you want to have the possibility of online access to the central units of the telephone operators so that you can retrieve any data without the involvement of the telephone operators, then you will say that this is not yet in the law. Then I tell you, that's right, but the negotiations with the telephone operators are already under way to create the technical conditions so that you can finally implement ENFOPOL, the glass... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you still have to go to the right people and not the wrong ones!]] Mr Graf! Please, you can go to the right people. For me, a top official is something I respect in principle. A Director-General for Public Security is an important section head, and if he positions himself in this way, he is ruining the rule of law. Do you understand? I'm so upset! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are still ruining the rule of law, but not the Sika!]] That's where he's ruining the rule of law! The rule of law, Mrs Partik-Pablé, is hard to form. And anyone who does not respect the forms slips into police popularity. And police popularity is arbitrary, and arbitrariness is the opposite of democracy and freedom. As long as there is a liberal voice in the country, we will stand for freedom. And if you don't like it, I can't help you either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12384	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12406	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Once again, at the beginning of a brief speech, I can see what we always see when we discuss security issues: The Freedom Party says it's all a lot too little. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That your party is no longer there, what is that?! Where are they?]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! I can also apologize if you like. We have a... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You see, you are not interested in safety!]] No, that's not true! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is this the future occupation?]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! We called a club meeting. At this club meeting, Altvizekanzler and ÖVP-Ehren Partyobmann Alois Mock gave his final speech. That is why our club members are sitting down and not here in plenary. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Should I cry now?]] Of course, the ÖVP has, and I ask you to take note of this... [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] Yes, because we just don't know what the timing of the discussion on the last day is. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You know that very well!]] So, please, leave me in herb with such things! Whenever we discuss security policy, it is like this: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is there a club meeting in the ÖVP!]] Colleague Partik-Pablé comes out here and says: That's all a lot too little! It all has to become much sharper! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Whenever it comes to the security of the country, the ÖVP has club meeting!]] And in any case, the coalition has agreed on a tireless compromise. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why don't you take a look at how you dealt with us in committee?]] Then it is Mr Kier or another representative of the Liberal Forum or of the Greens who claims – I have just read it in a press release – that: The police state is threatening! [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: take a position on how you dealt with us in committee!]] We have a police state, it's called again and again. We even have a "secret police" in Austria – and this was said by Mr Kier earlier on from this pult. I didn't know we had a secret police in Austria. I'm afraid already. And this secret police has not been controlled by any rule of law at all. I'm afraid already. Mr Kier! I don't know what country you live in. I live in Austria. I'm Austrian like you. I have this fear of the state of the police that you constantly conjure up, I have this fear of the alleged secret police, which there is not at all, but is not controlled by the rule of law. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: This is the terrible one!]] Let me write this to the main book! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Leikam.]] Whenever SPÖ and ÖVP find a line in content positions, it is true that we are from the Austrian People's Party to the Minister when it comes to clear demands in the field of internal security in Austria. But I would not be the one I am, I would not also like to add to the point of criticism which I have made in the Committee on the Interior, because I am not quite satisfied. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] No, I'm not very happy. I don't make a murderer's pit from my heart. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] And since Klubobmann Kostelka is now present anyway, I also say it in plenary: He's the crux at this novel to the Security Police Act that didn't come what we wanted. No, Toni Leikam, don't show up on the empty chair of our clubman. It's been Klubobmann Kostelka. Mr Kier, I'm telling you: We from the ÖVP also wanted the extended risk research for STAPO and thus a reform of the state police. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's what we wanted, and that's what I'm talking about! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why didn't you do it? You've junked!]] I don't want to say, If we have the say in the next legislative period, I will use it within the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why did you junctimize?]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You're the Crux! When Karl Schlögl went to you... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That was Khol's explanation! Khol has expressly said that this is a junk animation!]] No, listen to me! It was like this: When Karl Schlögl went to see you, it was you who did not give Karl Schlögl this extended risk investigation for the field of state police. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why did you junctimize?]] Is that a fact – or is that not a fact? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The fact is that Fassleven said that there is no such thing!]] Go, go, go, go, go, go, Then come out, Mr Kostelka, and make an actual correction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll tell you: If we had incorporated the extended research into the security police and the reform for the state police into this security police law, then that would be the end stone in this construction, Mr Kier, whom I would have said, I too have used it to go in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Kiss! Sit down! That's not good! You're there on an abominable road!]] One final point: What makes me particularly happy with the DNA analysis – my colleagues will comment on it in other areas of the Security Police Act – is the back-up of those who have committed a crime. The back-up is a form of legal security that we give to the executive and thus to the Austrian population. Victims who have committed wrongdoing must not be in safety. With the DNA analysis, with the back-up of criminals, that is, by all those who have taken out at least three years, we are able to act preventively. And I think with this preventive effect, DNA analysis achieves its goal. Federal Minister! They have our support in all matters of internal security when reasonable proposals are on the table – the EIA has put in an infinitely large number of reasonable proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you're going down with them!]] We are the engine, but we are also the ones who then criticize if your own clubman torpedes one or another, which is in the interest of the internal security of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12718	Mr Kostelka, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kostelka, for his excellent report. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12742	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr Kiss has claimed that I should be responsible for the fact that the second part of the Novelle Security Police Act does not involve general risk research. - That's not true! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Be proud of it!]] [[Abg. Kiss: I talked about the expanded one!]] It is true, rather, that we have negotiated the Security Police Act and the Military Power Act between the Coalitions and ÖVP-Klubobmann Khol and Federal Minister Fassleven from the beginning have declared that there are only two in common. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But this is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Be proud that you have shown your attitude!]] After we did not reach agreement on the Military Power Act, there were no further talks about the second part of the Security Police Act-Novelle...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12809	Please, this is a continuation story, Mr. Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12824	Mr President. Only one final sentence: You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are not the engine, but the brake!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12866	They have been personally apostrophized in the first part of the fact sheet, but not in the second part. And we agreed on how to handle the personal response. Mrs Stoistis has now come to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But we would be very interested in what Mr Kiss has to say! Give him the floor!]] [[Abg. Kiss: According to the Rules of Procedure, I would have been entitled to make a personal response to this actual correction! - Congratulations and bravo! - Call the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Kiss, what is that?]] [[Abg. Kiss: I am not at all interested in how you evaluate the actual correction of Kostelka, Mr President.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The Bureau has the Rules of Procedure, not the Kiss!]] [[Abg. May. Mr Stoisits: Mr President! My time's still not running?]] Mr Kiss! I'll send you a photocopy of the President's Protocol, then we'll have clarity. And there is also enough opportunity to speak in the debate. [[Abg. Kiss: I don't have a speaking time anymore!]] There, any necessary clarification can be made – without turning away from the principles laid down jointly by personal response. Mrs Stoisits is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e12975	Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow I am now really glad that this is the last Parliamentary session in this legislative period – although I do not agree that you will not be able to hold the new session until 23. To open September – because it saves us from this dispute, because what we now see is something like a public marriage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam]] - I'm coming to the real topic now. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1991 the Security Police Act was adopted here in the National Council. That was a truly directional decision at the time, because almost the whole century – 60 years! – intensively demanded that the rights and obligations of the police be standardised by law. Now there is for the first time a larger novel of this security police law, and this has become necessary primarily because those politicians who, as it were, always like to flow after the beer table climate and want to keep it in motion, always and everywhere, where it goes, talk about "organized crime", about the "russ mafia" and about this and that "mafia". That was not the case in 1991. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] [[Abg. Young: Col. Karlsson knows each other at the Mafia!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Do you want to say that there is no such thing – or what?]] – If so much is said about it, then of course the desire of the police or the security authorities is also greater. And this mood and desire is taken into account. [[President Dr Neisser is taking over again.]] But this has nothing to do with the extended investigation of the danger, which is not to be negotiated today, but it has to do with the remaining parts of the Security Police Act, which I believe are at least as worrying and deserve at least the attention of the public – which is concerned with it – as it is still at the time of the negotiation, which was not to be regulated now due to the marriage dispute in the great coalition, ladies and gentlemen. I come to the very first point, to DNA analysis. No reasonable person would say today – at least in the Committee on the Interior – that DNA analysis cannot be a suitable means of crime investigation. This has not been claimed in this Austrian Committee on the Interior. But once again, as often as it is about suitable means, it will be shot beyond the goal. [[Abg. Kiss: Who claims that? Who says that?]] And, ladies and gentlemen, today's regulation is going to go beyond the goal, which is not to say the Terezija Stoisits, but to the Austrian Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Kiss: He wasn't there at all!]] The Austrian Minister of Justice, Dr. Michalek, turned to the members of the Interior Committee immediately before the start of the committee and warned against such legal status as is now to happen, namely, in every dangerous attack – as is the case in the Security Police Act – the possibility of a DNA analysis, that is to say, a cut-out of the mouth, which is the prerequisite for carrying out the analysis. What is a "hazardous attack", ladies and gentlemen? – The Security Police Act clearly regulates this: The Security Police Act means any crime that is still so minor under a "hazardous attack". My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This threshold is clearly one that is unacceptable, and that is why the Federal Minister for Justice – and this is what he writes to the chairman of the Anton Leikam Committee on the Interior – called for a minimum limit of the penalty for the offence. Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister of Justice, writes the Minister of Justice, had expressly granted this to him. And the Minister of Justice also writes: I continue to express my strong support for this position. That means, as it were, untechnically: A crime is not a crime, and that is why it must be assumed. The current law offers so little opportunity for anyone to include the suspect in the DNA file. That is, a shoplifter is included in the DNA file – forever and forever, I say; that is not what Mr. Federal Minister Michalek says. And this is quite clearly beyond the goal, because it has nothing to do with crime investigation, which, as it were, has to do with a flat-rate suspicion of having a flat-rate distrust. And for this reason – not as far as the matter itself is concerned – we have formulated an amendment which I would like to make read. Second comment: Human rights Advisory Council. I don't have anything to add to what Dr. Kier said here. The Minister can be consulted, from whomever he wants, but try to give the impression to the public that this is an independent committee of inquiry, is absolutely unfair! – This is a body of honourable personalities who will advise the Minister of the Interior and make recommendations to him – that’s all! The independent Commission of Inquiry, as it is understood internationally, is not talking about. Third topic: Security check. That is another thing where the goal will be shot out, ladies and gentlemen. In the beginning, every private entrepreneur, every company who apply for them, can be sniffed by STAPO – otherwise it is not to be described – but not only possible candidates who give their consent to it – and if you know the situation on the labour market, you know what it means to say to a company: But I do not agree to the security check! – Then you don’t have to apply at all, that’s to say. Again: In other words, review not only of this person, but of every person living in the household of the adult, who is to be examined. Without their knowledge, without their consent! – Yes, please, where are we going? – This is clearly the police state, ladies and gentlemen, and nothing else! And we strongly reject that! That is also part of the amendment. Fourth point: Government information. Yes, Mr President behind me, Minister, do you know what that means? No, you are no longer President, Mr Neisser, but any other President. That is to say, every citizen must, if he wants an appointment with a member of the government, be aware that STAPO is doing an act about him because it is being checked in terms of security. – This is an absolutely unacceptable extension of all the monitoring powers that exist! For you can no longer be sure if you invite a minister to open an exhibition somewhere that is not about the association and about the organizers, above all, thick files. But, ladies and gentlemen, my speaking time is soon over, so I must now make our two requests for reading. The first question concerns the subjective right to protection, because that is the side of the medal, which you do not want to know that the citizen has the right to protection by the police. That's what's in demand today. [[Quoted print version removed]] And the amendment concerning DNA, security check and government information is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens are now in favour of a police reform, which is the command of the hour! We are in favour of the police state being destroyed and not built up as you do with this legislative measure today. The protection of privacy, the protection of the fundamental rights of the individual goes beyond everything. That's what we want – and not the police state anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13171	Both amendments, the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits have been submitted, are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Gaál, with a speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13196	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me bring in a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades, which is already before you. The core area, let me put it to you, includes the following: The Federal Minister for the Interior is empowered to contract appropriate appropriate victim protection facilities with the task of addressing people who are threatened by violence for their advice and immaterial support. So that's what we're talking about. Where such a victim protection facility is primarily used for the advice and support of women, the contract should be concluded together with the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection, provided that such an institution mainly serves the advice and support of children, together with the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family. Secondly, it is about DNA analysis – let alone You're referring to me: – In addition, the Security Report contains the criminal and convicted statistics this year, information on key developments from the point of view of the Federal Ministers for Internal Affairs and Justice, the outcome of the sample review of the legality of individual DNA investigations, statistical data and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, with this draft, we also decide on the establishment of the Security Academy – Mr Leikam has already pointed out the importance and importance of this institution today! As we know, the threats to our society have changed completely at the beginning of the 1990s, especially in Europe. The whole spectrum of organised crime must be mentioned in particular. These amended framework conditions should be taken into account in the training of the safety executive. The requirements, especially for managers, have become more complex and extensive. The executive becomes more and more crisis manager, and in order to be able to react sovereignly in conflict situations, the employees must be prepared, trained and trained in practice. New methods of continuing education and training should be used for this purpose. A new education concept must be highly practical. The vocational training, ladies and gentlemen, must face the new challenges of the present and the future. Therefore, the higher and higher management of the security executive and also the security management at the Security Academy will be prepared and regularly trained for these tasks. For example, a new three-year course will be set up for E 1 training, meaning officers, and the vocational training for university graduates – I am thinking of police judges – will be redesigned. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition – and this is extremely important! There, too, the teachers of police and gender schools for their highly responsible activity are trained professionally and educationally. However, the Security Academy will also be open to those people who are professionally involved in issues of public security and crime management, or who are preparing for an appropriate profession. Therefore, there is close cooperation with universities, research institutes and various other educational institutions. This is to be welcomed and, Mr Federal Minister, we also want to thank you for seeing it so comprehensively. I think it is right to say that we can be proud of what has been achieved after years of development and planning. I also hope that one of the next steps will be taken to organize this Security Academy as a technical college and thus make it a public educational institution that goes far beyond the ministerial sphere. That is why, on behalf of all the Members, I would like to speak to all those responsible, first and foremost to you, Mr Federal Minister, Mag. Schlögl, with your predecessor Dr. Lösnak, but also to name two names from the civil service, with Mr. Mag. Sika and Mr. General Instigator, Head of Section Dr. Prugger, thank you very much for achieving this project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I am sure that the former vision will become a respected institution, from which valuable and important impulses and more quality will be derived for the entire safety executive and through which we can provide even more professionalism for security in our country. That is why this amendment to the Security Police Act is fully approved.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13267	Mr Gaál referred to an amendment which was submitted; he also presented this request in his main points. In view of the extent of the request, we have caused it to be in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of this request shall be distributed in the room. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13363	I now give the floor to Mr Jung. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13385	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kiss – now he's back – and Mr. Kostelka played exactly the Janus head in her little wedding scene, which replaced the double eagle in our Republic. [[Abg. Kiss: I'm here all the time!]] Only the heads of this Janus head are not cut off, but the heads of each other are linked, and nothing goes on. This is the symbol of your Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Wrong! You're not immigrated in mythology! Learn mythology! The heads are turned away from each other!]] Two weeks ago, an article was read in the "Kurier" where it was complained that, despite employees, Members were unable to work through a 25-page paper. In this way and In this way, the population is given a false picture of this house. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have a major responsibility for reducing Parliament's reputation in this way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to give you and the public the example of the security police law, how a law is being dealt with in this House, to say that we are being whipped through. ==References== The first draft security police law was drawn up in October 1998. ==References== On November 13, the first government proposal came into force. April 1999 in an extended version, so to speak, a SPÖ minority report, including advanced risk research. – Since the coalition parties, as usual, were unable to agree in many areas that are really sensitive, we had to deal with both papers for safety reasons. The black and red packaging just didn't get so far that one could reach an agreement. That is why the Republic, as has already been said, is being held hostage by you, by your two parties, in the security police sector as far as the state police are concerned. It is a right-free space that needs to be clarified, but not in a dispute, according to the motto: If you're my army news department, I'll cut your state police! – This is ridiculous and harmful to this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ==References== In June, an expert hearing was set up, and the reported experts received documents, which, as it turned out afterwards, were not the relevant ones, because there were still some changes between them. By the way, Mr. Leikam, the chairman, noted – but that is only one detail on the verge – that he believed that only experts would be involved in the field of DNA. However, there were also experts from other fields present. It is precisely this uncertainty and this confusion that has drawn like a red thread through the whole debate. On the morning of the Committee meeting, when we arrived in Parliament, we received a letter from the Minister of the Interior – a "real castle", signed by the Minister of the Interior – from the eve of the eve, in which he presented us with a new paper, 21 pages comprehensively and fundamentally modified. Friendly, this new template, due to the time pressure, was marked with fat of the changes that made up half the paper. Nevertheless, a number of changes have been forgotten and have not been made accordingly, Minister. If only we would have relied on it, we would have stood by it. But our employees – in this case our employee; not only the Members of Parliament and the officials should be praised – have found this naturally. You yourself, Minister of the Interior, had to admit that you were not in a position to receive the last new proposal that we received in the early days – that was already the second one. – to read completely and accurately. This reminds me of the former Mr Graff, who once said: I can't read everything! – Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we cannot deal with an important and serious law of this Republic. It's just unbearable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Then, when Mr Leikam, who was clearly overburdened at the beginning of the sitting, was reported, it turned out – listen carefully, Mr. Cot! . that this presentation was brought in by the Members who were not known here "point, point" and "point, point" and therefore was not legally existing. [[Abg. Kiss: I listen all the time!]] [[Abg. Kiss: What do you say about the Security Police Act?]] What was the result? – Newly messed up! "Point, Point" and "Point, Point" became Leikam and Kiss, and the hearing of the professionals could begin. However, they had to talk about a subject that they did not really deal with. [[Abg. Kiss: 4.5 minutes, but not a single word to the Security Police Act!]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] That was a fact that was the way you whipped through this law. [[Abg. Kiss: I would like such a speech...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That's it! But that at the beginning of the meeting there was a final report from the Committee, which, among other things, was to be found that the debate between the Ministers of the Interior and the Members – this time not "point, point" and "point, point" but "XXXX" – took the words – did not take the floor at all, because they did not debate at all, but they knew before what was going to come out – only round off the picture of your work, Mr Kiss, Mr Leikam! [[Abg. Kiss: You don't know, you weren't even there!]] There you can reach out if you have not yet reached your agreement! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that is no longer a laugh, as Mr Kiss has done in committee. [[Abg. Kiss: This is for crying!]] This only makes a mockery of democracy, Mr Kiss. They're laughing again! You don't take this seriously, but it's killing for this republic! [[Abg. Kiss:... not a single sentence to the law!]] It's a very important law you laughed at, and it's done in a way that was really ridiculous. They make, yes, the Members of this House are degrading by this way of dealing to the government's agents – and not to free mandates and representatives of the people!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13591	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Schlögl in word. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13612	Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Kiss has rightly said, it is true that this is once again a typical bill of the Ministry of the Interior, which is criticized by all sides – one is too little, the other goes too far. I therefore believe that it is right that this law has been presented in this proposal. And this law has also been very detailed and very wide-ranging. It is not true what the Freedom Party is saying here that the last Committee meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been overduely discussed. – I presented the first draft in September last year, and since September last year, this novel of the Security Police Act has been discussed in a very detailed and very broad way, ladies and gentlemen. Before the Council of Ministers' decision was adopted last October, there was a detailed discussion with the various political parties as well as within the various ministries, which also led to a wide variety of changes. [[Abg. Boy: That was a completely different law!]] This law was then passed in the Council of Ministers and forwarded to Parliament. Even during the time of the assignment here in Parliament and the laying down of the bill, there has been a wide-ranging discussion about it, so that I can really say that this present proposal has been very widely debated, very many of the criticismists' amendments have been met and included in the draft. I would like to be willing if you want to list what has been changed in this new law from the original draft to the one present today. [[Abg. Young: You can't put that on the last day, Mr. Minister!]] - Please? [[Abg. Young: You can't put that on the last day, so the Members...!]] No, no, no, I am willing to explain to you how many changes there have been in this bill. I have tried very well to address the various opinions in this House, to recognise concerns, and I have even taken account of these concerns as far as, for example, the criticism of some experts from the Committee on the Interior has been taken into account and today a motion for amendment has been tabled by Mr Gaál on the initiative of the experts in the Committee. [[Abg. Boy: Yes, it doesn't use anything!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore strongly reject the fact that this novelle has been decided by force. On the contrary: There was an almost one-year discussion about this novel, and I think there is hardly any other law in which so many of the opposition parties have been introduced, as is the case with this new law. I would also like to make it clear that this new law would extend police powers and undermine the rule of law. – That’s just wrong and wrong! All of us here in this House, who make politics within the framework of the parliamentary parties, confess ourselves to the rule of law of Austria and to democracy! We must therefore also commit ourselves to an executive who has the legal responsibility to do security work in our country in the interests of the security of our country and its citizens on a legal basis and under democratic control. I can assure you that, as a responsible Minister of the Interior, all the officials of my department, as well as my political movement and the coalition partner, make every effort to ensure that the rule of law is never undermined. I will always be able to face the collapse of the rule of law with all my strength! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian executive is an important part of the Austrian legal system, the Austrian executive is the pillar of our rule of law. The Austrian executive represents freedom, security, justice and, above all, respect for fundamental rights and human rights! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I can assure you that this amendment to the Security Police Act, through clear regulations of protection and control measures, especially in sensitive areas, strengthens legal certainty in our state. Finally, measures to maintain internal security serve not only to combat crime, but above all to protect people in our country. I believe that personal security, ladies and gentlemen, is also an important human right. The legal understanding of the Austrian executive corresponds to the protection of human rights and the guarantee of human rights. In this sense, the Austrian executive also operates; more than 7.8 million official acts per year document this very impressively. They also document very impressively that the Austrian executive enjoys the highest confidence of the Austrian population. Of course, there are always official acts, which are borne by mistakes, of course there are also official acts in which there are violations, of course there are official acts that are not related to my understanding of police. It is our common task, if there are such official acts, to proceed with the corresponding consequence and also with the corresponding hardness against such officials. I'm not one of those in the ministry who cover a falsely understood camera party. On the contrary: I believe that a falsely understood comradery is at great risk to the Austrian executive and must therefore be fought with full force. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Security Police Act includes a variety of changes. The honourable Members have just mentioned a few. For example, I would like to mention that this amendment to the Security Police Act finally involves the municipal guards and their more than 1,500 members in the individual federal states in carrying out security police matters – a concern that has existed for many years and is now finally being implemented. This amendment to the Security Police Act also includes the introduction of the Human Rights Advisory Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kier and Mrs Stoisits! It was never my job to create an independent body. I have never claimed that this is my goal. It is also not in any of my broadcasts that I would like to use the Human Rights Advisory Board as an independent body to determine arbitrary or actual abuses within the Austrian executive. This is something you want – I accept it – but I have never seen it like that. In my understanding, the task of independent auditing has the Austrian judicial system. The Human Rights Advisory Board is an expert, balanced and efficient body, which has the opportunity to determine by independent experts whether there have been any infringements of the Austrian executive, and to present these abuses to the public accordingly. This is the idea of the Human Rights Advisory Council, as it is currently planned. It should not be a permanent independent committee of inquiry – it would be the task of Parliament to use such a committee – but it is a consultative body of the Austrian Minister of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, which has the opportunity to act independently without instructions. I mean, that's very important and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! The composition of the Human Rights Advisory Council alone shows that this independence has been safeguarded. Or do you really believe, honourable Member Kier, that personalities such as university lecturer Holzinger, like university professor Funk, like section head Miklau, like Mag. Walter Suntinger from the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute, such as Monsignor Dr. Michael Wilhelm, as university professor Benedek, Dr. Jesionek, or the president of the Association for Democracy for Africa, have been led by the gang band of the Austrian Interior Minister? You don't believe that! The "Falter", a magazine that is undoubtedly not in a close relationship with the Austrian Interior Minister, wrote: The Human Rights Advisory Board will be a body which will undoubtedly be very uncomfortable, a body which will have the task of controlling the work of the Austrian executive very closely. I would like to mention what the Secretary-General of Amnesty International, Heinz Patzelt, said. He called the Human Rights Advisory Council unique in Europe and a very, very great opportunity for human rights in our country. . I think that says very well how important this Human Rights Advisory Council is. How difficult it is to meet your expectations again your statements today, in which you, Mr Kier, accused me of having waited far too long for the establishment of the Human Rights Advisory Council – five years ago, you said, he had been called for. – That is not true, Mr Kier. I have already announced the establishment of a Human Rights Advisory Council more than a year and a half ago, and I have now tried, as a result of the events surrounding the tragic death of a displaced person on the flight from Austria to Sofia, to put the Human Rights Advisory Council on its feet for the time being by a regulation. With today's decision-making, the Human Rights Advisory Council will have its corresponding legal coverage. So what you are accusing me of in an issue is not true, namely that I would have a "disrupted relationship" with the rule of law and the constitution that the Human Rights Advisory Council had already been set up before the decision-making process in Parliament. – There is a corresponding regulation – that is, I have made everything right by the rule of law, and I would therefore like to reject this allegation very clearly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Extensive risk research is such a thing. I do not want to go into detail here, ladies and gentlemen, because I can only smile about some of what has been said here in the plenary debate in Parliament. The fact is that in this House there have not been very many interested people who have really been involved in advanced risk research. I see the fact that there will be no extended risk research legally, with a smiling and crying eye. With a crying eye therefore, because I believe it is necessary and important to regulate the work of state protection bodies very, very clearly, so as to ensure that there is no legal space as far as possible – to protect officials working in this field, to protect the Minister, but above all to protect the Austrian population. I see that as long as I have proposed extended risk research in the form of legislation, there is no legal risk and no legal space. Deputies Kier! On the basis of the public debate, I said very clearly to my officials, both head of section Michael Sika and the responsible officer of the State Police, Dr. Peter Heindl, that only on clear principles of the rule of law can the state police work and the extended investigation of the danger as long as it is not decided as a law, must not be applied by the Austrian executive. Nevertheless, I believe that advanced risk research is necessary and important because it is an important precautionary measure in view of foreseeable threats. I believe that there are threats that it is important to observe certain groups within our society, which have not yet fulfilled any specific criminal offences – of course, under strict rule of law, of course under accompanying control, of course, only if the judicial system also gives the opportunity to do so. I think that is necessary and important, but that will not be possible on a legal basis for the time being, and therefore it is not possible for our executives to act in this area in order to make this clear. – That's why with a crying eye. With a smiling eye, therefore, because I believe that such an instrument must be clearly regulated by law, not only in the field of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, but also in the area of national defence. I therefore believe that it is very good that we have decided not to decide for the time being on advanced risk research, but to seek a common solution for army intelligence, army defence and state police during the next legislative period, also for how these three security devices can be controlled even more effectively and even better than they are currently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to reject the doubleness and double morality of some media. For example, I only produce the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – an institution that some almost call the central body for some political parties. The 'Salzburger Nachrichten' have been talking for weeks... – I did not address you, Mr Kier, but if you think it is your central body, I must say, perhaps you are right with it, I do not know. [[Abg. Dr. Kier:... "Kronen Zeitung"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The "Salzburger Nachrichten" have written weeks, yes, for months, against extended risk research. But then, when it's established that advanced risk research is not coming, I read the following editorials in the "Salzburger Nachrichten": Victory failure. The two coalition parties ÖVP and SPÖ have made it quite clear that advanced risk research does not come because they do not want to allow control of their intelligence services, for the red and black ones. - Quote. I think that's double-duty and a double-moral: First, one writes weeks, yes, for months, against advanced risk research, and then, if it doesn't come, one throws that back to the coalition parties. I do not think it is right to make this quite conscious, and that should also be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Summary: I believe that this amendment to the Security Police Act contains a lot of things that are very important and necessary. I just want to focus on what I believe is the most important thing: DNA analysis. I do not understand some of the concerns expressed here. Mrs Stoisits has once again said only a part of the truth. [[Abg. Wabl: No, that can't be!]] It has rightly said the concerns expressed by the Minister of Justice, but it has not said what her own expert in the Committee on the Interior has said. She asked her own experts what he said about DNA analysis and this letter from the Minister of Justice, and her own expert clearly said that all this is Humbug and that DNA analysis is very, very important. – You can read this in the Minutes, and I believe that this should be mentioned in the truth half-way here. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I don't understand the concerns expressed here for DNA analysis. In my opinion, DNA analysis is not only about transferring perpetrators, ladies and gentlemen, but, in my opinion, it is equally important for perpetrators to be excluded. I could bring you a variety of examples. An example: A 17-year-old girl has been raped in the Styria under terrible circumstances. This girl and three witnesses have independently accused a man of having committed this act. This man was arrested. With the DNA analysis, however, it was no doubt clear that he is not the perpetrator. Without the DNA analysis, the suspicion that this man might have been condemned would have been very obvious because of the testimony. In other words, there are also many examples that the DNA analysis can exclude perpetrators. It also comes up with the accusation that we would take every bagatelle case into account to carry out a DNA analysis. – That too is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! Since October 1997 - i.e. in almost two years - there have been 14 385 oral cavities. It can be said that it is estimated to be about 8,000 to 9,000 per year. Last year, however, there were 205,000 offenders who had been punished. 205,000 offenders – and 8 000 of them have been analyzed. This alone shows that the statement that every small shoplifter is condemned to DNA analysis and to the mouthline is humbug and a construction. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Overall: Should you not think about how preventive and very effective the DNA analysis and the oral cavities are in the present, emotionalized atmosphere? I personally would have no problem if this group of people were to be extended. Deputies Kier! There is a possibility of deletion for everyone. Everyone has the possibility and also the securitised right that his recognition service data be deleted if there is no doubt that he has nothing to do with the crime under him. . So I mean that it can be shown that the arguments in this regard are not at all correct. The importance of DNA analysis is seen from the fact that in the last quarter of the year we have resolved four murders, 17 rapes, 256 burglaries and a variety of other crimes. I therefore believe that all these changes, which are included in the Novelle Security Police Act, are very important and necessary and contribute to greater rule of law in Austria, but also to increased security for our people. In this sense, I ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13782	The next speaker is Mr Platter, with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13803	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, two, three remarks to this Security Police Act. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] For me, it would be incomprehensible if Members of the House of Lords did not give their consent to this bill and, in particular, to DNA analysis. I would be interested in the voting behaviour of Mr Jung, who, in his contribution to the debate, did not address the SPG with a single sentence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] In my opinion, that was an absolute scandal. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – I cannot deal with you in terms of content, because you have not said anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to give you an example of DNA analysis. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jung and Mr Mag. Schweitzer.]] - Listen to me, 'cause that's not quite uninteresting. You certainly haven't read the text of the law. An example of DNA analysis: ==References== In September 1998, a 73-year-old woman was brutally murdered in her family home in Zirl, Tyrol. The trace protection could be ensured under the fingernails of the dead DNA-fitted material. There were no indications of the suspected perpetrator at the time. Two months after this murder – 26th. November 1998 – a Polish citizen was arrested for commercial theft, and a mouthline was also made. The Polish national was then transferred to Poland without further suspicion. A month later – that is, at the end of 1998 – the outcome of the DNA analysis was present, and that pole, which was previously not suspected of having committed this murder, could clearly be transferred as a perpetrator, and the two fellow perpetrators could also be arrested. I spoke to the officials who carried out this official act. You said without the DNA analysis, it would have been absolutely impossible to explain this murder. – It is therefore positive that this excellent opportunity is now put on a legal basis. This is what we are confessing, and we are glad that this bill is under discussion today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I see my speaking time is about to run out. It is gratifying that DNA analysis is regulated by law today, but it is also gratifying that the Security Academy is decided so that the SPÖ Ministers of the Interior do not always do so for nothing. So the flooring is justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: During this legislative period, we have always stood behind the Minister of the Interior and strengthened his back, but not quite so with some SPÖ representatives towards our ministers. So it has been in the Causa Schwaz lately, where Minister Farnleitner was constantly beaten and made ready. I would like to read a letter from the mayor of the city of Schwaz to Minister Farnleitner on 14 November. ==References== [[Abg. Lammer: A red or black mayor?]] Here's what it says: Mr. Minister! First, a brief report on the situation: The situation is still serious. A big event can be expected at any time. Therefore, the evacuation measure should continue to be maintained. The cooperation between the offices of the ministry and the country works very well, and I thank you for the support of your experts. Our common objective must be to achieve the safety of the population and to give the people concerned all the help that is possible. The cause analysis is not our main task: The main focus is on dealing with the disaster. However, it is clear to me that the resumption of the mining plant is only possible once all the expert groups have come to a uniform assessment of the situation. With friendly greetings – Mayor Hans Lintner. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that fairness to our ministers is also present in these difficult security issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13882	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Mr President, you have a total of 12 minutes left at your disposal and you want to have put the clock at 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e13903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really unfortunate that this important law will be passed in a Ho-Ruck action and on the last day of this legislative period in the House, especially because there was no real discussion in the Committee on the Interior. Federal Minister! It was true that, at the beginning of the discussions of the Committee on the Interior, Members received a completely new presentation. Of course, it is necessary to study and work through these accordingly. The opinion of the Federal Minister on the first statements of speech also showed how necessary and important it would have been to have a comprehensive discussion about it. I regret that this important matter has not been dealt with. The position of the Liberals was clearly explained by Mr Kier. I believe that it is really necessary to make a correction to this amendment to the Security Police Act, because in many cases it is too much to go too far. There is an insufficient legal provision – especially with regard to the issues of DNA analysis, security checks and so on. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! These were the reasons and our proposals for amendments, for corrections. There are two points in this amendment to the Security Police Act, which we Liberals will approve; therefore we have called for separate vote. One point is the establishment of the Security Academy. Federal Minister! We are glad that there will be this training site. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The light is already shining!]] We expect you to become an open, open educational centre and to ensure access from the outside, so that the training of the executive is carried out on the basis of modern scientific knowledge. The second point concerns the extension of the ban. This is a very important addition to the existing provisions in order to limit and limit violence in the family. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14005	The amendment tabled by Mr Moser is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14029	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The church guards are certainly not the Causa prima of the nation, but it is a beautiful thing that we have now finally solved this problem. This is a great advantage for those small places that have church guards. They now have more security that they can very well need. The Security Director is given an important position here. I am very glad that the Lower Austrian Security Director, Hofrat Zeipelt, is a friend of the municipal guards. I appeal to all the other Länder that their attitude should also be similar. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank my chairman, Mr Toni Leikam, at the end of this legislative period for the pleasant work in the Committee on the Interior and for the collegiality that exists there. Finally, it reflects that collegiality and companionship, which is also at home in the executive. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to take this opportunity to say the following: There's been so much talk about the "police state" here today. – I have my nose full in this regard! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's an immeasurable thing to talk about a "police state" over and over again. Yes, do we have a police minister? Do we have minions as executive officers? Or what's going on here? – This is a monsterity! And we will tell people outside how to judge and deal with executives here in Parliament. This is just not to be done anymore, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, at the end of my speech – my speaking time is relatively short – I would like to add the following: I expressly acknowledge the "Action Fairness", ladies and gentlemen! As a businessman, I also call myself "Action Fairness", because I believe that the basic values of equality and solidarity are an important function in our circles. It's a value and not a discussion. And to these values we should confess ourselves! I am convinced that, in the sense of a good Austrian tradition, the social partners will bring the "Action Fairness" a good solution. I conclude with the thanks of the executive, to all the officials throughout Austria. I conclude with the thanks of Minister Schlögl, who has also acted very, very well here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14079	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14100	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! With reference to the Security Police Act or to its revision, I would like to say that there are points which are absolutely necessary and important for the executive. That is also the opinion of the liberals. On the one hand, however, we are too far off, and on the other hand we must also accept this, Mr Kiss and Mr Platter, if you have the opportunity to take the floor. I ask you: How do you really deal with the opposition? The last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the subject of the amendment was a disaster! That's not how you deal with the opposition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you have no clear conditions here, you will find cooperation with us relatively difficult. Mr Kiss, you have already made an absolute commitment to advanced risk research. My colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé has already pointed out how important this is. The Federal Minister has also stated that advanced risk research is important in so far as observations can only be carried out after the current legal basis has been observed if the actions are already criminal. That is, in advance, the executive cannot act. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Kiss! Now we will see to what extent you take your word seriously! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the nail sample for the pillow! What are you talking about? That's what I'm curious about!]] Here you can prove whether you are standing for advanced risk research or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14160	The motion for a resolution just read is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Karl Freund. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14184	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out, of course, that it is important that we continue to guarantee our people security and stability. It is gratifying that the crime rate is falling in Austria and that the education rate is rising. Our executive needs important and effective means and instruments to be prepared for the future. This Security Police Act sets out important measures for the effective investigation of crimes by the Austrian executive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of the most important is certainly the legal protection of DNA analysis. In my opinion, therefore, it is also urgent to put this on legal legs so to speak, in order to make an important contribution to improving the fight against crime. In addition, I also believe that this novelle will be very important in the direction that the municipal guards will be anchored in the security administration. This means that all human resources available in the field of security can be fully exploited. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! A few weeks ago, I was at the Gendarmerieposten in Schärding with our security spokesman Paul Kiss. There we were confronted with the following problem: In addition to the usual gendarmerie activity, officials also have the right to carry out the work in respect of migrant workers, which must be taken over there. All persons who are rejected from Germany will be delivered to the Gendarmerieposten Schärding and the necessary measures will have to be taken there. That means: Show before the Authority, ad refund, recognition service treatment, escorting to prisons, asylum homes, airports or other border crossings at the EU external border. In recent years, foreign police have been treated to 5,000 people. There was a systemization, but officials were withdrawn again, to the border crossings to Wolowitz and to the Mühlviertel. And that's just not to see. In order to have efficient opportunities, officials must be available there. I really would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to ensure that the original state is restored at once and that more officials are made available again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Estimated Minister of State! I would also like to raise the following problem: there are general army posts for which only one service vehicle is available. There must be a second vehicle, even if it is only a necessary one to remedy and ensure better efficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I welcome the changes in the Security Police Act and of course I would like to agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14248	I give the floor to Mr Lacner. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14270	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14325	The motion for a resolution drawn up by Mr Lacner is sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. I call Mr Grossruck. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14349	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A well-known Austrian song of the First General Insurance is: "The evil is always and everywhere." If one sees the attitude of the Greens and Liberals on this issue, then it should be their favorite song. But they suspect evil not on the perpetrator's side, but on those who are supposed to fight evil, namely, in the executive. Otherwise, I cannot explain various debates and behaviours by you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kier is not in the hall now, but I am now talking to him as if he were fictitious in here. Member of the Kier, to the heart: You do not believe that you have been overwhelmed by these supplementary proposals and by these additions in the Committee, especially you, which comes out three or four times at each item on the agenda. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Young.]] For me, Mr Kier, after Johann Wolfgang Goethe, you are the last all-round genius we have left. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You haven't been overwhelmed, but that was a constituency. You have provoked the extract, because at the same time you have also been expelled from the Committee on Social Affairs to have the necessary mediaecho. But you didn't get that – unfortunately – for you: unfortunately. But that's good. In the Committee's view – and is still here in plenary today – the legal status of DNA analysis has been decided in the context of this extended Security Police Act. [[Abg. May. Barmüller shall keep a copy of the Rules of Procedure up to date.]] I would like to congratulate the Green and Mrs Stoisits on their expert, Mr Universitäts Professor Dr. Bertel. However, I can imagine that Mrs Stoisits was not entirely satisfied with what Mr Bertel told us. He has objectively defended mass screening and DNA analysis, despite suggestive questions, whether this would not be dangerous, whether it would not be a matter of political concern for democracy, and said that this was the best solution we currently have to get genetic fingerprints. Dr. Bertel said he's for mass screening, because you're thinking, Dr. Bertel continues: If a crime happens in an area, everyone is the potential culprit. Each one looks at the other, and each one feels like a victim. With mass screenings, those who are innocent can be secured or deprived of suspicion. – From this point of view, DNA analysis and mass screening are also quite outstanding, as university professor Dr. Scheidauer, who was invited by the coalition parties, explained in an excellent way – and I hope for everyone understandably – the meaning and necessity of this DNA analysis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: The so-called Human Advisory Council, the Human Rights Advisory Council, is necessary – we are installing it today, because, Mrs Langthaler, you will apologize once you promise, it is deeply human. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: No, also several times!]] Do you give me a hand? Okay. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, good!]] I too listened to your remarks yesterday in your farewell speech in a deep sense. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Yesterday!]] - Before yesterday. [[Abg. Böhacker: Another mistake!]] - It's another mistake. Errare humanum est, it's so beautiful. Ladies and gentlemen! This Human Rights Advisory Council is necessary in order to be able to control the increased powers that the executive receives accordingly. Therefore also a yes, an absolute, a meaningful yes to this installation. I only hope that this advisory board will act objectively and that it will also act accordingly for the public.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14471	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few minutes' speaking time, I would like to speak on the subject of Security Academy. What lasts for a very long time now becomes good. The Austrian People's Party is for the Security Academy because we can never do enough for the security of Austria, our country. The Security Academy has already been set up among the individual ministers, starting from Minister Lösnak to One to Schlögl, various flooring and foundation stone layings. Now it's finally that far, ladies and gentlemen. Now we get the Security Academy, and the goal is clear: We want one of the demands of police work to ensure just training at the highest level, and that is what we want to ensure with the establishment of the Security Academy. Five positions on the situation of the executive: On the one hand, in the case of executives, the claims to the individual officials have increased considerably. The official is also required in particular as regards his potential for conflict resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! All police and gendarmerie officials are under enormous pressure of decision day after day, even during the night and on Sundays and holidays. It is also demanded that they act in accordance with the law. In addition to problem and conflict resolution expertise, social competence is also required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - Thank you many times. All of this in the face of an ever-increasing willingness of criminals, including organised international crime. Federal Minister! An appeal to you, to your responsibility: We will pay particular attention to what you will do with the regulatory authority that we are now granting. We will observe very closely at what time and in what organisational structures you will establish the Security Academy, how objective the access to education and how objective the admission criteria for students and teachers will be. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: With this legal basis for the Security Academy, we offer as many executive officials and security officers as possible access to this institution and thus Austria an executive with the highest degree of training and international knowledge. The Austrian People's Party agrees, of course, to the enforcement of this concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14535	I call Mr Matthias Achs. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14556	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The new Novelle Security Police Act will take a further step towards more protection for the citizens of our country. I don't know any other area that's as sensitive as the security area. Over the last ten years, a system has been under way in Europe, borders and walls have fallen. Of course, we have known that this great change will also bring us risks. Today, after ten years, it can be said that we have mastered these risks. And if today Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, then I have to say that it does not come about. I think we can say that ten years ago we recognized the signs of the time that we had already set the course for the future when the then Minister of the Interior Franz Löschnak from Parliament received these "security billions" in order to employ more staff and better equip the executives. This positive development has continued until the current Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl. I think we should thank for this today. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, but also all Austrian executives very much for their work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Freeman and the Deputies of ÖVP and Liberal Forum.]] If, after ten years in Parliament, you can say that you have been involved in this positive development, you can of course be proud and satisfied. Since this is my last speech here in the National Council today, I would also like to thank you: I would like to thank my club, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, for all the Members of this House. I also thank colleagues from the other clubs for their constant meeting and mutual respect. I would also like to thank the Minister of the Interior, of course. I wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, every good thing for the future. I wish you health and satisfaction, and I wish those fellow Members who will again be members of the new National Council to have a good hand in the leadership of our common home country, the Republic of Austria. At the end of the day, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a Burgenland red man still has the need to hand over a high-quality and powerful red wine to the club presidium, the Minister of the Interior, but also to all the members of the club.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14614	Mr. Achs! I would like to thank you not only for the fact that you are now congratulating me on a bottle of Burgenian wine, but I would also like to thank you for the discussions you have held in this House. [[Call the SPÖ: You haven't gotten anything yet!]] I wish you good luck for your further life course. They are a successful mayor and do not leave politics. I would also like to say: You, Mr Achs, were also a representative of a certain company here, something which is also very important in this House. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] Excuse me, Mrs Dunst, but perhaps we could move the distribution action to the end of this plenary session. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] There is a word to speak now, namely that of the honourable Member's head. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14681	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Vorarlberg municipality of Brand was particularly hard hit by the natural disasters that our federal state has suffered in recent months. My colleague, Mr Lackner, from the SPÖ, has already tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at helping this community quickly, beyond the usual level. The only access road to this place is slipped off in the course of natural disasters, so that this tourist resort is currently not accessible, which is, of course, immense economic damage to this tourism community. From this point of view, I would like to thank very much all those who have contributed to this motion for a resolution and, above all, to the talks with the Minister for Finance. Mr Lackner and Mr Feurstein, of course, with the help of my clubman Andreas Khol, have played a very important part in the fact that this commitment could be given; for the municipality of Brand, a matter of existential importance, as I said. In addition, there is already a commitment to a further special funding for a cable car project, which needs to be defined in detail and which will make this municipality independent of the road network in future. There is also much agreement on this. I would also like to thank all those who have tried to do so – across all party borders – quite cordially for it, especially on behalf of the community of Brand, for which this project is truly vital for survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14721	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of reporting has not been required. We shall now proceed to the vote, and we shall first vote on the draft law in 2023. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. The Members of Parliament, Dr Kier and Comrades, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have also tabled supplementary or amendments. There is also a request from Mr Kier for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on those parts of the draft law which are affected by the supplementary and amending proposals, and subsequently on the remaining parts which have not yet been agreed. The present draft law contains constitutional provisions, so that I first, within the meaning of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure determines the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall be voting separately with regard to Article I(2), paragraphs 10 to 15 and 29 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be an appropriate sign. – This part is accepted by the majority. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 15a para. 1 introduced. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees may give a sign of consent. – This has been accepted by the majority, and I expressly note that there is a two-thirds majority required for the constitution. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I § § § §s 15b and 15c para. 1 and paragraphs 7, 19 and 23. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. This part was adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I, points 6, 24 and 34 and Article IX(2). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This amendment has been accepted by the majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr Kier and Comrades, have tabled an additional proposal concerning Article I(8). Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article I(20), (36) and Article III and Article VI. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part was accepted by a majority of the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades, as well as the representatives of Dr. Kier and comrades, have each submitted an amendment to delete Article I. 55a para. Point 3 of the second paragraph. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning this part of the draft law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This amendment has been accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades, as well as representatives of Dr. Kier and comrades, have made one amendment, which also contains the remaining parts of Article I (55a) and 55b, together with headings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. The vote on the requested amendment of the paragraph designation is also inadequate. I shall now vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part was accepted by a majority of the Committee's report. The Members of Parliament, Dr Kier and Comrades, have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article I (55c) and the introduction of paragraph 21. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article I(26) 67 para. 1 introduced. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have also tabled an amendment concerning this part of the draft law. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part of the Committee's report has been adopted by a large majority. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment concerning the remaining parts of paragraph 26. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This part was accepted by a majority of the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a point 30a and the insertion in the table of contents in Article I. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(38). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment concerning Article I(38). Whoever agrees, may give a sign. This amendment has been accepted by the majority. Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of paragraph 39a into Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This supplementary request is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(40). Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – That's the majority. This part was accepted by a majority of the Committee's report. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This part of the draft law is largely adopted, and I expressly note the presence of the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give a sign on this point. – The draft is adopted by a majority of the majority at third reading, once again in the presence of the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades on "extensive research". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Lacner, Mr Head and Mr Comrades on ensuring the accessibility of communities in the event of disasters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 214.) 25. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1913 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Agricultural and Forestry Schools (1972 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e14994	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. I give the floor to Mrs Madl as the first speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15021	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Government template: The Federal Law, which amends the Federal Law on Agriculture and Forestry, introduces and for itself only an adaptation to the now applicable school organisation law and is at first sight not a big thing, because it is, as has been said, an adjustment. However, if you look closer to § 12, namely the conditions for admission, you see that there is, under paragraph 1, a positive testimony to the 4th of these Forestry Federal Schools. Class primary school, which is intended to be a normal admission for middle performance groups, will be guaranteed if they are assessed with a "good", but in the case of a "satisfying" the class conference will have to be tried in order to enable the student to take up. However, if you are under the Point 2, it is noted that the evidence of the successful completion of the Polytechnic School at 9. School level can be seen as a premise of admission. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, for a student who has attended the Polytechnic course, the possibility is given, depending on how he has cut off, either the testimony of the 4. Class of primary school or the certificate of the polytechnic course to choose. In other words, this government template has in turn succeeded in evaluating the polytechnic course, which is because a choice is left: If the polytechnic course is not completed positively, the student still has the possibility that class certificate of 4. To present a class of primary school to enter this agricultural and forestry school. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a fresh proof that the polytechnic course is being devalued. I really want you to consider this and agree to my amendment, which I will now present, because it is very difficult for the teacher in the polytechnic course if there are students inside who need to start with the certificate of the polytechnic course absolutely nothing more. It does not matter if they complete this course positively or negatively, and for the teacher it is not very pleasant to teach in these schools. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please vote For example, students who have not given any weight to the polytechnic course and who have completed it negatively do not have the certificate of departure of the 4. Class of primary school can be used.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15105	The amendment tabled by Mrs Madl is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. As the next speaker, I would like to give the floor to Mr Höchtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15129	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this small but important law in this field of agricultural and forestry schools, we set one of the many improvements that have been possible over the course of the four years of this legislative period. To say just one sentence on Mrs Madl's comments: This does not constitute a depreciation or a reduction of the opportunities for the students concerned, but through the certificate and the condition by means of the completed 9. This is actually an additional opportunity for these students to enter these schools. Whenever there is a chance to improve the opportunities for students, the vast majority of MEPs say yes to this improvement. I would also like to expressly say a yes to this improvement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I am no longer going to speak directly of this law, which still contains adjustments in school leave, third-party possibilities, the partial right of access to the school organisation law, that is, all that we have decided on in the school organisation law, but I would like to use the few minutes available to me to say that over the course of these four years several things have been made possible by the joint, by the constructive work of various Members at first in the teaching committee and then in the plenary session. We have a two-thirds majority in many laws, since we in the Committee on Education have an obligation to take the particular challenge of being very consensual. I believe that this is a necessity in the field of education, which is a particularly sensitive area. This, despite quite different starting points, has made it possible to make progress and improve in a number of aspects. I would just like to mention the most important points. In this legislative period, it was possible to initiate an ever-increasing yes to school autonomy from a very centralist school organisation – a historic step that has become possible in these last four years. We are confessing this because increasing personal responsibility in small and medium-sized enterprises is also to be achieved in the field of education. We could reach a second: We have many measures on the foreign language offensive together with the Ministry of Education, together with the Minister of Education, which can and can achieve, from a single point of view: Foreign language skills are an essential prerequisite for being or staying competitive at a time when competitiveness is becoming more and more necessary not only across Europe but worldwide. I even say that it is really unique – and I thank all the Members who have said yes to this – that we have just recently decided that from 1st century onwards. The school is intended to teach English in playful form to students. This is a unique experiment across Europe, and I think it is positive that we should continue in this direction. I even think that we should achieve that, in addition to the good knowledge in the German mother tongue, there is also very good knowledge of English. This creates the basis, which creates the prerequisite for the youth of Austria to maintain full competitiveness in the European and global areas in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, We have tried very hard to make a difference also in the field of the technology offensive – and I must say a special thank you to the Federal Minister. All federal schools in Austria have access to the Internet. I think that's an achievement that's still too little known. This is something that could be achieved in consistent work. Mrs. Federal Minister! Really, thank you very much for this great step that could be taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have permeability, we have in the field of professional maturity testing, we have taken steps in the field of gift promotion. The next legislative period will undoubtedly have to be marked by the fact that we must do everything we can to ensure the quality we have achieved, and I am convinced that 120 000 educators in Austria will make a significant contribution with their training. On the occasion of the last educational debate in this legislative period, I would like to say the following: We thank the parents, the students and the teachers for their willingness to improve the school partnership. At the end of this legislative period, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Education for their constructive cooperation; a special thank you goes to the Federal Minister: With you, Mrs. Federal Minister, it was possible – sometimes also in a very constructive, intensive discussion phase – to achieve the best for the further development of our schools. We of the ÖVP say a clear yes to this present bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15212	Mr Antoni has now come to speak. Speaking time 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15234	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The decision on the novel of the Federal Law on Agriculture and Forestry will be taken today. In terms of content, my two previous speakers have already said what it is all about. I am therefore saving myself from taking this up again, but I would like to add, just like my previous speaker, that there were very important things that were moving for our education during this phased legislative period. In addition to the above-mentioned autonomy, the foreign language offensive and the technology offensive, a number of measures have also been taken in the final legislative period. Understandably, opposition parties will list what could not be achieved, what is still necessary, and I also have a great understanding of that. But that government representatives will say what has been achieved – and I think it has been achieved incredibly much – is also a matter of course. I take the very, very important step in the realization and introduction of the professional maturity test. It has made the education process more flexible and transparent for young people. The 'Teaching' educational dead end was finally removed. Today, it is actually possible to make a career with teaching. In addition, the professional maturity test is an essential part of the quality offensive for workers, and it is also an important step in terms of lifelong and skills-enhancing learning. Further attention should be paid to the further development and continuation of integration for pupils in the field of secondary education 1, i.e. in the primary and secondary levels of the AHS. There we are, as I mean, on a good path, although it can be improved. We have legislated the so-called early warning system. It was possible to reduce the number of repetitious people slightly – I believe success has been achieved – but it must be said that if the statistics we are currently in are correct, the number of "not enough", the number of expected repetitiouss for the coming school year should be considered to be too high and that intensive efforts should be made to further develop this early warning system. If we realize that a student has difficulties, help must be immediate. I also believe that vocational orientation in the 3rd and 4th years. School level in the field of secondary education was a very important step because the preparation, the collegial introduction of young people into vocational training is something important. In my opinion, the School Book Action is on the right track; it should be further developed into a multimedia action. We need to familiarize our students with the computer, in dealing with the Internet, with the Intranet. Telelearning can and should already be possible in school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the final applause, Mr Antoni!]] No, no, Mr Khol! You have bothered me very much in my last speech; you will not succeed today. We have also succeeded in introducing the flexible school entry phase – and this has been a special concern of our group. The school is more child-friendly just at the start of school, has become more child-like. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Except for the performance assessment!]] It is possible to address the requirements of the school beginners even more intensively, even more targetedly. It also pains us, Mrs Schaffenrath, that unfortunately it has not succeeded in discussing and perhaps even implementing a more comprehensive reform of performance assessment. But it's not all day evening, we're going to work intensively for it during the next legislative period. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The light shines!]] The foreign language offensive has already been addressed by Mr Höchtl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs Schaffenrath, my speaking time is so short. Ladies and gentlemen will also speak; I cannot now respond to intermediate calls. As for the foreign language offensive, I think – and we agree – that there is still a need for an intensification of teacher education and training. But we are also there to improve things; It is necessary to continue. I do not believe that the law that the further development of the educational academies towards higher education is a policy of education which the Social Democratic Party has been waiting for for 72 years, because this issue was first addressed at the SPÖ Party in Linz in 1927. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From Otto Glöckel!]] After many intense, controversial discussions, we have succeeded in bringing this to the rails now. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Teachers are always talking for a long time!]] We have succeeded in increasing school and home allowances; Project work in the field of general education and vocational education and training has been carried out. And it should not be overlooked the good, successful reception network for young people in the government, including Mrs Gehrer. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The woman Gehrer!]] Apprenticeships, courses, pre-teaching have been implemented. I therefore believe that we are on a good path, but it should be said: If the economy in the future is not possible – for what reasons always, and the reasons are understandable – to offer the necessary number of training places for young citizens of this state, it must be allowed – that is a command of the hour – to think about alternative forms of education in the Austrian school system. I come to the end – my lamp is already on red –: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is that your farewell speech?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I thank you for the constructive, partly controversial, but ultimately again and again for a consensus-leading cooperation. It was an interesting experience, a new experience for me. I would like to thank the officials of your department, but I should also like to thank the other speakers of education and school, Mr Höchtl, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Oellinger and Mrs Schaffenrath. I believe that we have actually managed to focus on the needs of students in the discussion, even though we have not been able to achieve one or the other. Thank you very much – and that is what I mean – all those colleagues who stand in school, in the class every day and do the responsible work of preparing our students for a world that is not easy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15364	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15385	Mr President. High house! I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable Members here in the House very much. Education is the most important asset for the future. The training of our youth is the most important thing for a positive design of the future. I would like to thank the Committee on Education for its constructive work. I am particularly grateful to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Dr Höchtl. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have passed laws and agreed to the budget, a budget which has created essential conditions for further developments in school life. A few figures on this, first on the field of autonomy: In 1995, the schools had to deliver revenue to the finance ministers, and in 1999 the schools could use 200 million schilling themselves. In the past, schools had to ask for each decision, today they can be independent, both in the budget, in the areas of education and in school events. Since 1995, we have been able to use 6 billion schilling for school buildings by your consent to the budget, creating 10,000 new training places. In 1995, 10,000 schoolchildren learned English, and in 1999 there will be 90 000. In 1995, we had 154,000 pupils in the vocational schools, now we have 10 percent more. In 1995 the teaching was still often a dead end, now we have 4 600 young people preparing for the professional maturity test. And I am also pleased that 40 percent of all disabled children are now integrated into primary schools and into the AHS sub-level in 1995 - there was little integration in the AHS and in the primary school. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can be happy about what we have achieved. But we must not be satisfied. We've done a lot, but there's still a lot to do. But I would also like to thank all teachers, because they are the most important in school. If we continue to work in this spirit, there will be a good future for the school, for education in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15435	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15459	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If my colleagues have looked back in their debates or interlocutory calls, I would like to allow myself to look from the present into the future and draw up seven points for the future of education. Point one: A pluralized, differentiated society corresponds to a differentiated plural education offer. The latest example is the Bakkalaureat, which is still a current example of technical colleges, and a previous example is the professional maturity examination. In the future, it will be a matter of greater coherence. Point two: Learning is a form of self-disciplination under methodical professional guidance for the purpose of greater autonomy of people. No one can take this constructive effort seriously for someone else, and no one can give up on this effort itself. Each student has the right to promote her talents and potential investments and interests, as well as another has the right to help to compensate for various shortcomings. Third point: It is all to do that can awaken and promote learning will and enthusiasm among the students. Frontal education is just as part of adequate teaching as group work, team work on a project, competition, or presentation of a work. Fourth point: Performance motivation is the basic substance of every pedagogical effort. A transparent performance assessment is part of this. On the other hand, notes are the most adequate way. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Please, Mrs. Colleague!]] Fifth point: In the course of all curriculum modernisation, it is important to take into account, Mrs Schaffenrath, that we learn thinking at all about subject-specific thinking. That means, for example, the mathematical question is different from the historical one. Or: Disciplinarity comes before interdisciplinaryity. Sixth point: General education and training are in a new relationship with each other. One education doesn't come true without the other. The focus, however, is by no means a relinquishing of schools today. Seventh point: The progress of society is based on the progress made by science and education. There is no naïve belief in progress, but the warning of discrimination against intellectual curiosity. 7a: I do not know any Minister of Education who would have committed themselves to these principles to a higher degree than Elisabeth Gehrer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I thank her for four years of partnership with Parliament, and I wish to continue. – If I have now used the female form, I note that male persons are always meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15507	Mrs Dunst. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15528	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this legislative period, as we have already heard from the previous speakers, many positive innovations in the field of education have been decided. I would just like to list some of those who were very important to me personally: Integration, professional maturity exam, study, academy law and much more. Of course – I don't want to confirm anything at all – there is also a drops of advertising, and one where I am very close to – I will certainly be very committed to doing so in the next legislative period – concerns the introduction of an alternative form of assessment in the first and second years of school. Although an agreement with the ÖVP has already been reached, it has not finally come to pass. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This "convention" is just a rumor!]] I regret this not only as a Social Democratic, but it is difficult to argue, above all, with the people concerned, Mr Klubobmann Khol. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the best investment in the future is education, the education of our youth. When I see Mr. Chamber of Labour Piller sitting up there, I know he's my opinion. Our young democracy needs, above all, young people who can guide themselves in a complex world who are willing to take responsibility, without reservation for democracy, for our democracy, but also for the more socially weak, to address the disadvantaged of our society, but above all to be open to change. Lifelong learning is underway. And finally, what we need to teach as teachers is that we must say to our young people, we must also have backbones. Of course, all of this can only be done with a corresponding educational offer, and above all this offer must be accessible to all Austrian citizens. In this sense, of course, the present draft law is also present, and these amendments are to be seen within the framework of the agricultural and forestry training institution. The intended relief in terms of reception requirements must be adapted to existing needs and already most necessary. The opening of the access to the agricultural and forestry vocational pedagogical academy should not only be possible for graduates of professional qualifications, but also for graduates of higher secondary schools at this Academy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is, in turn, a step towards increased permeability of our education offer. As a Social Democratic, I am in favour of this development, which is certainly also necessary. I wish from this place from our Austrian schools, our students and students, but also, of course, all teachers and teachers all the best. We've done a lot of things, but many things are still waiting for us. Minister, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15564	Mr Johann Schuster came to speak. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15585	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! School policy and education policy are essential pillars of the politics of this federal government, but also essential pillars of my own party's policy, the Austrian People's Party and our Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. High house! Since this is my last speech here, allow me to take a brief look at the political work. ==References== I could not estimate how long the electorate would give me their vote here in the House on May 1983. In the meantime 16 years have passed, so 16 years I was allowed to be one of you, one of the 183 Members. During this time, ladies and gentlemen, a large number of ministers of teaching and teaching were active in this second Republic. I can name the names for a moment. It was the beginning of May 1983: Sinowatz, Zilk, Moritz, Hawlicek, Scholten, Busek and now our Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. Ladies and gentlemen! As a content of my political work, I saw the need to make it understandable and to act on it. As a representative of a Christian-Democratic party, three basic orientations were always of importance to me: first, the Christian image of human beings, second, the culture of independence and third, the culture of help. Finally, I should like to thank you very much, especially those with whom I have been able to work in committees such as the Health Committee, the Family Committee and the Teaching Committee. I am particularly grateful to the chairman and the members of these committees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no healing world. What we must be able to offer, however, is an atmosphere in which people find each other easier, an atmosphere of mutual trust, an atmosphere in which consensus is always possible, an atmosphere that enlarges the common and avoids separation. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] In conclusion, I would like to say to those who are active in the next legislative period: Form in a future where performance is asked and honoured. Form a future in which our youth is given orientation, and form a future in which the individual values his family. For whom, ladies and gentlemen, could we otherwise want a future? We are building a future in which trust, respect and mutual respect between the parties and between generations as well as between the different professional groups is possible. Those ladies and gentlemen, the political responsibility for Austria, for which citizens will also bear much political and democratic responsibility and a lot of health in the next millennium, I wish. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15643	Mr Schuster. I would also like to thank you very much on behalf of the Bureau. I've seen you here in plenary for years. They have always been an important, serious voice, but this has not been possible here in plenary because of the Rules of Procedure. In the truest sense of the word, you have a beautiful voice, which you then know, once you have heard you sing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank you very much, on behalf of the Bureau, for your parliamentary work. God give you your voice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15683	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! After much has already been said about the educational innovations of the past today, I will again confine myself to this federal law and say something on the subject of agricultural and forestry training. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In my opinion, this federal law, which is debated today and which is under way, is in this form a real and important step towards facilitating the diversity of education, even in the higher educational institutions. Significant changes, especially in the field of admission requirements, will open up access to training in the field of the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, in particular in the field of higher agricultural and forestry educational institutions. In the future, the successful completion of the fourth grade of the primary school or the polytechnic school will not be any less than the successful completion of a one-year agricultural budgetary school for girls or the successful completion of the first grade of a middle school. High house! However, I have to point out, unfortunately, an inadequacy, the still existing inequality of the graduates of the three-year school for home economics for girls. My research has shown that there is still a difference between boys and girls when attending a higher five-year agricultural and forestry school. A positive conclusion of the three-year vocational school for agriculture enables the boys to join a five-year higher agricultural and forestry school with a three-year special form. In contrast, the three-year vocational school for rural housing, i.e. for the girls, is currently not possible this particular form of shortening a subsequent five-year higher vocational school for agriculture. There is a question of the main differences between the two three-year vocational schools for boys and girls. Therefore, the Committee on Education of the next legislative period should consider whether a three-year vocational school for rural households is still in this form in a timely manner. I think that in future a uniform form of training will be offered in a three-year vocational school for agriculture for boys and girls. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, the Federal Government and the Länder are invited to look at the curriculums of the three-year vocational school for agriculture as well as those of the three-year vocational school for rural housekeeping and, where possible, to correct this disadvantage for the girls. For the sake of equal treatment, this disadvantage should be clarified and eliminated as soon as possible. More forward-looking is the school effort of the Agro-HAK, which has been offered in Imst since the last school year 1998/99. Since there are no written experiences here in the House, I would like to briefly report on this. In the first year of his existence, this school experiment still addressed 24 students from the district of Imst. But already in the coming school year 1999/2000 there are 28 new applications for the first class of the Agro-HAK. The students of the coming year are well informed about the content and training of the Agro-HAK and are already coming from the entire catchment area of the federal states of Tyrol and Vorarlberg. So this school experiment has already talked about the focus of the district boundaries from Imst in the second year of its existence. Content: In the field of vocational education, the agricultural share was still deliberately kept short in the first year. However, this will be changed after surveys among students in the coming year, and it will be offered half a day per week of agricultural education. I am pleased that this school experiment is already experiencing increasing interest in the second year of its existence and is therefore being properly continued. I think it is very positive that this diversity of education has also been opened up and made possible in the agricultural sector. This also created an additional educational opportunity for young people who are interested in agriculture, who do not necessarily have to come from an agricultural family. Mr President. High house! Finally, as a member of this House, which only came to this House at the end of April, I can wish you a nice holiday. As is common for Members of Parliament and politicians, it is likely that it is a short holiday period, but it should still be used to relax and turn it off. I would like to wish the staff of the house and especially all teachers and students from this place from relaxing summer months so that they can enter the next school year with the appropriate motivation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense a nice holiday. I'll give myself the last paragraph. Nice summer days!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15760	Mrs Fuchs is also on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15781	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As the last speaker before the debate about the end of the XX. I would like to take a brief look at the legislative period, because I can refer to the statements made by my previous speakers, who outlined the ideas of the social democratic school and education policy. I hope that in the next legislative period we will achieve substantial improvements and progress – a lot has been raised today – just as I also wish that the fairness action will soon come to a good conclusion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank the teachers, the teachers, the Federal Minister and her employees as well as the staff here in the High House and wish you all a wonderful holiday.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15821	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Since there is no final word from the rapporteur, we are entering the voting procedure and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We are now voting on the draft law in 1913. Mr Madl and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. We shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Madl and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1 of the draft law. In case of your consent, search for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall therefore immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I would ask you to give an appropriate sign in case of your consent. – This once again the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to accept the draft law at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is done again by the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. 26. Point Election of a member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15895	We're coming to the 26th. Agenda item. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, i.e. Dkfm. DDr. Friedrich König, we will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote in favour of them, but shall vote by raising them from the seats. On the other hand, is there an objection? This is not the case. That is why we are doing so. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the proposed election proposal to be approved. – This is the majority. The proposal is adopted. I note that Mr Dkfm. DDr. Friedrich König was elected to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] – I would think that this is not necessary now. Mr. Dr. König! I should like to congratulate you very much on this election from the Bureau. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ, on the Freeman and on the Green and Liberal Forums.]] 27. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1161/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol and Comrades on a federal law with which the XX. GP of the National Council is terminated prematurely (2043 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15962	==References== Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka is the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e15993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A legislative period of reforms will end with the decision that is now before us. We have managed to consolidate the budget during this legislative period. We have decided on the pension reform, and we have created a socially just tax reform. I can rightly say that these and many other laws have social-democratic content, which, last but not least, have contributed to the acceptance of these major reforms in the Austrian population with more acceptance than in any other European country. In some countries, pension reform has only just begun, for example in Germany, in other countries like France, there have been strikes and major social conflicts. We have created more justice, but we are not yet at the end of this path, and I regret that some reforms have not been completed. In an essential question, we have no longer been able to create justice in the workplace, namely, within the framework of the Fairness action, equality between workers and employees – an anachronism in the Austrian legal system. I'm sorry. We have no longer been able to achieve justice in terms of equality between women in society and the solution of a number of other problems, such as in favour of animal welfare. Steps have succeeded, but equality to the extent that it would have been desirable has not been possible in view of the political attitude of the coalition partner. Modernisation has succeeded in many areas; it has continued. In this legislative period, however, we have also put behind us the first legislative period which we have spent all the time in the European Union. We have learned to safeguard our interests and should also be aware, in this context, that solidarity does not have the task of self-employment and of the upright course. Ladies and gentlemen! Solidarity cannot and must not mean that Austria abandons its security policy position, abandons neutrality and joins NATO. Social democracy will guarantee that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to bear in mind the fact that social democracy is deeply saddened by the fact that we have not found the majority in this legislative period to achieve equality between workers and employees. [[Abg. Wabl: Put into the coalition-free room!]] But we should not only see this fairness action in this context, but also the need for fairness in the next two and a half months. Ladies and gentlemen! If I read in some newspapers the calls that the time of harmony is now over and that the time of confrontations begins, I can say that I recognize with my group that Fairneß is currently in the election campaign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen, we should not confirm every prejudice of voters to politicians. However, I would not like to conclude without thanks to those Members who have been in this House over the last four years, but who will no longer belong to him during the next legislative period. I would like to express my thanks to each of the Members of each group. They have made a significant contribution to the development of this Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP, the Freedom and Liberal Forum.]] In the case of the remaining Members, which were also included in the XXI. I would like to say goodbye to the National Council for this summer, and I hope that we will be healthy – although a little fighting – on 29 May. See you again in October. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16046	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, was also mentioned. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16068	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. I am opposed to the temptation to give an advanced election speech here, because the advanced hour and the fact that the newspapers are already printed allow some things to be said quite unattendedly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Are you otherwise caught?]] - I say, uncaptured. We now have a legislative period behind us, and in the Goethe year Goethe should be quoted: Where there's a lot of light, there's a lot of shadow. . I would like to start with self-critically where we, the coalition, have not achieved the goal. I would like to make a conscious rejection of allegations of debt, because a craziness alone does not burn, and we are all always guilty. As a Tyrolean, the state reform is really a concern to me. We didn't bring them in. Under uniform plant law – an objective that sounds very brittle but means that Austria's economic location is greatly improved because of facilitating business start-ups – we have failed. I am particularly angry by my own failure that we have not succeeded in putting an end to this double-poverty story with the Austrian intelligence services. It is unbearable for me that a leading man of the Republic – not a minister! – can say: Now they didn't make a law? - Don't worry. We do whatever is not in the law and should have been written in the law. This has been said by someone who has been working for many years to leave his own icon in this country. But it's depressing. I think it would have been good for our country if we had leaped over the shadows on both sides and had given both the State Police and the Army News Office and the Defense Office a legal corset. It would be good for our country. I regret that we did not succeed. I also regret the fact that we have made promises in the Government Declaration that we have not succeeded in implementing these promises. It is a step backwards if we have kept in the Government Declaration, we want to examine all the options for Austria's security, including accession to the Western European Union – everyone who is in the ranks of this House knows what that means – but today there is no consensus on this sentence. This is a step back, and I think you have to look at yourself. What went wrong? Is this the basic form of the government, or is this, as it were, an occupational accident? There's a time for everything, says the book Kohelet. I have now been self-critical about a few things in which I, as a representative of one of the two government parties, also take a stand on my own, because we have not achieved the goal. But there's also a time when you say other things. I have made the effort and have read what the club presidents of our competition parties, Mr. Haider, Mrs Petrovic and Mrs Schmidt, have said on the occasion of the government declaration by the government of Vranitzky – that is part of our legislative period – and also the government climate – that is part of our legislative period. I must say in all my grief about my own failure: As good as they believed we were not, we have already been! We have done much more than you, Mrs Schmidt, have entrusted us. Mrs Petrovic shines by absence, Mr Haider is in Carinthia. But what the opposition parties have predicted us – we would not achieve that, and we would not achieve that, and these are good intentions – has not occurred. Ladies and gentlemen! A few years ago, there was an Italian book called "L'Austria é un paese ordinata" – Austria is a good country. Ladies and gentlemen! This coalition has taken account of this book. Austria is an ordinary country, and we have ruled well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now, of course, preselection sounds are coming in. No one resists this temptation, because on 3 May 1885, no one resists it. October the Sovereign of this country, the people, decides. We all know very well: No one knows how our employer decides. Nobody! The cards are remixed. Everyone's nervous, and everyone wants to secure their chances. This is legitimate, and therefore it is legitimate that we should of course make elections now. Nevertheless, in this late hour, the time must be to say: Actually, this National Council, in which the opposition has a function – a positive function – in which the government has a function and in which all of us sitting here, with honest efforts for this country, have a success. Success is the undivided success of this whole house. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have carried out a very painful renovation of our state budget in the fire of criticism. It wasn't easy for anyone. Trust me! It was not easy for the Social Democrats in many areas, it was not easy for us Christian Democrats in many areas. Above all, there was common responsibility. We had to create the criteria for economic and monetary union. We had to create the criteria for playing in the first league in Europe. We play with us, and we are the third best country on this continent. We can be proud of that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest challenge of these last four years was certainly the question of work for our fellow citizens. Every group in this House knows that the right to work today is decisive in our society and decides on the chances of life of every citizen and of every fellow citizen. We have different recipes, but the honest effort that we want to bring as many Austrians as possible to work so that they can be human beings so that they can realize themselves, I do not disapprove of anyone in this House. We were overall in the contradiction of ideas – as the English would say – basically successful, we were really successful. There have never been so many employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also speak here as a trade unionist. I am a Christian trade unionist, and I am also for the equality of workers and appointments. Yes, I am! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP. - Bravo! call at the SPÖ.]] But there is a law of movement in this country, which is social security, and I am not prepared to vote against one of the social partners here in this House. I'm not ready to vote over the union! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] You won't hear from me. I am also not prepared to vote over the farmers, and I am not prepared to vote over the economy. I ask Mrs Hostasch to try to bring about this consensus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I told you earlier, on 3 October. October the cards are remixed, and there can be many constellations. I do not want to see the union overly agreed – I am, as I have said, trade unionists – and I also do not want to see the other social partners overly agreeable. The sentence shall apply: Be the beginnings! Ladies and gentlemen! We have not only worked excellently, and we have all worked together to bring as many Austrians into work as possible, but we have also done a veritable export miracle. We have had double-digit export increases in the last four years each year. That is to say, the talented and diligent Austrians, the entrepreneurs have carried the quality work that Austria has grown into the whole world. We have created hundreds of thousands of new jobs. For us, globalisation is an opportunity – and not a trap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly proud of how we have developed our social system in the last four years. I'm just mentioning a few examples. I think, for example, that it is a social big deal that we have brought the minor workers into social security. It is really great that we have done this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are people who are on the lower scale of the lucky leaders in this country. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: These are primarily women!]] That's primarily – Mrs Schaffenrath, you're only right! – Women – you are often right, Mrs Schaffenrath, excuse me, I do not want to polemise here – these are very often women who would not otherwise have their own social security claims. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Thank you!]] This is – this is a big social issue in this country, which is much too little debated – about those married women without their own social security claims, which may exist without self-employed pension schemes. The low employment rate now allows more and more women to acquire independent social security claims. Our aim must be to ensure that there is no longer anyone in this country who does not have his own social security claims! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[One of Abg's. Axle previously distributed red wine bottles crashed from the table of Abg. Scheibner and exploded with loud bang on the stone floor.]] [[A member of the Parliamentary Directorate removes the splitters.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We created new self-employed people and thus created new entrepreneurs at great risk – the work contract regime was very, very controversial and was in the fire of criticism – new jobs, new opportunities for life, new business drivers, new entrepreneurs and so many business start-ups as never before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't want to underestimate one thing either: Contrary to all opposition – and I would like to thank Mrs Hostasch – we have managed to compensate for an injustice that has been tolerated with us for many years, namely the fact that farmers could not previously be insured under the same conditions as all other citizens. I am particularly grateful to Mr Karl Donabauer for this. In this legislative period, we have succeeded in achieving justice for farmers and their families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Enough of the beautiful words. I started to fail and quit what went well. My predecessor, Klubobmann Kostelka, spoke of the confrontation. That's where I want to quote Kohelet again: "There's a time for everything." As long as we are in a coalition, there is a time for joint work and common problem solutions. This is not a time of confrontation! But at the moment when we stand before the people, before the judges of value in this country, before those who give the prize and say, I decide for this vision or for the other, at this moment the ideas must be faced in a sharp way in space – without personal insult, without the accusation of lubrication comedy and similar personal engagements. But the ideas must then be confronted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens in our country need to know where to go. And it is our task – this is a task for all parties – to put clearly on the table where the way goes, what we stand for, what we want to do in the next legislative period. The vote will then be taken and the government decision will then be taken. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. Today, a large parliamentarian, Alois Mock, will give his final speech. He was here in Parliament for 29 years. Like friend Franz Löschnak, he was a parliamentarian with skin and hair. He too will give his last speech today. We were often of different opinion with Löschnak, we have negotiated hard, for example in the right to tender, as I can remember. He was the State Secretary in the coordination. He was always a tough social democrat – and that's why I appreciated him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Alois Mock has acquired the function of a statesman in this Republic. It is like Löschnak part of the identity of our Republic. We owe him a lot! From the point of view of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to express my thanks to the fatherland to these two parliamentarians, the S & D Löschnak and our Christian Democrat Alois Mock! They have both led Austria to stand today as it is: a well-ordered country with quality of life, with social justice, a country in which people can live in which people can be happy, and a country in which it is beautiful to be Austrian and Austrian!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16256	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is also speaking. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am sad that Mr Khol's speech has not been supported by Mr Ach's red wine, but I am sorry to have to hurt it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Freeman and the SPÖ]] Mr. Khol, you said Austria is an ordinary country. Of course, I'm right: We can be proud of our Austria and of the achievements of the population in this country, even in the last four years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The question is: Is Austria an ordinary country because of the work of this coalition or despite the work of this coalition? – I would not answer that very clearly, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals:Last!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because of the work of the coalition!]] They did not take place quite four years ago with a coalition agreement between the Social Democratic Party and the Austrian People's Party, which is quite nice to read. It contains a number of measures that have been taken. We didn't have to make the effort to go through every single point. Media has also analyzed your work. And this balance sheet shows that you could only implement one third of the projects you had written into your coalition agreement. That's not a miracle either. In the last four days, we have criticized or discussed this congestion of laws, of initiatives that we have now had to accommodate. But let us remember the last three and a half years! What have Parliament's meetings usually looked like, especially in the half-year when Austria held the Presidency in the European Union? . We had also used agendas with reports, statements by Federal Ministers, with resolutions, but it was not one of the spare days that we had made in the pre-planning, because simply no legislative initiatives were taken, because you either did not agree, no time or did not have the opportunity to implement those reforms that you had made yourself – 13 years ago, five years ago, four years ago – here in Parliament and to implement them accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not just about the major problems, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. They could not agree on the smaller but important issues, such as the fight against undeclared work or the abolition of the drinking tax a few days ago. There is no need to wonder that we have also completely missed the great guidelines for the future. This is what I mean by guidelines on such questions as: What is Austria supposed to say in the next millennium? What answers do we give to the important questions of the future? What is it like to create jobs with the real creation of secure jobs? This means that I don't mean "parking" anywhere in courses or trainings – apart from the apprentices – as we have discussed it now. Or: What is it like with a functioning economy, with an economic boost, with which we are creating a turnaround? – In contrast to what we have to criticize today, we have a record insolvency in 1999. Or: What about the real guarantee of pensions, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP? Of course, you have taken action. You have raised contributions, you have shortened pensions, but a system that really guarantees pensions for the next generations, you have not even discussed this here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the free-salts.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No contribution increases!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is it like with a tax reform that really leaves more money for citizens, which can also be converted into purchasing power? This would, in turn, promote the economy, create jobs and reduce public expenditure. This would have been a positive cycle, which would have been worth discussing here too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What about security? Mr Khol mentioned it, he said that an important project was the option report, the response of Austria to the changed security environment. He is right, Mr Khol. That would be a very important task: How can we be sure that in the future Austria will no longer have to be afraid if conflicts occur in our environment, that we will also place clear orders on our national defence and consider how we can support the development of a functioning European security system? – They have pushed them long ahead, and in the end this important question has failed. But you've also done one thing: They kept up two savings packages for the Austrians. You have thus financed your experiments in the European Union, namely membership and ultimately the euro, and you have achieved that, in recent statistics by the Ministry of Social Affairs itself, 1.1 million Austrians live at the poverty line, and above all children's-rich families are affected. We have often discussed it here and often, but unfortunately it was not possible to put in place measures specifically for the families who would have been able to make improvements in this important area. The liberals have always tried to show alternatives, such as the childcare check, the system of fair taxes and the three-pillar model for pensions. Mr Kostelka! As far as equality between workers and employees is concerned, you have said that you have not found a majority in this House. – I ask you: Has You're looking for this majority? You see in this Parliament a two-class society: One is the members of the government parties, and in this circle you are looking for the majority. But if you do not find this majority with you and the coalition partner, there is no majority in this House for you – even if it was actually present. I'll tell you: For this question of equality between workers and employees, there would have been a clear majority in this House, but you have not been looking for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Khol, this also applies to you. If you say that you did not find a majority for the option report, I must tell you that you did not look for it, because there would have been a clear majority in this House for the option report too. If every vote, every mandate, every Member of Parliament had been considered equivalent, as equivalent representatives of voters, the population, then there would have been a majority for these important initiatives. But you've neutralized each other. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is no wonder that the overall view of politics is not the best because the people do not want to see a dispute between government parties and do not want to know why solutions to problems have not been achieved, but the people demand clear solutions, clear answers to their questions, clear solutions to problems and clear solutions to the future. It has not been a coincidence – and this should give us all of us today – that a recent youth report has shown that it is very bad about the reputation of politicians and politics and that the interest in politics is in the last place. This should be an example of our future work. We should also consider how we see ourselves as parliamentarians. We have made an oath to the Austrian federal constitution. After that, the National Council has the task of acting as a legislator, but also as a regulator towards the government and being here the representative of the people. The Austrian National Council has passed almost 600 laws during this legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: How many of these 600 laws have really been made here in this Parliament too? How many have not only been decided here, but have they actually been created here? - I don't think it's the only one! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How was it ordered about control? How many committees of inquiry have there been, Mr Khol, how many real possibilities have there been for control between Parliament and government? – There has been no committee of inquiry! The Austrian Parliament, through the two-thirds majority, and also through the self-understanding of representatives of the government parties, has in fact become a purely voting house, a majority for initiatives presented to the House by the government, social partners or other institutions. We should finally come to say: We are the representatives of the people, we have the task of making the laws here and controlling the government which is not directly democratically legitimised, and also of giving it the rules for the future. We should also take the instruments of direct democracy more seriously than they have been in the past. Here is no place for alibiactions, but here we have the responsibility to take real account of an opinion, a request by the people in the form of petitions, popular desire et cetera! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it would be important to create a new policy in this country – a policy that is no longer so important to itself and in which politicians and, above all, the political parties are no longer so important, but in which politicians are clear that they are servants of the people that the people have given them a mandate to fulfil. It should also be clear to them that it is a matter of creating guidelines for the future that it is a matter of finding majority voting here in this Parliament, regardless of government constitutions, and that it is a matter of giving together positive accents and positive answers to the questions of the population. I hope that the next National Council elections will not win those who have the most expensive and best packaging, but those who will present the best topics and content. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the next government, as always, will not have a two-thirds majority! The two-thirds majority – 500 constitutional laws and constitutional provisions have been passed here in the last ten years – especially the two-thirds majority of a government is a blow to the face of a rule of law, a blow to the face of the control of our federal constitution!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16442	Klubobfrau Dr. Heide Schmidt is now speaking. The remaining time of your club is 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16463	Mr President. High house! I would like to thank all Members of Parliament for their support, for their work and for their work. I would also like to thank the House's colleagues, with whom constructive, fair and committed cooperation was possible, and that was a lot. Thank you, and all right! All the good also to those who will not be there anymore! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, as well as on representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] But my balance sheet looks different, and this will not surprise colleagues Khol or colleagues Kostelka. If you have read how our expectations were, and think you'd surpassed them, I think you have a very selective perception. However, that is legitimate. If I recall that in 1995 the main reason for the early resolution of the National Council was that it was thought that one must first and foremost save expenditure on the one hand, that one must get a tax reform and a budget with which expenditure is saved – you are right to nod, because that was the main argument of the EIAP – then I must say that the outcome of this announcement did not at least match. A savings package – the 1996 savings package – has come with a financing of more than two thirds on the revenue side and, if it goes well, a third through expenditure savings. This is not even an oppositional view, but this assessment is now objective. Not only did you not make any structural reform at the time, but you have already started wrong adjustments with this savings package. Contrary to the Government Declaration, which stated as a promise that the tax and tax rate will tend to fall, it alone has increased by about 1 percent with the savings package. You have not only made wrong choices in this area, but you have also reduced social benefits. One of the serious wrong choices is constantly accompanying us, that is, as far as women and mothers are concerned as single parents. Only the ÖVP is written in the main book that it carries out its ideology on the back of the children. It is not the right of the mother or the father to have a child's leave, but it is a child's right to care through a parent. – This was one of your many wrong choices that you made in connection with the 1996 savings package. But you have made further announcements – I have only 7 minutes available and can therefore only take a few out – you have promised us to do something, and nothing of it has happened or sometimes only minor, but sometimes the opposite. If the government declaration – and you have made this a priority in the statement – says that small and medium-sized enterprises have to be relieved of unnecessary obstacles, if there is a further need for trade regulations to be a particularly important concern – the trade regulation is still a rule of law today, it is a job prevention instrument, and this is contrary to your announcement in the government declaration – and if you now want to say that you have made a novel, then no one can take it seriously, because that was just a novel. I must say that you said that the bureaucracy would be reduced: I see far and wide nothing but your campaign, which you are now making for expensive money as an advertising campaign. But ask the small and medium-sized enterprises what they really expect! A small example of this would be to free them from the burden of the multitude of tests they have to carry out. It's between four and six. By the way, the drinking tax audit is one of the numerous audits, plus VAT audit, wage tax audit, auditing and cetera. All these things are to be simplified! Yes, you ordered a study sometime last year to see if there might be a concentration. But after this study, nothing came. They have commissioned them, but they have not taken any consequence from them. The liberal response would be a central checkpoint, the liberal answer would be a central collection point. None of it! In your government statement, you have announced that you will reduce additional labour costs and simplify and eco-ecologise the tax system in the event of a tax reform. – None of this has been done in this second tax reform. The opposite is the case! What has been announced as a simplification or as a reduction or initiatives for access aid has counterproductive effect, because it is only a certain part, and this only for a short time. The liberal answer for this is not only to be read in our tax concept and in our concept of basic security. Our tax concept contains a real reduction in tariffs and not just an approximation of tariffs, which does not even concern cold tax progress, and it also contains changes to basic security. I am very proud that we have a theme leadership here, because this is the liberal response to the changed conditions of the working world, to the changed conditions which require social security to exist regardless of employment. – Nothing in this direction I heard from you. Or the announcement in the Government Declaration to focus transfers on those they really need. . The liberal response offers the request for transfers to be made on an income-dependent basis in Parliament. They did not deal with this or reject it. Their announcements on gender equality policy as regards women: None of this has been implemented! We've had a special meeting with it. You have not even achieved the goal in the Constitution. The unemployment rates of women are rising steadily, as you know, while the men remain partly constant. The income sheath continues to open. The return to work is becoming increasingly difficult for women rather than for them to improve. The liberal response to this is a commitment to an active equality policy in the Constitution, the liberal response is equal pay for equal work – we have also set out the conditions for this with requests; then we discuss them – are independent rights instead of derived rights. [[Inter-call]] I do not want to speak now of what you have announced and what hurts me, because it is serious wrong choices, namely the hallucination of fundamental rights. They believe that in this way they can limit crime or stop crime. I believe that it was the most important changes in the legislative period which expired, which led to the wrong direction, namely to the direction of a police state. I'm remembering noise attack and grid arrest. Their thinking, education and training of the executives has not been able to prevent a person from dying for the first time in this Second Republic in police custody. All taken together: If something is to go further on with regard to red tape, if something is to go further on with regard to equality policy, if something is to go further, to ensure fundamental rights and not to abolish them, I also believe that the two-thirds majority must be broken. I think it would be good for Austria, and it would be good for Parliament and the quality of the laws. We will make every effort to do so. - Lovely summer!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16568	Mr Wabl has also been mentioned on the floor. The remaining time of your club is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16590	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that this House is now temporarily disappearing. Those nice, kind words! [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oh, my God!]] Mr Khol even renounces an election speech and praises the S & D Löschnak. [[Call at ÖVP: Just at the beginning!]] Mr Neisser finds some kind sentence for each of the Members who give a say-out speech. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also my club was so nice and said: Wabl, it's the club people's round, but today, the last time, you can talk! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] You feel it's something special: The voters are called again. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Something's going wrong with the greens!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to take on the task of presenting the Greens' foreign policy perspective, which Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander has done here in detail. I will not be able to improve the disability and health policies of Mrs Haidlmayr, nor the economic and financial policies of Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Nowotny: He can do better!]] The women's policy of my club Petrovic – I can't do that well, although I would have approaches to a good women's politician! [[Cheerfulness and demonstrative applause with female SPÖ delegates.]] I would not even try to adopt Mrs Stoisits' human rights policy. She has done well herself, both in this house and elsewhere. I'm not getting involved anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What did she do?]] And the wild fighter for social justice Ollinger, who learned a lot from the Social Democrats from earlier days – now it is difficult to learn something from the Social Democrats – I do not want to take away anything from it. It may be that a few approaches are better presented by me, but I do not want to try that at all. Mrs Gabi Moser is not here. It has tried a transport policy; only this is always difficult for women who are not as aggressive as men often do. Ladies and gentlemen! I've... [[Call the Greens:Langthaler!]] I forgot Langthaler, and I'll tell you why: She's coming to the end. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only tell you that, of course, I will also try, like Mr Neisser, to find a few nice words in the direction of my colleagues. One thing immediately comes to my mind – I say this now with a certain admiration – that is, Mrs Moser-Starrach, who always manages to give a speech in such flat, levelless, empty debates, which I think I am talking about: There's another whole world, and I'm glad about that. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: There are many worlds!]] [[Rejoicing]] I'll tell you, I'm very happy about that. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's essential what you're saying!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That was not ironic, and I also call you the reason. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is cynical!]] Mrs Mertel, this is not cynical. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's more than cynical! Necessary!]] When it arrived that way, it was a talking mistake. But I'm not perfect. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's right! But this insight is coming late!]] To colleague Arbitrator: In addition to his brilliant foreign policy speeches and his social democratic commitment, he always reminds me that besides this political world there are other beautiful things – with all the fibers of his existence. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You can see that too!]] I could now tell a lot about Mrs. Schmidt, about Mr. Cap, also lovely things about Mr. Maitz, about Petrovic, Neisser, Schwarzenberger, of course - I would like to think of this. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: distributed censorships!]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] But if I exaggerate with the nice things, it may happen to me that in the next days and weeks I may have withdrawals. That is why I have now moved to the ugly sides of this house. Who, of course, thinks of it? [[Abg. Axle: Wabl!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That I sometimes think I'm allowed to do so. – No, of course Mr. Khol, Mr. Khol, with his stupid "h"! Ladies and gentlemen! I see, Mr Khol does not think this is funny. [[Abg. Nürnberger: This is also the last!]] I don't think it would be good if I continued these ugly things. I am now telling you quite openly: I keep them all for me, Mr. Kukacka! Mr. Swimper, I keep them for me, take them with me, and I'll forget them. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's essential!]] Mrs. Mertel, I'm just gonna forget her. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if I'm gonna write a book because there's this bad saying: Beware of those who write only a book! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fischer said yesterday at a small reception that the Greens had given to their divorced Members: Mr Wabl has often hit the target. - I'll give him all the right. But, of course, I've always focused on your hearts and on your brains. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What?]] If I saw you like that in front of me, I couldn't help but shoot over. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this last speech, it is particularly difficult to find the right words. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: It overpowered him!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:It's embarrassing!]] That's why I lay down briefly in the afternoon and thought, maybe this saying also applies to me once: There is the Lord in his sleep. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I woke up then... [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder: Speak...!]] [[Further calls.]] I then woke up, Mr Brauneder, and I had a terrible fear: I've been pissed by the chole at the "chef", so he didn't let me sleep. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! I see, some of my passages are misunderstood. Ms. Ridi Steibl from Styria shakes her head. I think one last speech must simply be conciliatory. Mrs Steibl, I have rarely said anything bad about you – and do not say anything bad now. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] But for one thing I really want you, ladies and gentlemen! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I will soon again be part of the people, the Sovereign, ladies and gentlemen – and you are only his representative! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Who are you giving your voice to?]] I would like to say the following: You're gonna be so damn hard here in this house when I'm not here anymore...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16966	Mr Wabl, I find it as difficult as never before, but I ask for the last sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e16995	Oh! I was just about to finish my last sentence! – So: You're gonna be so damn hard on this house in your work, because you're gonna have to represent me in the future, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17032	The next speaker was Mr Löschnak. Please, Mr Löschnak.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17053	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Novotny had some effort yesterday to explain where he should put his farewell words, which agenda item would be appropriate and where he would have a suitable platform for that. . I have a little easier, because my clubman told me that I am at this request for the end of the XX. As a further speaker of my group, the legislative period could work. This is, of course, a good point of reference for the fact that, as you have already heard it several times today, either it is balanced – from the point of view of the opposition, of course, it is not good, from the point of view of the rulers, for a lot better, though it has existed today, but also to charge guilt on itself – or that this is used as a good reason to say goodbye to politics. I would like to do both, ladies and gentlemen, but without using the remaining speaking time available to my club – 31 minutes. I will try to bring this to your attention in really few sentences. On the one hand: The balance sheet we have at the end of this XX. To bring GP together is a balance sheet that can be seen. Although not everything was successful, many things were successful. It's some of what you can do at the beginning of this XX. GP failed. That is undoubtedly also to be noted. We do not distinguish ourselves from those who are fully alive and who also have to acknowledge this when they are balancing one evening, perhaps on a New Year’s Eve. But, ladies and gentlemen, the balance sheet of the XX. GP is a balance sheet that has to lead us to the result – since I have to extend Mr Klubobmann Khol's statements a little bit – that it is not only a good country in which we live but also a beautiful and worth living country. I am proud to be citizens of this country! [[General condolences.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have decided not to run for the next legislative period, so leave politics after 22 years. I do not want to go out of this House without a wish, but I have been working in this House for 22 years: starting as a State Secretary under Bruno Kreisky and Fred Sinowatz, continuing as Chancellor under Fred Sinowatz and then as Minister of Health and Minister of the Interior under Franz Vrannitzky. All the functions I was allowed to perform were functions that, of course, brought difficulties. There were problems again and again, and it was daily to solve problems. The most difficult time for me was the time as Minister of the Interior, because I exercised this function at a time when a turn in Europe had occurred through the opening of the East and the fall of the Wall. We – with this I mean my employees and myself – really had all our hands full to do, to recognize and solve the new problems every day and every hour. One of the biggest problems at the time of 1989/90 was certainly the question of migration. At the time, we tried to counteract appropriate measures, measures which I always acknowledged were not optimal and not flawless. But that's where I wonder: What's optimal? And that's what I'm asking: Who's wrong? We have at least made the attempt. It was not as bad a result as it may have appeared sometime, because otherwise some countries in Europe would not have adopted these regulations in the future. – This is a point I would like to make here and today. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have made it my obligation, if I have been excluded from a function, to give my successor – that could have been a successor – only no advice, because I think this is almost inappropriate. I have really tried to keep that up, and I admit that I have become weak once or twice. But again the question is allowed: Who doesn't get weak at least once? – I have become weak once or twice, but may I be forgiven. That is why I do not see myself here and today in a position to give Parliament, after a total of six years of parliamentary membership, perhaps even advice; I would simply not trust that. In any case, I link this exodus with the desire of a person who has spent more than half of his working life in politics. My "Company" was the "Company" Republic of Austria, and if you celebrate almost a 25-year anniversary, you can wish for something. So I would like to conclude by those who will further determine the skills in our country that they may fulfill one or two hopes. The first hope I am addressing is that the path of co-operation – whether you call it "social partnership" or otherwise – will continue, which is a trademark of the Second Republic. The second wish I have is that the ability to compromise, which was also a trademark of this Second Republic, and is – this ability includes a common political responsibility – may persist. Finally, I would like to express my wish and hope that the neutral position of Austria in the world – which does not mean indifference, but represents a critical participation in the consciousness of its own identity – will not be abandoned without a peace-making security, also – I say quite consciously, one does not like to hear it – if it costs something. [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I should like to end by putting these three hopes on the table here and today. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank all my employees in all the ministries in which, as I said, I have been allowed to participate since 1977. I thank the staff in the clubs, especially in my own club, and here in Parliament. I would like to thank the parliamentarians who have been involved in the committees in which I too was allowed to participate: the Health Committee, the Constitutional Committee and, lastly, the Committee on the Interior. They were particularly difficult because they had to carry some of the load with me. I finally thank my family for having had to endure with me for 22 years. To a great extent, I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for I have never felt as much attention in a speech as today. – Thank you very much and a warm congratulation!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17155	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. The rest of his group's speaking time is 8 minutes. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Mr President, would you please stop me for 7 minutes?]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17190	Mr President. High house! I start my last speech in this House as I spent four-fifths of my time here, working and being used to it, namely as a member of the opposition. I begin by saying to you about the majority parties: Life is always very fair. I mean the fact that at the end of this legislative period, just a few weeks before the next National Council elections, all those things are so open and so balled that are symptomatic for the so-called great coalition. I will list four symptoms of the great coalition in this country and will support each of these four points with a sample example – of course in the short term. First: Sympathetic for the great coalition are proporz and post chess. This is how the recent ambassadors are doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Müller.]] Second symptom: political felt and artistic economy. That's what happens around Euroteam. Third Simptom: Abuse of tax money – just in the election year, with your government propaganda business, you even warn an advertising scientist of a "co-productive overkill". Fourth symptom: Lack of efficiency in matters – to identify with your apprentice offensive. Or do you believe that it is really efficient to spend 3 billion schillings to create 3 100 additional apprenticeships? Ladies and gentlemen! As a liberal opposition politician, I can only thank you for this: You would have better guidance to the voters for the decision on 3 March. October can not be put on the road. High house! This is, as already mentioned, my last speech here in the Austrian Parliament after almost 20 years. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yes, yes! I was never on the applause of the two majority groups! Not! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I was never looking forward to it, ladies and gentlemen, but I know – and your reaction shows me that – it's just generally expected that at least at the end of the day something like that might be said, isn't it? - I know! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's why I can't let you down. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Something reasonable!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: A little less embarrassing!]] I therefore agree with what I would like to say in three requests, which naturally address the two majority groups here in this House: First: Please understand and accept – and I have just noticed that this request is necessary and does not come from about – not only in theory, but also in practice, that the task of every parliamentary opposition is consistent control, the display of weaknesses and errors! This is the only way to dry "aure meadows and swamps" through control and display, as once an Austrian Federal President has formulated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, Please understand and accept that the parliamentary opposition needs the appropriate parliamentary possibilities to carry out these tasks, as specified by the Constitution, which can ultimately be carried out not only then and there and as long as the majority of this House is pleased! They must be Masochists if they constantly allow this instrument – and grow beyond themselves. Thirdly, Please understand and accept that the freedom of opposition in the exercise of this control function is hard to attack and formulated! Please understand! If we were not to formulate and attack hard, we would not at all be heard in a country in which the great coalition – a world-wide unicum in its long-term institution – extends not only to Parliament itself but to large parts of the overall state, let alone seriously! [[Abg. Gaál: This is the constituency!]] We want, ladies and gentlemen, not to destroy, but quite the contrary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] No, Mrs Colleague, no, of course not! We do not want to destroy it, but – quite the contrary! – Something alive: practised democracy as she provides for the Constitution, Mrs. Fuchs! [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fox]] Of course! We therefore want to preserve the interplay between legislative and executive required by the Constitution! Therefore, Mr Khol, we are not outside the "Constitutional Arch" as you once said, but quite the opposite: We stand because we take this task seriously, in the center! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whoever is on the verge, I don't want to discuss here and today. High house! In this sense: Even if I, as you can see, excite here – even sober: disillusioned and sober I excite! – the fire of the parliamentarian in me is not completely extinguished, as you have just found; even if you have no pleasure in doing so. [[Call the SPÖ: Quick!]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] That is why, because I am still a convinced and enthusiastic parliamentarian, I wish you all – and that is just as honest and serious, as I meant the other thing that you did not like – especially our second President of the National Council – because, on the occasion of his departure from his club, he was not mentioned by any single word – all good, but, of course, of course, to the Austrian Parliament! - Thank you. [[Discouragement of the liberties]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17332	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. The speaking time is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17353	Ladies and gentlemen! So far, it has been Usance that the National Council is at 15. It will be called again to the ordinary meeting on September, and it has also been Usance to propose this. Now, in your motion for a resolution, you have the 23. It is planned for September. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept this request, because if it were your request, then the opposition would have no chance of acting in parliamentary terms at all. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Oh yes, in the next...!]] Today, in particular, Mr Khol, Mr President, has said that despite the election campaign, it is necessary to preserve the forms and to pay attention to proper handling. I do not think you should set a deadline here in view of the election campaign, which has not yet been given. That is why we ask you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17423	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. The remaining speaking time of your group is 8 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17444	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If today the XX. The legislative period is ended, so is the actually parliamentary routine. But this also reminds us that each of us, that we are all elected or ordered only for time, and at that time we have to work for the Republic. I would like to use the place where Mr Löschnak referred to the subject of speaking ability. One of the great achievements of Austria after the Second World War is the ability to talk between different parties, different social groups. We should definitely keep them – at no cost what it wants. It is necessary for our political culture. Although, of course, criticism of the social partners and also of the parties is rightly expressed: We need this ability to talk! It has led to a high degree of Austria becoming a small economic wonderland that has become a social model for many. This is not a question of higher intellectual talent, but we have not playedfully what we have worked out before by strikes and similar. Let us keep this culture, let us pass it on – we are much admired in Europe too! I think that's quite, very important. We should remember even now that the weeks are coming, even after the 3rd century. In October, there was a need to re-exercise dialogue. We have to get them! ==References== October must all be able to talk again! If the electorate has sent to this House, he has the right to be involved in the ability to talk, and we must pay particular attention to that. No one who gets the voter's support, the voter's trust, can be excluded. - No matter what happens: We have to try that after the 3rd century. to make possible October. This is also something we can give Europe: In the trade unions we are admired because there is this contact. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those who have helped me to solve some problems externally. I was able to contribute to our coming to the European Union. I am grateful to all those who went along with it. In particular, some of the opposition parties have proved to be true to their party and yet, in this matter, they clearly believe that we need to give priority to some Europe, to a peaceful Europe. I am grateful to those who have worked to safeguard the survival opportunities of the South Tyrol people and the South Tyrol package. [[General condolences.]] I am also grateful to those who have contributed to the fact that we have received the largest UN conference on human rights in Vienna and voted against the genocide in Bosnia as the only Western country. [[New general appeal.]] The concern of human rights must remain a central concern of our foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen. I thank all those who supported me when it came to giving hope through our policy to the people who wanted freedom as we had, how they did not have it in the old Yugoslavia – there they sought democracy, independence, equality in international space. This, too, was in the best sense, even if there were sometimes different opinions on it in some cases. [[General condolences.]] I am grateful, ladies and gentlemen, to all those in all the parties who have also shown me the willingness to talk. I do not know a party in which I would not have an interlocutor, in which I am convinced that, even if they argue differently, they are enraged by the best will for the Republic. We must maintain this faith as the humus for future credible democracy. I would like to add that I am also grateful to all those who have helped me as an official. Without these people, we could not have solved the EU accession problem the way we solved it could not have solved the human rights conference, we could not have solved many other things. I am grateful to the Austrian officials – an expression that is often used with the wrong accent. They have a high priority, and some in politics can only be made because they bring in this knowledge and experience. [[General condolences.]] I became mayor of a small community, I also became teaching ministers. I'm glad that I was then on 1st. On 1 August 1969 the large school reform commission was convened, which also dealt with the question of foreign language teaching in the school reform. At that time there were the first discussions, and I was also criticized because I was in English and French for teaching foreign languages. However, the mother tongue must be able to hold on, we must not forget that if we communicate foreign languages. I am grateful for the fact that Mrs Gehrer is now putting many school attempts into school reality in this area. We need them in Europe. I appeal to the young people to learn foreign languages. This is not only of benefit to the profession, it is also an advantage in cultural terms: Whoever knows the language of another country also knows the soul of another people. [[General condolences.]] In this way, ladies and gentlemen, school politics and family policy, give the great importance and importance they have! Family and school are the starting positions for life, and often the social position in life and the qualifications depend on the starting position in the family and in the school. [[General condolences.]] I thank all those who have often failed to exploit difficulties or mistakes that have been made. I thank you for the generous treatment I was given. I might call many, but I'm not a censor, who's now rated "good" or "less good". I'm here to thank you. I'm going as an optimist from this high house. I am leaving the House, but not yet from politics – this may be a little disappointment for some. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] As the optimist when I go, my Ladies and gentlemen, I was very impressed by today's statements of the Vorarlberger FPÖ-Deputy Nußbaumer. I had reason to stay optimistic. I came as an optimist, and I remain optimist. It is nice to work for this republic, even if there are difficulties when you occasionally fall down, hurt yourself, pay a certain price for it: If one has so many friends, it is borne by one's own political community, as it has happened to me, if one has so much support, if one goes through life in private too two, then it is easier to carry those things that are sometimes the unpleasant sides of politics. Live our Republic, our country Austria in a new, strong Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17582	Thank you, Mr. Mock. I will have the opportunity, if we have put all the business regulations behind us, to refer once again to you as your long-term clubman colleagues, as I may refer to Mr Dr. Khol and Mr. Dr. Kostelka again on request. This debate is now closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 204 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This was unanimously decided at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading show this. I note that the draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 204 of the Supplements concerning the convening of the regular meeting in 1999/2000. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. (E 212.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mrs Partik-Pablé as a request from Krüger concerning the convening of this meeting by 15. September 1999. . I note that in my opinion the Croquis has a mistake here because we should have voted in favour of the amendment. I now leave the request Dr. Krüger, tabled by Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, on convening the meeting with 15. To vote as an amended request on September 1999. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority, so it remains in the previous decision. Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17654	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mrs Oellinger, Dr Kier and Mr Mag. The main focus is on setting up a committee of inquiry on the German Federal Government's apprenticeship line and on the "Euroteam Group". This application was distributed in writing. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17706	The debate was not called for. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request for an investigation committee, such as Mr Öllinger, Mr Kier and Mr Mag. The main application was made. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Next, we shall proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stoisits and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. This request has also been distributed in writing. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17788	The debate has not been requested. We shall therefore vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request for the Committee of Inquiry to set up a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Request for a permanent declaration from a committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17825	There is a request from Mr Dr Kier, the Committee on the Interior Affairs, on the report of the Minister for the Interior on the resolution of the National Council E 177-NR/XX.GP of 10. May 1999 on the consequences of the tragic death of Marcus O. (III-199 of the Supplements) according to § 46 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure by means of a so-called "permanent declaration" to continue the work during the part-session-free period. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a permanent declaration from the Committee on the Interior. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Decision to terminate the 1998/99 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17855	In agreement with all the groups of the House, I would like to make the following request: "The President of the Federal Republic is asked to attend the ordinary 1998/99 meeting of the XX. legislative period at the end of 182. To end the meeting of the National Council." I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously decided. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17888	I can still say that at today's sitting the motion for a resolution 1183/A has been tabled and requests have been made. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17910	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda item 27 and the end of the ordinary session so that these parts of the minutes are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable the immediate implementation of the decisions taken by the National Council. This part is as follows: Agenda item 27 is the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Kostelka, Khol application concerning the early termination of the legislative period. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 27/1). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, will be adopted unanimously in the course of the vote in 204 of the Supplements. The resolution annexed to the Committee's report (2043 of the Supplements) was adopted by a majority vote. Another motion for a resolution (Annex 27/1) is rejected. The President, in agreement with the political groups, made the following request: "The President of the Federal Republic is asked to attend the ordinary 1998/99 meeting of the XX. legislative period at the end of 182. To end the meeting of the National Council." . This request shall be adopted unanimously. To the extent that part of the Official Protocol is relevant to the proposed procedure. Are there any objections against the content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This is considered to be approved. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this legislative period, you elected a bureau consisting of three persons. We were sitting out here together after our election. At the end of this legislative period, I now ask Dr Neisser and Dr Brauneder to sit here at the Bureau, please. I can kindly invite Dr Neisser to address a few words to the House. - Please, Heinrich. [[General condolences.]] Farewell by Second President Dr. Heinrich Neisser
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e17964	Mr President, Mr Fischer! I often thank you for having the opportunity to speak to you from here – from above. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It won't repeat itself, but it's a need to say a few sentences. I've been listening to this house for 24 years. I gave my first speech on military policy in November 1975. To date, the arguments are actually quite comparable. I came to Parliament at a time when there was a completely different structure; two major parties are opposed to a small opposition party. Today, there are two government parties facing three opposition parties. So my era in Parliament was an era in which I have also experienced the change of this Parliament. If I can picture my career in this house, I can describe it in the form of a curve: a curve that began on that chair, on which Mr Zweytick sits today. That was my most beautiful time, I want to say, not because you're right at the door outside, but because it was fortunate to be a backbench. [[Rejoicing]] Unfortunately, one has not had a chance to get through with intermediate calls – that's right. However, I would also like to ask that you do not draw any wrong conclusions from the fact that a winegrower is sitting in my place today on my private hobbies. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I then, as it were, slipped from top to bottom, into the chair of the clubman, and from there I was swimming into the Höh’s office. I'm still sitting there – not for long: I'm talking to you for the last time. I would like to say a few words of thanks and also the apologies. In some newspaper of tomorrow, this terrible diagnosis says that although I have some positive signs, it is said that my granite cases are also a characteristic of me. I am very sorry for this, very cordially to all those who – whether they wanted it or not – had to be recipients of my Grant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] I also thank my two Bureau members. Somehow, the existence of a member of the Bureau is marked by the fact that it is constantly commuting between seriosity and eccentricity. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I believe that this field of tension has been well controlled and managed. I would particularly like to thank the staff of Parliamentary Administration who have supported me in the years here, especially in those where I was sitting at the Bureau. You chose me with a very large majority four years ago. I hope that those who elected me at the time did not regret it, and I hope that those who did not vote for me at the time do not feel confirmed by my work here on this Bureau in their then conduct. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] Of course, I would also like to apologize for all that I have done and should not have done. I apologise above all for the unjustly issued calls for order, but I also apologize for the unjustly unforgiving calls. [[Rejoicing]] [[Renewal cheerfulness and general acknowledgment.]] If you would give me forbearance here, it would facilitate my divorce from the house I am naturally connected with and also remain mentally connected. Finally, I would like to say a personal sentence – please do not consider this as a false co-heresy –: I have been in this House for 24 years, and I have been able to establish a number of personal friendships over all these years – in every political group. Even though I look into these groups today – this applies to each of them – I know that this is still existing. This means to me that even after leaving, I will need to see many of you again. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say from me: I keep you in very good memory. I hope you don't have a hard time doing the same thing with me. - Thank you many times. [[The Members rise from their seats and give a long-lasting condolences.]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00182_d7e18080	Ladies and gentlemen! As we have just decided to close the 1998/99 session by the end of this sitting, we are now really just a few minutes before the end of this sitting. This morning, it became 182. The session opens up like a routine session – and then it turns out that the last session of a legislative period is something very special, has its own emotions, its own laws. I am pleased that the debate that we have finally led to the necessary legislative decision has given speeches and thoughts which are important for parliamentarianism. If my personal judgment on Austrian parliamentarianism is always a little more positive and optimistic than that which can certainly be said, then it is simply because, if you are elected chairman of a body, you feel this body in a special way and wish it to be recognized and to play an important role – and do not want much that can be said about our National Council simply to fall under the table. I think: If it is so that journalists, members of the House and political scientists express critical thoughts – why should we not also call what is good and tangible in this Parliament, even in the European comparison! I'll try that in the future. I believe that many, or all of the 183 Members, deserved to be represented in their positive pages to parliamentarianism in Austria too. [[General condolences.]] If, as I said, the last day of the sitting is something special, then the last hour on the last day of the sitting is something special. I can go to the last hour in XVIII. legislative period when Robert Lichal and Heide Schmidt were sitting up here and Robert Lichal had his last meeting here. We called it "the hour of Robert Lichal" and that rightfully. You, Mr Neisser, have a good perspective for your wish. Robert Lichal has really found many good friends, and he is still welcome today in his straight, direct, unmistakable manner. Heinrich, this will be the same with you! That is why it is now also the hour of the Heinrich Neisser, this last quarter of Parliament. [[General condolences.]] But something would be unfair if it didn't happen: Some Members today or yesterday had the opportunity to take the floor briefly. Some people had many listeners because they spoke just before a vote, and others had a little different. I think we should really give good wishes to all those who leave! I can't call them all by name now – that would also be measured because, in one case or another, it really depends on the results of the election and therefore only on 3rd. October will be fixed; that is what is now in democracy, and that is a good thing – but one or two can be referred to as an alternative. In the green club, I had the very difficult task yesterday to thank Mr Wabl honestly and to say that he is really green, that those who say he was at the beginning of the green project are right, and I would add that he has fought with such verve and with such commitment, that he sometimes hurt others and in the heat of the political struggle hurt others. But what we must do for the benefit of our colleagues, Mr Wabl, is this immense commitment, this effort to represent its values. I would like to thank Mr Wabl and the others who leave the green club. [[General condolences.]] I do this to the Liberal Forum by addressing Mrs. Mother. She has fulfilled many tasks with so much sensitivity here as a folder. She was always very concerned about correctness. It has indeed presented valuable things in its debates in the House. I would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] As I see it now, Mr Applebeck is not here from the parliamentary club. She was a writer and sometimes had very unpleasant tasks to perform, while counting voices or the like. But I have always felt that she carried out the task as a writer with all her strength, and there has always been good cooperation with her. She was chairperson in a Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. It has been involved in debates in a way that, as they say, it has had the ear of the house. I would like to say a warm word of thanks to all those who leave this group. [[General condolences.]] There are two clubs in the ÖVP – I have already mentioned it – to say goodbye to colleagues Dr. König and Dr. Mock. In the 1970s, when Dr. Mock Klubobmann became the ÖVP, he was a leading officer of the ÖAAB. Some of the laws of politics have led to conflicts between the SPÖ and the ÖAAB often much sharper than with the Farmers' Federation or with the Economic Association. Political scientists must examine why it was; it was, at least, so. Nevertheless, Mr Mock, we fulfilled our tasks as well as we could. There has never been any personal collision in the many, many years. This has also made it easier for me to congratulate you very much on your birthday and to appreciate what is to be said: Alois Mock is a European-style Christian Democrat. This is recognized throughout the house. Mr König also did not exercise that easily – sometimes I suspect that this is a little more difficult in the ÖVP than it is in the SPÖ – function of the clubman and has also done his parliamentary work at the head of his group with great persistence. I would also like to express my warmest thanks to the two colleagues. [[General condolences.]] In the SPÖ, I turn to my Ural Friend Ewald Nowotny, with whom I have been a private friend for decades – he has then moved to Vienna, to Hietzing – and with whom I have had many, many good conversations. He now leaves us because he takes over an important European task. I would also like to mention Franz Löschnak in the same breath. I would like to tell you that sometime in June 1977, in my room in Parliament, a meeting took place between the then Federal Chancellor Kreisky, his vice chancellor and his then clubman. The then Federal Chancellor said: I am tired of what I have to do, and so many dates in Parliament; I need a Secretary of State, and he should understand something about administration. The then vice chancellor said: I know a young Senate Councillor at the Town Hall. He's very capable and will certainly make it excellent. Many years later I asked Franz Löschnak: When did you even know you were going to be a State Secretary? Who told you about the meeting we had at the time? – Then he said: I've heard from the radio. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Not the only one!]] This is a political fate, as it happens here and there. But it's still better, you learn from the radio that you're going to be something – and not that you're not something anymore. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One last sentence: All those who excite, a warm thank you! A thank you also to the members of the Presidential Conference! Thank you very much to the staff here in the house, the staff of Members and those colleagues who ensure that the work of Parliament, the National Council is transported to the media! I share the view that we can be proud of our Republic. We have a great responsibility for the further development of democracy. We will now, as it were, the staves of the XX. in the XXI. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. Live our Republic! [[General condolences.]] The sitting is closed.
