ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e3736	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 162. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 159. Meeting of 24. ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 and 26. In February 1999, the Parliament's Directorate remained disquieted and undisputed. As an obstacle, Mr Dr. Swimper. Before I start the current hour, I would like to say that a given call for order cannot be reversed, but that I am very careful about the minutes of the sitting of 16 May. Mr Ruttenstorfer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. . I want this to be contained in the Minutes. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e3782	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject Research creates jobs First, Mr President, Mr Novotny spoke. His speaking time is 10 minutes. The Federal Minister will then deliver an opinion on the subject. Please, Mr Novotny.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e3812	Mr President. High house! We have chosen as the theme of the current hour "Research creates jobs". Of course, the field of research has many aspects, but I would like to look at very specific research issues here from the point of view of economic policy and thus of employment. It has now become common good that research and, above all, development and technology are fundamental issues and one of the most important factors of production in the economy. In Austria there is a need for re-examination in this respect – that is to say, quite openly. We have, for example, a need for re-examination in the material field. Economic research is too low in Austria as a research quota. We also need follow-up in the spiritual field, because research in Austria is still seen with skepticism, with caution and as a danger, and not as an opportunity and not as a challenge, as I believe it would be more useful. Much has already happened in this direction. It's also getting a lot. This current hour will now provide an opportunity to provide information on this area. I would just like to add a few points which I think are particularly useful. One example is the K-plus competence centres. This is a direct link between research and economic activities with appropriate regional links. Examples are the microelectronics centre in Villach, the Light Metal Competence Center in Ranshofen, the software center in Hagenberg near Linz and the like. That is, I think there are already very concrete, very interesting approaches. Further point: It is important that we establish European research areas in Austria. As a concrete example, I should like to mention the wind tunnel, which has been built here in Vienna as the core of a world's leading competence centre in the rail vehicle sector. I can refer to the activities of the ERP fund. And I should like to draw attention to the greater possibilities that the research funding funds now have, not least because of increased funding from the Austrian National Bank's anniversary fund. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take advantage of today's day to point out that the tax reform, which has been designed and completed this week, contains very important points which are directly research-related. The first area is the increase in the research allowance from currently 12 and 18 percent to 25 and 35 percent respectively. This increase in the research allowance is also an important indication for entrepreneurial decision-making in order to give greater weight to research. I therefore believe that this tax reform is also a very important structural aspect. I would like to stress two other areas in the context of the tax reform, namely measures to improve professional qualifications. In the future, as for investments in real capital, there will also be opportunities for investment in human capital. We have provided for a 9 per cent Quasi investment exemption for this purpose. And what's important is: For the first time, vocational training activities of workers will now be able to be taken into account to a specific extent in tax terms. We believe that this is a very important step forward, because it is important for workers to be able to continue their training at a time of rapid technological development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another area associated with the tax reform is the promotion of new business start-ups – something that is particularly sensitive to technology policy. We have, in particular, provided for a significant reduction in additional labour costs, namely 7 percentage points, in the case of redundancies. I believe that this tax reform, which we will now present to the House, is an important concrete step in order to give more weight to research and development in Austria in economic reality. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you have to say – I have already suggested this –: Of course, research funding is only an aspect of innovation policy, perhaps not even the most important. This means that innovation-oriented research policy must be considered very comprehensively. There are also issues of risk financing, for example. In this respect, we have also made significant progress in Austria. There are already venture capital financing by several credit companies. In this area, as I mean, we are in the right direction. In my opinion, a very serious area is administrative barriers. I recently had the opportunity to have a conversation with Austrians in Munich who are working there in the field of biotechnology. It is really a big problem that while there are a number of young people who have been highly trained at the Austrian universities, they have no way of applying their knowledge in Austria. One of the main problems is that there are a number of location barriers in Austria. I therefore believe that it is important for us to create the legal basis for strengthening the possibilities for industrial research. But I would like to say quite openly: One point that is of current sensitivity is the draft new plant law, which comes from Mr Umweltminister. If this new plant law comes in the way now envisaged, it is a massive obstacle to economic research in Austria from the point of view of the economic-related research community. I have to say quite clearly that this new law would do more harm in research, in technology-oriented research than we could do through the use of hundreds of millions of research funding. I mean, you have to see very clearly the corresponding dimensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be clear that research policy is international. There is an international competition of research sites. There is no research site in the world today that would be permanently secured. We must therefore also strive to be attractive in this competition. This is all the more important than, in the meantime, a number of important research companies, unfortunately, research-intensive companies are no longer in Austrian ownership. I am thinking, for example, of Immuno, one of the most important research sites in Austria, which, of course, had to compete in the internal competition within the group. It is important that we create the appropriate conditions here, not least as regards freedom of movement in the selection of research staff and administrative legal bases. I would like to mention another point in this context, which is also research-relevant: the issue of ownership of central research-related companies in Austria. For example, the role of ÖIAG as a core shareholder is not only an industrial policy question, but also a research policy question, because it is precisely about securing research skills – and these are just typical headquarter functions – for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Winston Churchill has once said – this is unfortunately of special topicality today –: "War is a far too serious matter to leave it to the military!" – I would like to say in an analogy: Research policy is far too important to leave it in the narrower sense only to research politicians. It is a matter of general policy, and we wanted to underline this with this current hour.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e3901	The current hour is now under discussion by the Federal Minister. Its opinion should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e3923	Mr President. High house! For a developed industrial state like Austria, research is the basis for its further successful economic development. Research is the basis not only for demanding production, for demanding products, for demanding jobs, but is at the same time the basis for a competitive Austria. That is why this is a central point of government efforts. However, research also needs appropriate skilled workers to be able to make use of research. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria has so far been able to develop and maintain its position in Europe and in the world essentially over this extremely well-qualified workforce. They are the prerequisites that the effort that is being put into research can also be used. Let me say a few words about what we are doing in this sector and what is to be done in this sector. I believe that it is primarily a matter of creating an environment in which research and development can flourish. It is necessary, first and foremost, to ensure that there is a modernisation and opening up of the institutions which are state-funded or state-funded, because universities and non-university research institutions must be open to those who can make further practical use of these research results. We must ensure that universities that have a significant share of research in Austria continue to open up to society. We must ensure that the transfer of knowledge, of research results from the research institutes to the social exploitation phase is improved to the enterprises. We are doing this, among other things, through a whole series of measures. Mr Novotny has already pointed this out. The K-plus centres, the competence centres under the K-plus programme, are such an element in which we bring together high-quality research institutions with companies working in the very demanding field of research and development. This creates clusters from which new high-performance and competitive companies and research institutions can emerge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are also doing this, for example, by setting up an impulse programme at the technical colleges, which we have already carried out last year and will be carrying out again this year. This programme deals with the transfer of knowledge from regional universities to the regional economy, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. We are doing this by introducing a post-doc programme, in which the graduates of a doctoral programme are offered the opportunity to work together with small and medium-sized enterprises in a project, without the cost of doing research, developing work, and thus building a bridge from the smaller companies to the research centres. And we do it – to mention a final example in this list – by increasing the research allowance, but not only an increase in the tax reform, but at the same time creating a special 35 per cent exemption that rewards those companies that either increase their research expenses or even start to work in research and development. And in this segment we create very direct incentives for the employment of the most qualified researchers and developers in small and medium-sized enterprises. I mean, that's a real step towards more research in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, we also need – and this has also been the subject of the discussion that has been conducted with intensity and commitment in recent years – more money, both from the public hand and more money from the economy, from industry. But I think we can also look back on success in this area. For example, we have invested a lot of money in the so-called technology billions. We have put substantial funds into research from divestment proceeds – I only remember Telering’s proceeds – or also out of dividend payments received by the federal government as owners, and we will spend additional funds on sales proceeds – for example for mobile phone licenses – for research. High house! Each research schilling, which is issued in Austria, leads to about 20 sales schilling. We should be aware of this fact. It is worth investing in research! It is worth it for the state, but it is also worth it for companies. This 20 sales shilling, which is caused by a research schilling, is delivered to 80 percent in export. Austria can only hold its position in the world economically, industrially and in terms of development if we invest in research, if we are competitive in the world. We are on a good path in this respect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Research funding, research policy, however, is not an instrument to achieve short-term success. On the one hand, research needs a solid foundation in the field of basic research and, on the other, does not benefit tomorrow. Basic research has, as it were, an indispensable advantage that it does not work without it. But when the concrete economic and industrial benefits will occur, it is not to be foreseen. Consider, for example, the development of laser technology, founded by Einstein in 1917, but it was only in 1958, that is, 40 years later, that it was first successful in bringing it into operation; the first industrial uses were only started in 1960. But then an incomparable boom began in the use of this new technology. What we must recognize in research policy is that it is worth investing in the foundations and that is exactly what is needed if we are to have solid success for work and industry in Austria afterwards. High house! In summary, I think we can say: We must first and foremost be aware that research-promoting policies mean that we must invest in people by training them optimally by doing everything we can to ensure that future workers get optimal training. We need to use all the gift reserves! It is not a question of leaving a part to the left, whether people who cannot afford higher-quality training today because of their income relationships, or women who are often disadvantaged in the education process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! We must also ensure the appropriate framework conditions for promoting and supporting curiosity and risk-taking among people. We need these qualities not only where research is concerned, but also where it is about people trusting themselves to set up a company to implement independently what they can. We need to promote and develop more indifference and risk-taking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are trying our best in the area of facilitating and supporting a better, better and successful transition from the very good training institutions to the companies. We must facilitate this transition, and we must improve it, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, by making it easier for them to take the first academic step, because this is often a necessary structural step in order to be able to take a foothold in the field of research and development. Finally, we must also ensure that, in the research promotion system, in communication, especially with small and medium-sized enterprises, understanding and information flow are improved. – There has been a great deal in this regard in recent years, and I think we can look and wait with confidence at the consequences of the policy that has now been launched. All these things are underway, and with the forthcoming "Research Strategy 99 plus", we will also ensure that the institutions working in the field of science and research are more focused on the output than on securing their position in the input of money. It is a question of ensuring that science and research are aware that technology policy is something that is being carried out in the interests of society, in the interests of the people of that country. That's what we're making policy for!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4046	Thank you many times, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate on the current hour. The speaking times are 5 minutes each. Mr Dr. Lukesch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4073	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Especially today, it is important to point out that our safety concept is a multidimensional one: It ranges from external security to social security and job security. The ÖVP has always been based on this concept. In this context, technology policy is essential! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Do you mean research in the arms sector?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, in Bad Aussee, the Federal Government decided to set itself the goal of increasing the research rate in Austria to 2.5 percent by 2005. In order to get the skeptics out of control in the opposition series, a tax reform was also decided to create a completely new framework for research and technology, especially in the private sector, which challenges and stimulates. – This is competence of action! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! It is true that research and technology policy requires a real mix of state commitment, private entrepreneurship and the approval and encouragement of new developments. I am particularly proud, however, that the negotiators for tax reform have succeeded in incorporating the tax reform Commission's approach, which has made clear recommendations in this area, into the tax reform programme for the year 2000. I am of the same opinion as Mr Novotny: Since the research allowance is practically doubled, i.e. to 35 percent, this is a really clear sign in relation to new research expenditure of companies. That is what we have always called for, which is to improve the framework conditions for our country's research location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The new support measures for business creation – reducing the additional wage costs for these young companies – will also allow and promote dynamic, technology-oriented entrepreneurship in Austria. That's an important point. However, I would particularly like to point out – and this is almost a small inner triumph for me as an educational economist – that human capital has finally succeeded in levelling spirit capital with the material capital in a tax manner. The fact that a corresponding investment exemption for training is introduced for enterprises as well as for workers for their own continuing training is certainly a milestone in Austrian tax policy and an important point of tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to add a small point, so to speak, to give the opposition a little field: Last week, the fund for the promotion of the industrial economy again organised a discussion with MEPs. In this discussion, not only were dynamic young entrepreneurs present, who have shown what they can do – I am particularly proud of a small company from the country of Tyrol – but on this occasion also the negative message has been concluded, the share of research in GDP in Austria is only 1.52 percent. The Research Fund has demonstrated that the direct measures alone – i.e. the technology offensives, the new liability measures and the already mentioned priority funding – will result in the research rate being slightly more than 1.9 percent in this year. So we are on a very, very good path, and the industry, the economy, will go along this path, especially then, Federal Minister, if the new funds, the money provided by the Austrian National Bank for this purpose, flow in that area – I say this in particular respect for basic research – in which we still have a comparative disadvantage, namely in applied research, in the FFF. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] In this sense, I welcome the measures of tax reform and say: The technology offensive shows effect!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4143	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4164	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We have just heard, as usual, jubilation from the side of the coalition. But Mr Minister One of them has given me the key to research policy, and I would now like to critically examine it from an opposition point of view. The Minister said: Let's look and wait for the results. – I think it would be necessary not only to look and wait, but finally to act, Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But if you want to, we are looking at the research policy of recent years somewhat more closely. In fact, I am very grateful to Mr Novotny for putting the economy into play – that research – this is a postulate, which we also attach – still not only creates jobs, but above all the economy. And the economy must be provided with framework conditions which will enable it to continue research without economic risk in the future. But let us look at the economic policies of the Social Democrats in the past. It is no coincidence that today the process begins over the largest pleite of the Second Republic, namely the "consumer" argument, in which 17 billion schillings were put into the sand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] – Yes, Mr Novotny, that is unpleasant to you, but that is just socialist economic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A cornerstone of social democracy has, as it were, broken away, thousands of jobs have been lost – a "mark" of socialist economic and employment policy. But we don't have to stay with the consumer at all. If we go to Vienna, we look at my home district, what economic policy looks like there – and you, Mr Vergestnich, will confirm this to me: In 1960 my district, Vienna-Donaustadt, had 50,000 inhabitants, and only at the industrial site of Stadlau there were 5 000 industrial jobs: at AEG, Elin, Waagner-Biró and many more. At the end of this year, there is no industrial workplace left! The last farm, which is now also moving from this region, is Waagner-Biró with the last 270 jobs. [[Abg. Edler: And what did you do?]] This is socialist economic policy! And you have to say that too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: And what did you do?]] Mr Edler, it does not work at all if you look at photo dates and try to support the workforce. [[Abg. Edler: What's the FPÖ doing?]] You have been able to create an economic policy and framework that would allow jobs to be maintained, and that is what you are not. [[Abg. Edler: What's the FPÖ doing?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's look at this and wait, you said, Minister. – To shorten research investment alone on a tax package, as you did yesterday’s day, is too little. A lot of text has been spoken, in fact, according to the government paper, the research initiative is only a seven-pillar paper containing a text without precise information. Only income bases or income taxes are minimized. Only this creates incentives! I have already tried to explain to you that, of course, there must also be a yield-oriented economy so that it works, because 25 percent of zero is known to be zero. So it's not going to be alone. If we want to see what the Federal Chancellor said on 18.11., namely that research is an investment in the future – what we are investing in research and development today, we are getting back again and again for future generations through progress and employment – and if we want to take action immediately, then we have to resort to the instrument of direct research funding and we cannot rely on the fact that perhaps through the detour of indirect research funding, through the income tax base some way, perhaps in 2001, 2002 or 2003. In fact, it is necessary to press the back of the economy so that it can continue to take action by this government in the context of these adverse conditions which we have today. You just have to say that. It must continue so that perhaps one or the other takes action, also in the sense of research policy. If we take a close look at the situation, we must also find that it is not the case, as Mr Lucisch said, that the F&E quota has a 1.9 percent share of gross domestic product, but that this proportion is proven to be only 1.52 percent, according to an OECD study, not according to a liberal study, and that is at least 0.6 percentage points behind the OECD section. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] If we look at comparable countries such as Finland or Germany, we can see that this quota is much higher there. In Bavaria, for example, there is a quota of 4 percent, which is 1.52 percent in Austria! You can't talk about that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Laptop and leather pants!]] But, for example, in the patent application sector at the European Patent Office, we see the figures as they really are. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] There Austria has a share of 0.91 percent compared to Switzerland, which has a share of 3.47 percent,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4292	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4308	... and Sweden with 1.71 percent. Minister! Let us press the thumbs on the economy to keep it going despite this government until perhaps research promotion measures take place! The liberals will support the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4341	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4362	Good morning, Minister of State! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that the SPÖ has chosen this topic for the current hour: Research creates jobs. The interesting thing about this is that it is apparently only in 1999 that the SPÖ realizes that research is creating jobs, because this important issue should have been dealt with in a much more intensive manner. I would remind you that in 1996 the Schmidt-Hochleitner paper was celebrated as a driving force for a reorganisation of research policy in Austria. And what has become of it? – A balloon that has found its continuation in Bad Aussee, when the Federal Government has fully declared that the research rate will be increased to 2.5 percent of GDP within the next six years. Federal Minister! I agree with you that we will not reach a share of 2.5 percent of GDP in the next six years. You've been promising this for decades! Although it has changed a little at the promille rate – possibly even slightly in percentage – we are not nearly as far as we can achieve over 2% of what we really need. I think that is very unfortunate, even though the FFF – the previous speaker of the ÖVP, Mr Niederwieser, has already mentioned this; I apologise, Mr Lukesch, I take back everything and I say that you are the name of Luke – according to the latest findings, I must nevertheless correct you – I have a quota of 1.71 per cent for 1997. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: For 1999, I said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Look, look! You haven't exchanged the calendar yet!]] We will still see what figures the Federal Minister has presented to us, because the FFF says that those of the ESTAT, i.e. those of the statistical material provided by the Federal Government, are in its foundations. So I would ask you, Minister of State, to clarify us. What's the matter? The calculations of the FFF or your own calculations that you commissioned as the Federal Government? But it goes even further: When it comes to achieving a research rate of 2.5 percent of GDP within the next six years, even Mr Niederweiser of the SPÖ – now I have made no mistake – says that this will probably be difficult to achieve and that he considers it to be reachable up to a maximum of 2 percent. . So you have to do persuasion work in your own group, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Smolle: We know, Minister! You have our pity!]] The Green Paper on research policy should not be final until autumn. I think that's very sad. It should have been there four years ago so that we could have set the right course. For example, the right course has been set in Bavaria – in the so-skinned and so-laughed Bavaria. With the action "Laptop and Leather Pants" the Bavaria have achieved one: They have provided several billions to make a big leap forward in research policy, and they have achieved that. They have taken a big step forward, they have established research centres. We should also, as I mean, keep in mind something else that has been put before us in Germany: There it has been decided that Germany will become a biotechnology country number one in Europe. What happened? – There was a wave of company start-ups. SMEs have been attracted, and Germany has therefore reached a position in this respect that makes it absolutely necessary in the world to take it into account in terms of biotechnology. What we reach with the cluster is good, but still not enough. The University of Sussex has placed us among the 15 European countries with a huge distance to the last place. The market is considered uninteresting, and the legal environment is extremely difficult. – This is a study that is embarrassing, considering that in Austria one praises for doing so much in research policy. There is also a lack of funding for women in research. I know that the Hertha-Firnberg posts – these are ten jobs – have been created. But that's far from enough. We have hardly any researchers in this area who are actively supporting us. However, the integration of women should be one of the most important points. Mr Federal Minister – and with this I already come to my conclusion –: [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] What happens today is at best a spring awakening. As summer will, it will prove to be. I hope that we have enough water to pour the research landscape so that research can spread.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4445	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4467	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the part of the government parties reminds me of this Billa saying: "Yes, of course!" – Certainly, for years we have known and preached this: Research is important in the long term for the labour market, for jobs. Of course! Education, qualification – not only research in the narrower sense, but also training, training, further training and so on – are necessary in the long term. This is a site issue, but it does not necessarily work in the short term. It is no wonder, therefore, that none of my previous speakers from the government parties has even said a single word about the specific number of jobs to be created in this area by the measures mentioned. I can only explain to you once again – Mr Gredler has already pointed out – why we are so skeptical: The history of the Federal Government's technology concept, which may play a certain role in this context, is now really one of the saddest chapters of the previous legislative period. I am thinking only of how difficult it was to bring the issue into a committee at all, to bring this committee to the fore. Then there was the repeated presentation of concepts – by Seibersdorf, by Wifo and so on – which were not even taken note of by the government at the beginning, later revised and blessed in Rust, and then the Schmidt-Hochleitner paper, and that again failed. Because of this history You probably understand that we are a little skeptical here, even if you take a small step in the right direction – after the example of Bayern for me. Because, it's true, whenever you go in this area – I'm talking about research and technology policy – one meter towards Munich, you go in the right direction, but the distances are still very, very big! Mr. Lukesch! You were the only one, at least the first to mention the target of the 2.5 percent research rate. The two previous speakers did not do this – I do not know whether they believe in it or not, colleague Novotny and Minister One. I can only remind you of this: The problem of research expenditure in Austria is not primarily one of the public sector, but one of the business sectors. That was the case so far, and that will be the case in the future. If we want to bring the research rate to 2.5 percent of GDP, taking this structural problem into account, we are talking here of sizes of 15 to 30 billion schilling per year in the enterprise sector! There is a need for much more persuasion by the two government parties before I believe that the increase in the research allowance which is now contained in the tax reform concept is quite acceptable and correct in itself. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You must already have the tax reform...!]] I never believe that in life! Mr. Lukesch! You know as well as I do that the previous research expenditure is essentially concentrated on 200 large companies. These will benefit from the reform. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Not just! Not just!]] Then there is the 35 percent – we will see exactly how this is formulated – from which SMEs may benefit. And this is supposed to generate between 15 and 30 billion additional business expenditure for research? – Let’s see if that’s enough! I never believe that in life. If the title of today's present hour – I would have said almost: today's mission – is not simply "research and education", but "research creates jobs", why not take up the old proposal of all the technology concepts that came from outside and refer the research allowance to the personnel expenses and not to everything bad, so that you will again need 30 certificates from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to determine whether something is eligible research or not? – This has not happened again in my knowledge, and that is why this is a highly inaccurate, job-oriented report in the field of research release. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I can conclude. "Yes, of course!", I said: Of course, more needs to be done for research. But we must, please, not only talk about state support, but also about entrepreneurs. More investment in skills needs to be made. It is great that in future, training for workers will be promoted more than it is now. Only – since Mr. Novotny then also mentioned the Bartenstein draft in a breath –: I do not know this draft in detail now, but the duct of your execution is that plant permits should simply be granted beyond all environmental concerns. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not how it is!]] It can't be! If more research is required in the same breath, but on the other hand there is to be a circumcision of the rights of access to facilities – and that is what I took away from your word message – then, as I think, this cannot be the way of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4554	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4576	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you are dealing with research policy, you have to get up early. I am pleased that so many of these invitations have been accepted today and that we are discussing research with us. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 9.45 am is not so early anymore!]] Let me focus on the statements made by two previous speakers. Mr Graf said that economic competence and therefore the research competence of the social democrats were inadequate because today the "consumer" process begins in Vienna. – Mr Graf, this is a fact, but: What we have not done, what only you and the liberals have done, is to involve the "Oberkoncursant" of the Republic, Peter Rosenstingl, as a clubcassier. You have committed him as the cashier of the liberal club, and I do not want to know how many of the Members who sit in your ranks have still invested with him and lost money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] So you have no legitimacy at all – I repeat: no legitimacy at all! – to judge economic competence as you have had Rosenstingl in your ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I very much regret that, Mr Graf, only seven lines have been noticed. The new "Research Strategy 99 plus", which has been in place for some time and is being re-examined at a conference today, is a very extensive paper, and this will be expanded by the plans. But this is only a part of what the Federal Government and the government parties have presented. If you have actually noticed only seven lines, then you have really not been involved in research. Mr Gredler and also colleague Van der Bellen has now addressed the 2 percent quota. I would like to take this opportunity to take a clear position on what I said about these 2 or 2.5 percent. My statement was that a share of 2.5% of gross domestic product for research is a very, very ambitious objective and that this objective can only be achieved if the companies are significantly involved in their research investment. Without that, it won't be. It will not be possible that this increase by 66 percent will only be from the state within five years. The tax reform actually brings important impetus in this context. However, it must be said that these impulses are, of course, also financed to a considerable extent from the budget. Unfortunately, there are still companies that withdraw their research institutions from Austria. To prevent this is a very important goal. But it has nothing to do with Austrian research policy – think of Semperit in Traiskirchen or Henkel – if, for some reasons that are decided elsewhere, research capacities are largely deducted. You have to warn about that in time, as I mean. It has been pointed out several times – Mr Novotny has said this first – that we can see a lot in the Munich region. It is indeed true that a number of colleagues are looking at these things. What do you see there, for example? – Sure one thing that has not yet been mentioned: It is also very much invested in the field of patent exploitation, in the transfer of research results into companies. I think that is an important point of approach. A second important point is the research family mentioned by the Federal Minister. This begins at schools, and I hope that the young people sitting in the gallery today have the opportunity in schools to develop this attitude through research. The curiosity is present; it only needs to be maintained in school. This curiosity and this research family is also highly present in Austria, and I count only three examples of hundreds. For example, there is a highly interesting project for solar cell development, which is being carried out at the University of Linz, which is about a whole new technology, which is intended to enable energy to be gained from solar cells that are practically mounted in the form of a paint. This is an extremely future-looking technology. Or think, as further examples, of the research in physics at the University of Innsbruck, which leads to the developments of the new quantum computers, or of the interesting COST project in the Arsenal in the field of street research. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4626	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4642	Austria's researchers are more valid internationally than in their own country. It is a common task of politics, research, the economy and the trade union to improve this attitude here with us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4672	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4693	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Research creates jobs" is the title of our current hour. I can only underline on behalf of the EIA that this sentence contains a great deal of what we really need to take into account for the next few years. We have heard a number of proposals to this effect today. In particular, I would like to underline what my colleague, Professor Lucisch, has said here on the issues of incentives in the framework of tax reform. This is a very concrete advantage that an entrepreneur can get, and it will benefit him. This will enable new jobs to be created forward-looking in research. We very much welcome this from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have already been very concerned about this question. For example, we conducted an investigation on "Technology creates work" from the ÖAAB and developed a concept for this. I think it is also very necessary that we consider: How can one support an idea that often arises at the workbench in such a way that it becomes serial production? – On the way there are many steps missing, because a small or medium-sized entrepreneur often cannot afford to carry the ideas developed by his employees at the workbench, so that it becomes a successful product for sale. That is why, as I believe, we must continue to think in this direction, and, Mr Federal Minister, centres of competence – which you have once presented as an idea – are a right way to go, as small and medium-sized enterprises in these centres can also get guidance and help in such projects. We underline that. That's really a good thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not wish to mention that, from my point of view, a large project, as once thought towards Eurocryst, towards Austron, has something for itself, because of its exemplary effect, as a signal, so that research in Austria receives incentives through a large project, so that others go after it. I think that's good. Federal Minister! But unfortunately – and I do not want to let that be mentioned at this current hour – there are also things that need to be clarified. We have had a great research facility in Austria, I would like to say: the research centre Seibersdorf, which still exists today, but which is slowly spread into all the winds and where employees are extremely reduced. But what do we see as a result? – In the last few days and weeks I also had to see that there are all at once advertising campaigns from this research centre Seibersdorf, which is hard hit, which is financially in need. And what do we see, ladies and gentlemen? We see a picture of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who appears in an advertisement in many daily newspapers, and a picture of the Minister of State One. [[The speaker shows a copy of a newspaper inserate.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: All right!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go! So much of that, and not one at all?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder when I read here "Mut zu Neuem" – printed in red; this clearly fits – and among them relatively small "Austrian Research Centers" and very small pushed to the edge "Austrian Research Center Seibersdorf GesmbH": [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Finally on the right path!]] Are the jobs created by this? – I really want to relativize that here. I don't think so! I would also like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, whether you believe [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is a good advertisement!]] Are you, in fact, the jobs created by them? And if so, how many? Or do you think that such an advertising campaign might be more likely to turn money into ads that would have to be invested urgently in research? – I really want to question this critically, and I would also like to speak here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Advertising also belongs to this!]] Especially now, at a time when the research centre Seibersdorf is decommissioning employees, in which many of those who are older, who have a lot of know-how, are being forced out of this company, in part even leaving the company, it is not time to advertise with the faces of climate and one big in newspapers, but it would be much more sensible to support research jobs in Seibersdorf with this money. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I would have expected such a thing from the liberals rather than from you, because these little spirits are sitting over there!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps some kind of job could be created in research. Therefore, I would also like to relativize the title of our current hour: "Research can create jobs" – if the policy framework is given. To create this, Mr Federal Minister, I can ask you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4831	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4853	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have seen, after the egg of the tax reform has been laid down and it is now a great deal of work being done, that the coalition celebrates each other as far as research and development is concerned. A corresponding hectic has broken out. One symposium and one survey hunt the other, symptomatic of the fact that the important follow-up event on the subject of "Research Strategy 99 plus" is taking place today in the absence of Members, because we are committed here. But today there have been people who are not otherwise seen at the relevant events. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But this is a naughtiness! That's what I'm rejecting!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the SPÖ has now come to realize that an appropriate technology policy and science policy is contributing to the creation of sustainable jobs – and it has been holding fast to the old structures of the state-owned industry for a very long time and, if not economic pressure, would probably still be holding fast to these structures today – I already ask: Why have you done so little for this legislative period in the last four years? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You have said a lot of things in your analysis, but the last four years speak a different language. You could almost say: "In the evening the lazy will be diligent!" – If you analyze all the framework conditions that have been set, if you look at what has become of the technology policy concept, if you consider how privatization proceeds have been used in Bavaria – and there has been an envious look there – then you can see that it is very quiet in this regard. It is only necessary to see how, for example, the merger of the research institutions Seibersdorf and Arsenal deludes, how Ambassador Jankovitsch is now touring around the area and collecting sympathy for the establishment of a large research institution, and how we have not taken a step from the spot, or how far it is possible or will be possible to promote human resources for research and development in small and medium-sized enterprises without excessive bureaucracy, and how far we have come with a view to medium- or longer-term financial planning in the field of research institutions – that is, how far we have not come. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must make it possible to secure medium and longer-term funding for our research institutions, because no researcher can expect excellence if he is constantly in existence and livelihoods! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or let us take a look at the situation at the universities where it wants. They know that the rectors' conference is about to escape its influence. Where is a development concept for the universities compared to that available for the colleges? What is it like with the further development of the law of the service, which the rectors call one-brightly as a brake for the further development and opportunities of scientific staff? What is it like with the expansion of autonomy while at the same time withdrawing the ministry from universities? – We do not take any further steps in all these questions. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Professions for professorships, teaching chairs must address top international staff so that our universities, our research can join the top-level field of Europe and the world again. What about the accreditation of the universities in international competition? Only international competition can ensure that a high quality standard is maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Announcements are already being tried to sell as execution notice. I hope that the example of the wind tunnel brought by Professor Novotny does not mean that the first thing to do is to make wind around research. Minister! If you take concrete steps to the good of research, science and the economy, then you will also have our support! - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4903	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion that is being held here today, and the issue that has been chosen, are indeed important. If, however, Mr Lukesch has referred to it as a testament to the competence of action, I will tell you, Mr Lukesch, that your contributions are only evidenced by the beautiful speeches, but not by the competence of action in the field of research policy. Mr Schöggl asked what you have done over the last four years. He took a lot too short. What has the great coalition done in the last 13 years of its term of office in this field? The fact that, right before the autumn elections, before the EU elections, you have to do something about it is simply a question of a policy of announcement, which has been in place in recent years, but not of structural change, as it would simply be necessary in this Austrian system of social partners, of party consultation and of the pro-pore. That's what's missing and you can't get through to. Because the "technology billions" was a far-reaching announcement, but what has become of it, we all know. She's abducted, she's sent out. It has become nothing of what really would have meant a boost in the field of research, what you had to admit today by the government itself here. However, even in the case of simple measures, such as renewable energy sources, which bring not only rural areas, but especially small and medium-sized enterprises, a great deal of research opportunities and, in particular, the possibilities for implementing new knowledge, nothing is done there. Ladies and gentlemen! If, therefore, the Federal Government today claims that it has taken a major step forward in this matter, it must be noted that: You didn't come far. You may have taken a big step, but you didn't get far. A slug, who would think now, who is lying, has short legs, and with short legs you don't get far even with big steps. You won't be able to say that. But it can be seen, Mr Lukesch, that the coalition is not even agreed at the starting point. You have said here today that we stand at 1.71 percent of GDP in terms of the research rate. In this context, it is interesting to note that since January 1999, a motion for a resolution by Mr Gartlehner and Mr Fekter has been in the industrial subcommittee, which is expected to be 1.56% of GDP at present. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a new report!]] It is interesting that these are the latest figures of the ESTAT, Mr Luke, and you know that much better than the ESTAT, because you have a much larger overview. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the government and the coalition parties do not even agree from the outset. What you're doing here sounds good, you want to present something, but you really don't want to do anything. Mr Lukesch, in the field of research, it is not only a matter of making research funds available to the State, but also of encouraging companies to do something about this, in particular by Mr Van der Bellen. However, this is not a question of the good approval of coalition parties, but it is a question of institutional conditions. And you haven't created these institutional conditions over the past 13 years, otherwise you could stand here today and say: We have already reached 2.5 percent of GDP, we do not have to do something in addition, we are within Europe at least in the first third in this area – and not in the last place, as we have to say at the moment. Mr Niederweiser has rightly said his caution in this regard, and I therefore do not want to go any further. I would just like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Schmidt-Hochleitner paper, which is also available to the government, clearly states that we have few innovative and internationally competitive industrial clusters in Austria, that our industrial structure remains, which is a consequence of the economic policy of the great coalition, and is dominated by the fact that there are shortages in the training system, that there are shortages in high-quality infrastructure, that networking skills are not sufficiently trained, that we have below-average founding rates. In particular, this paper proposes two positions to be implemented: firstly, a strategic pooling in the field of technology policy; secondly, a reorganisation of funding facilities. The latter are now also party-politically assigned and dominated and therefore their activities are rather scattered than bundled. However, this proposal has not been implemented. The only thing that was done – that was then the proposal that Mr Bundesminister One opposed to Schmidt-Hochleitner’s paper – was that: We do not make competence punishment, but we simply install a council for research and technology in the Federal Chancellery. This Council consists of 15 members, 5 of whom come from science and 5 from the economy and 5 are nominated by the social partners. These are the old recipes you want to bring new solutions with. You won't succeed! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4960	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e4982	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, a few comments on previous speeches, particularly those of Mr Spindelegger. If you have complained and criticised the fact that the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Science are actually doing advertising for themselves with means of taxation, I would like to join this criticism. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that, in pre-election periods, almost all or many members of the government seem to have been doing so. I am also flattened in a brochure by Mr Bartenstein these days, which gives the impression that he is paying the family benefits from his own pocket. And a few days later came a brochure from the Minister of Finance, in which he recorded this success. Both brochures were mainly cast with pictures and were printed on high gloss paper. In this case, both government parties should review a practice that is really unbearable. If we were to put all this money in these advertising campaigns into research and training, we would probably be a little further. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A positive attitude towards research is actually already taking place in schools as well as overall in a climate that is for or against a more education. I will not get tired of telling you again and again – especially the few colleagues from the Social Democracy, who are in the room – that... [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You are just not overcrowded!]] We are just as many as you are at the moment, and that in slightly different strength conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This would be an interesting perspective!]] So whatever it is: The relation 1.2 billion schilling a year for all school books and self-serving and savings versus 12 billion schilling a year for new tanks under the Mech package, is a very, very bad and really embarrassing relationship for research and education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I am also referring to the comments made by Mr Novotny. If he has sung and complained about the high level of genetic engineering in agriculture and nutrition in this way through the back door, where the poor young researchers should go, if there is no question here in Austria of their achievements with the population, then I must first ask him how he is doing with the market economy. Because when consumers report very clear preferences, I think that should be taken into account in a market economy. Secondly, I am asking – and my colleague Van der Bellen has already criticized the statements on plant law – if it always means that we are passing the consumer, we are passing the citizens, as far as their ecological interests are concerned, whether there are really signs of a modern state that is open to research, when one says that the economy should have every kind of freedom, but the other, the necessary control, the possibilities are taken. I think there can only be a real commitment to a more research, although it is ensured that there are appropriate control mechanisms. The best control is an independent control carried out by universities, research institutions, but also by informed citizens' initiatives. I must say to Mr Novotny that he is obviously not really familiar with current research results. In the UK, an intensive debate on suppressed research is under way. These are "revolver sheets" such as the "Financial Times", which already speak of "Frankenstein Food", and newspapers such as the "Guardian", which speak of "oppressive research". Federal Minister! I have to say that: Of course, there should be research that goes hand in hand with the economy, but that can't be everything. If we trust that the economy will create jobs, then the necessary control will be lacking. And here I miss a public initiative towards a genuinely persistent risk research and control of the possible dangers that may also be associated with new technologies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5041	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5060	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs Petrovic, you have just demonstrated that perceptions are very individual. Your impressions of Mr Novotny's statements were obviously very individual from you, perhaps because of the documents you had prepared for the speech. Results of research change our everyday lives. That's undisputed. Buses run with old oil, the "spaceship Enterprise" seems to be a reality – and which of us can still imagine an office without computer technology today? Nevertheless, the Austrians are skeptical of concepts such as science, research, technology. And precisely for this, Mr Spindelegger, to create a more technological and research-loving climate in our society, we need advertising, also advertising from the highest point of view. I think that is the reason, the background to such actions and activities, and it would be good for all of us to contribute to creating a really more research-loving climate in our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This scepticism of the people of Austria is understandable because they are often faced with the negative effects of research. Mrs Petrovic referred to a subject which, I believe, is worthy of discussion, but it did not address Mr Novotny in the way she interpreted it. The social impact of research on the workplace is also one of the points why Austrians are skeptical about this issue. It is therefore important to examine the type of science and research that actually creates and secures jobs. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: The trade union is opposed to new technologies and a good research climate!]] One side of research and technology knows a lot of workers – Mr Niederwieser, the example of Semperit – when research is carried out in other countries and employees in Austria, so to speak, only work on an extended workbench, which is lockable and lockable at any time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! A so-called union representing the interests of companies should not at all speak on this issue, but it should leave the comfort of those who work with workers on the spot every day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In connection with research, for example, I think of the Graz company Paar, which is known in medical technology, which at the time has produced research results that many called toys, and today it has finally taken a foothold in space technology. Or an example, which is also reality – and I think, in this regard we are all required –: A spruce is beaten in the Styria – the Styria is a wood-rich country. She then comes to Italy, where she is roughly processed. Then she goes to Holland, where she is refined and finely cut. In Denmark it is bonded, or plates are made, and in Italy furniture is made from it, which we then finally import back to Austria. We in Styria employ around 50,000 people in the wood industry, starting with the forest worker and reaching out to employees in the window industry to give an example. Research and research, for example in the field of design, could create a further 1 000 to 2,000 jobs in the wood industry. The environmental and innovation centre in Judenburg, the Wood Design Institute of Joanneum Research, manages to bring value added to Austria through research in conjunction with the economy. And that is a point of interest if we want to create jobs here, namely jobs through research. The centres of competence, the introduction of research to small and medium-sized enterprises, as they have been addressed here by the Federal Minister One, are particularly important for the Austrian operating structure. Of course, this also requires highly qualified training, which also contributes to job security – this also applies to women, Mr. Minister, who are still underrepresented in research. In order to improve the representation of women in the field of research, all those responsible have to participate, including the economy, so that women in these areas will also have the opportunity in future to obtain a career bonus that will ensure work and jobs in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5106	I do not have any further words within the current hour. The current hour is therefore over. Thank you, Minister of State. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5128	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5532	In addition, I would like to point out that the following paper has been received: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Slovak Republic on the amendment of the Agreement on the arrangements for the crossing of the railways of 22 December 1990 September 1962, as amended by the Agreement of 3 September 1962. ==References====External links== ==References== January 1994 (1654 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. Is there any objection? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5562	I declare that the Blackenberg and Comrades have asked for the written Question No 5943/J by Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Comrades to be addressed to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on Agenda 2000 before entering the agenda for today's meeting. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5587	I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Peter asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the request 421/A by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades concerning the renewal of the holiday law until the 19th century. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and In this context, there is also the demand for § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this subject. In view of the fact that a urgent request has already been made, this short debate will be held following the negotiations on the urgent request. The vote on the request for a deadline will be taken immediately following the debate on the request for a deadline. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5617	The next point is that I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 1 to 3, 5 and 6, 7 and 8, 9 and 10, 12 and 13, 15 to 17 and 18 to 23 of today's agenda. Is there any objection? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5641	We are now going into the agenda. In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. On this proposal, the National Council is to be found and I therefore ask: Is there any vote against this proposal? - That's not the case. We then decided unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report (III-172 of the Supplements) by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the social situation 1997 (1658 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1524 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Organization of the Land Exporting Countries on Social Security (1661 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5691	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Does anyone want a report? This is not the case. That is why we are going into the list of speakers. First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5721	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the report on the social situation of 1997 and I would like to thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, and your officials who have drawn up this report, as well as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for the fact that we have all been provided with a data material which is extensive and which has not been eroded by some unpleasant issues relating to it. This reference material from the social and health sectors is an official source provided by the Republic of Austria and can therefore serve as a reference work, but also as a basis for future considerations and calculations. I would like to say that this social report is marked by the significant increase in income from property and enterprise in Austria in 1997, while the share of income from net income has continued to decline. The net wage ratio in 1997 was only 45.9%, while in 1980 it was still at 54.3 percent. It must therefore be said clearly and clearly that among the socialist governments in Europe a trend is becoming more and more apparent that socialist governments in Europe are obviously unable to guarantee wage earners a corresponding share of total income, while other incomes that the social democrats are always heavily fighting, such as those of shares and more, disproportionately. Ladies and gentlemen! I also think it is worth noting that, similar to the 1996 report on the social situation, in which the figures from the Central Statistical Office are already available during the debate - the total number of jobs - that is, those which are referred to as jobs in the country, i.e. those with actual working people, and not employment programmes of the labour market service or short-time training, whose participants are often included in these figures, remains at 2 843 080. So the number of 3 056 000 is to clean up all those I have just mentioned. This means that the number of more than 3 million employees in this country, which also takes the Austrian trade unions and the trade unions as the basis and also provides a basis for the jubilation of government reports, must be revised significantly downwards if only the number of employees actually considered as such in the Austrian population is used. Mrs. Federal Minister! It must also be said that what you have correctly quoted in your APA reports for the social sector, namely social security with about 60 per cent of the transfer services for the lower four deciles, is unfortunately re-establishing in the appropriate form in the health field. If in the health sector, for example, transfers in the eighth decile of the income group with more than 10 per cent and even in the tenth decile of the income group are still significantly higher by 10 per cent than those of the first and second deciles in this area, it is clear that the service providers clearly recover from the state what is being compensated for in the social field over the health sector and the services there. I refer to the comparable statistics and the health figures for the eighth and tenth Decils mentioned here, as I have mentioned, and the other areas. It is also necessary to point out clearly and clearly what is on page 13 of your report – I quote literally here: "The effects of European social policy have become clearly visible in Austria: The adaptation to the European social acquis has led to a significant increase in social levels in key areas, particularly labour rights." For decades, since the establishment of a socialist government in 1971, Austrian workers have been preoccupied with the fact that Austria is a social show country. Now you must also admit in your own report that this is not the case, but that it is only through European enlargement that a clear boost has been made, particularly in this important area of labour law – and here I am thinking again of the situations in hospitals and their legal effects – which has also made Austria Europe mature for workers. The following can also be found for the disabled: Considering the different legal situations for the public sector and the free market economy with about 63 per cent employment rate for disabled people in the private sector and 80 per cent in the federal government and correcting them, it is concluded that in 1997 12 per cent of the federal government's claim was reduced. You know that at that time the quotas were 25/32 and not the same as in 2000 were valid 25/25. The share of disabled workers in the state sector is only marginally higher at 64 percent than in the private market economy, where it is 63 percent. All these data are in your own report and can easily be read from it. I therefore believe that, as a whole, it can be said that the social situation in 1997 was not rosy that the social situation for the elderly and for women and the income difference between women and men from 1967 to today has not improved. If one also considers the present tax reform programme, after which the socially weak will receive 3 s per day after your own figures, but the socially unnecessarily unnecessarily needy 20 s per day, then I dare to doubt whether this is actually a real relief of the socially weak or not, on the contrary, a continuation of the social differences. I ask you to do the calculations myself. In your tax reform, you have completely forgotten to reduce the additional wage costs in the appropriate form. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I believe that there has been nothing better for the main groups in the labour market in Austria from 1997 to today. Granted, there has been a great deal of progress among young people, but women and older workers are still those who have to pay the price of the missing social and economic policies of this government.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5804	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the debate. Mrs Reitsamer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the Social Report today, it is a pleasure for me to discuss it in March. In recent years, we have always discussed the social reports only in June. This, as I mean, is a step towards more up-to-date. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Federal Minister and the officials of her department. The social report will be better from year to year. He is an excellent reference work and really essential for every social politician. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] However, we were also able to see through a uniform EU-wide audit that the reliability of Austrian social benefits is very good. After that, more than 60 percent of social benefits account for the lowest three-incomes and only 7 percent for the top three. Ladies and gentlemen! Over half of the social transfers go to pensioners' households, and with the lower incomes of pensioners' households, the replacement rate is more than 90 percent. In this context, I would like to highlight our really good compensation system, which can be seen as a need-oriented minimum guarantee for the elderly. In the case of the employment budgets, the figures show the target accuracy, but I do not want to go further on it for reasons of time. Ladies and gentlemen! Family benefits – which are mainly not income-dependent – account for more than half of the lowest three incomes. This gives a special light to the current debate on "carry money for all" and I believe that it is a very clear and clear rejection of the principle of casting cannons, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The development of the labour market is, of course, a drop in advertising. The average unemployment rate has increased by 3 000. We can't rest assured that at the same time the number of self-employed persons has increased by 8,000. The Committee has already mentioned that the trend change would not have worked in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! The trend change was presented in January 1999 and is likely to be a result of what is to be read in this Social Report. One cannot demand the operation in March if one at the same time knows what major problems we had due to the extreme winter conditions especially in the construction industry. I am also concerned about the fact that I would like to move my social services into a new office, and I am going to have to refer to this office house in August 1999, and it has not even begun construction because the building pit is still in the snow. That is what I would like to say. You have to stick to reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it should not be forgotten that the number of part-time workers has increased by 5 per cent in the context of the increase in employment. 30 percent of women work part-time, and it is clear that these women are also at a disadvantage in terms of their age insurance. The number of minor employees has increased by 11 percent, of which 73 percent are women at all. I expect that the new regulation, which we have decided on, namely service providers' obligation to provide social security in the event of minor employment, will perhaps show a very clear relaxation as early as next year. As far as the number of minor employees is concerned, what makes me very concerned is that social and health services are in the forefront. 12 500 women and 1 400 men work slightly in this area, and that is really unworthy given the demands that are made on these people. In this area, one could get through much more strongly – I note that if I look at the Article 15a agreements on the Federal Carers' Money Act and the agreements of the countries with the individual social services – and thus lead to a relaxation of the situation. There is a need for action in the countries, ladies and gentlemen. In 1997, out of 158,100 minor employees, 65,200 had no other insurance relationship, and for these workers, the new scheme, which is already in force, will bring enormous relaxation. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we can also note from the Social Report that more than 400 million overtime has been done. This, I must say, is covered by the finding that we do not have enough work, but that it is unfairly distributed. Despite the tendency to flexibility, the number of overtimes is continuing to rise. I think that more hours are not included in part-time workers, which is logically not to impose on part-time workers. I am also concerned that the average number of overtime hours is also one of the highest in the social and health sectors, and that, despite the high demands already mentioned on the staff. Ladies and gentlemen! Overtime is generally a fixed calculation, an income component for many workers. Nevertheless, I dare say, they are much more attractive to the service providers, because they are cheaper than an additional job, and with this the employees are more and more under pressure in the stressed labour market situation. I would also like to say that, in my opinion, the distributed federal enterprises provide a negative example. In the case of train and post, up to ten hours of overtime per person per week, on the other hand, people are "disposing" of early retirement with the help of social plans. That can't work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] – No artificial excitement, I have spoken of distributed farms! - Yes, take it easy! [[Abg. Gaugg: Inconceivable!]] I would like to deal with the risk of poverty. I am going to save the time that I am now going to take over my speaking time in my next speech, Mr President. 13 per cent of the population live below the known income limits – but here there is uncertainty in wealth and maintenance – and 5.2 per cent applies to one of three poverty indicators. The main concerns are single-parents. This is where the maintenance issues and the different income concept play a particularly important role, ladies and gentlemen. Maintenance is not equivalent to a pension income and so on. With regard to the multi-child families, I have to say the following – that is where I come back to the demand for "carnation money for all" –: It has failed, after all, to give the single-parents a reintroduction of the karenz money and to provide an additional service for those families who need it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I wish that we would finally prevail. A working group in the Federal Ministry deals with poverty and its impact. The result will certainly include some good proposals. But, as I said, a basic condition is the definition of the concept of income – I say that again – because it can also be derived from it, which is, for example, the reasonable cost of housing. I give you an example of the fact that poverty is not the same as poverty. I know a 70-year-old lady who has a three-storey villa on the Wolfgangsee lake and an apartment, but is still very poor because she can't get rid of it, has no own income and no independent pension, because she came from a good house and believed she wouldn't need it. But she wants to get the possession she has for her grandchildren. It is therefore crucial that all people have access to labour income, and this results in an independent pension scheme. All that women bring back to the herd – the tendencies are currently going in this direction – is counterproductive from my point of view. The employment potential in the social professions is repeatedly being addressed, so I would like to address the care allowance very briefly. According to expert estimates, 5 percent of the population is in need of care, 0.5 percent of which are covered by institutional care. A doubling – an expert in the board speaks of a basic public funding – would bring 8,500 jobs. For basic funding, unless it was said that this would be a zero-sum game, one would use the care money more efficiently – I can say quite honestly – because the need is given. Therefore, 12 percent of care providers do not use social services because of the lack of regional services. But 16 percent, ladies and gentlemen, claim that social services are too expensive. I can't understand that, because a care payer in Salzburg pays only 50 s of his care allowance for an hour of a mobile assistance service – I can present you with very interesting calculations. I assume that these statements are rather expressions by relatives and not by directly concerned ones. The use of mobile services now depends on the classification, the total income and the regional offer. As far as the regional offer is concerned, we still have a great deal to do. It is therefore still possible to create jobs. I would also like to say to the classification that there have been over 97 000 new or increase requests in 1997, of which 4 946 have been filed. 4 538 procedures have already been decided: 13 percent substitutions, 38 percent comparisons. This is contrary to Mr Meisinger's comments made in the Committee, to the differences in the classification of private persons and in the home community. A total of 80 percent of the caregivers are in family care. 23.8 percent of all nurses work side-by-side, 41.5 percent of them receive their own pension, but 29.6 percent, ladies and gentlemen, do not have their own pension insurance! In the past, we have also created the opportunity for someone who has a family in the care allowance level 5 to 7 to come to their own insurance. In the case of social security, another sentence: 99 percent are in social health insurance; 5.1 million people are contributory, but 2.7 million are insured. And when we talk about family policy in Austria, we should not hide this essential pillar here. – I have to end my speech now, unfortunately, because I am already admonished by all sides.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5900	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e5922	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer, this social report may be a good reference work, but what I think is very thoughtful, especially from the point of view of women, is that the situation of those concerned – I mean women in particular – has indeed not improved in any way for years in any area. Women continue to be significantly disadvantaged in all social areas, ranging from the impact of unemployment to the level of income, the rate of employment to pensions. Discriminations in all these areas are simply continued consistently. Mr Reitsamer has worked very much with statistical material here today, and I would like to add a few very specific figures: In the case of men, the unemployment rate is about stagnant, but in the case of women it increases significantly. Women are much longer unemployed. At present, some 93,000 women are already unemployed for more than six months, and we know how little the opportunities are, in particular, for these women to get back into work. Women, of course, also receive a significantly lower unemployment benefit – after all, there is a difference of about 2 400 S. The payment of 60 per cent of all unemployed women is even below the compensatory allowance rate. The income situation and the differences in income between men and women are almost necessary in this context. There is consistently a difference of at least one third. I know that in this context I would like to point out and say: This is also due to the fact that women often pursue part-time jobs. - That's right. But even if you use the adjusted figures for the comparison, this difference is blatant. The concrete figures of only two categories of income: The proportion of women in the population of between 10 000 and 15 000 s – the income for full-time work – is 60 percent, that of men at 40 percent. In this case, the women really have the greater share – "except for" I would like to say. With an income of about the maximum basis of assessment, at 40,000 S to 50,000 S – full acquisition – the proportion of women is only 15 percent, while men represent 85 percent of this income group. In the case of monthly income above, that is, even higher, the proportion of women is no longer statistically tangible at all! This income discrimination is independent of the educational level. If, as the highest level of education, we take a higher vocational school, the average income for men is 36 000 S, and for women at 25 000 S. We can compare and observe this at all levels, in the case of graduates of secondary schools, but also in the case of graduates. In this field, women earn 19 000 S – always in full acquisition, this is important because otherwise the argumentation goes in a different direction – but men earn 25 600 S. While the overall employment rate of women is still in the EU's average, the trend is slightly declining. The fact that we are below the average in relation to comparable countries does not really make us happy. In the full acquisition group, the number of women aged 25 to 44 is only 27 percent. Mrs. Minister! There has also been no change in pensions. The difference is still around 6 000 pp. 72 percent of women are women with compensation allowances. Women must already have two pensions to arrive at about the average height of a male pension. Many other figures would be added to show where women are much worse off in their social situation than men. What really frustrates me is: We do not take a step further on all essential issues that could improve the situation of women. We are not a step further with regard to the independent social security of women. It is consistent with the co-insurance principle as a family policy measure – at the expense of women of course. We are no longer in relation to an independent pension for women or a minimum pension. We are no further in re-evaluation of work in order to reduce the blatant differences in income even at the same level of education in any form. We have not gone further in relation to the educational offensive. Madam Minister, I would remind you that we have already talked about the labour market policy on the occasion of the urgent needs of the Liberals to the AMS. Overall, the number of educational projects for women is down, as the AMS consistently starves successful women's projects. We have not gone further in relation to gender-conscious co-duction – this is not the case now. Their place of business – in order to counteract this segmentation of the labour market in well-paid male and poorly paid women's work. We are still no longer in relation to a new law on equal treatment, because discrimination against women on the labour market is simply omnipresent. We have not really gone on with regard to the karenz period. Although there is still the media exchange, there is no serious discussion here in Parliament. There is no flexibilization that would allow men to take advantage of the time of their leave. There are no approaches to be able to divide the time between man and woman when working time is reduced. We have not taken any further step towards the distribution of unpaid care tasks between men and women. Although there is the 600 million schilling for childcare facilities, new approaches are missing. We have made enough proposals in the past, from tax deductibility from child care costs to tax preference in setting up an farm kindergarten. Another point would, of course, be – that would also be important for the social situation of children – the income-dependent family allowance. In this context, however, we have only encountered deaf ears. In view of this social report, you, Mrs Minister, should also take a clear step towards our proposal for basic liberal security. We've only heard promises for women in the past. There has been no progress, there is still the large-scale blockade. And next year, Mrs Minister – I almost fear that – we will have a nice reference work again, but I do not really expect an improvement for women if the measures that have long been to be taken in the same slowness, I would almost say, will be done.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6003	The next speaker is Mrs Ridi Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6024	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to express my thanks to the ÖVP for the staff of the Ministry who have prepared the report on the social situation. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] The report is a manual, a subject-matter, it contains valuable background information for social security, for social justice, yes for a policy for future challenges. The report also confirms that the social policy debate in key areas such as employment, equal opportunities, the development of social dialogue and the future of social security systems has been further and positively shaped. An important, if not the most important, chapter is poverty, the level of risk of poverty in Austria. About 1.1 million people, 13 percent of the population, are affected by potential risk of poverty in Austria. About 420 000 people or 5.2 percent of the population are considered to be actually poor. A comparison with 1994 shows that there are only minor changes in the level of risk, the extent, distribution and structure of poverty. That means it hasn't really changed its gravity. The area of the poor includes: the single-parent households, the single-earners – you also have to talk about them here – as well as the child-rich families. I think – as we believe from the ÖVP quite different from the SPÖ – that the demand on the part of the ÖVP for a karenz money for all is not a casting pot system, but a necessity for 10 percent of women who are not yet getting this money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not quite understand that in Graz, for example, students are now very likely to pay for this money, but at the federal level the SPÖ says that it is a casting pot system. 10 percent of women should continue to be excluded. - That's not right! The ÖVP is certainly on the right track in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This concerns primarily families with two or three children, if the woman has the courage to be a full-house woman. I would also like to mention the family package here – hotly fought by the ÖVP, by Martin Bartenstein; recently Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger wanted to know nothing about it. I am delighted, indeed amazed at the change of attitude within the SPÖ, and I am glad that Wolfgang Schüssel seems to have been able to convince Viktor climate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The newspaper inserates, which have been switched on today and also cost a lot, confirm this. Yes, it is also thanks to our top negotiator, Wolfgang Schüssel, that within the tax reform there is a guarantee of 12 billion schilling for the family package – a very important point! The Austrians will have to pay less on taxes due to tax reductions of 30 billion schilling in the future. This means that for the most part – the statistics show this – this amount will be spent on consumer goods and consequently on job-creating measures. Put to the point: An average family will now have about 1 800 S more per month. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on another point, the central point: Make a job. The sole of the valley on the apprentices market has gone through. At the end of December, the 125,000 apprentices in around 39,000 businesses were employed, thanking God for 3.2 percent more than in the previous year. The new professions, which still need to be supplemented, but also the work foundations have contributed positively to this. This means that there are successes in the field of youth employment. Unfortunately, however, the unemployment rate of those people over 50 years of age is increasing dramatically. Compared to the previous year, the unemployment rate rose by 4.3 percent over the 50 years. If you are over 45 years old, it's hard to find a job again. Women 35 years old sometimes already belong to the "old iron". We therefore need strategies to combat the unemployment of older workers. And in this context too, the ÖVP has to offer some strategies, for example the age part-time. The meaning of part-time work is to keep older people in employment and prevent terminations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] – Dear colleague Sophie Bauer! You know what that part-time age would mean for the West Styria region. We also advocate "job – 50 plus" to open up a further job opportunity for older workers affected by unemployment, and for the "handling new". The model is socially agreed in the ÖVP, and it is therefore only the SPÖ, which immediately after us has submitted its own request, whether there is an improvement for the workers. [[Calls of the Abg. Sophie Bauer as well as the liberals.]] - You'll all be a little nervous, great! – If I had such a laugh, I would laugh a little bit quieter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Redesign of the income curve, promotion of continuing training, no age limit on job registrations – all these are points that can be implemented and implemented and that there must be a common path and common strategies within the meaning of our people who need work in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6109	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Report is well done. Once again, we assure ourselves, and it's true. But, ladies and gentlemen, does this also mean that only because we have a social report with many facts, in which there is much, is social policy also good in this country? Is that a reason to calm us down, to assure us that everything is all right anyway? - Don't dwell! There have already been so many facts, Mrs Schaffenrath, that I am more concerned about the feeling and the fear that, despite the many facts in which there is talk of income inequality between men and women, which Mrs Schaffenrath has really explained in detail, nothing will change, despite the many facts put on the table here, as Mrs Schaffenrath has said. It has not changed for years, and I naturally ask myself on the occasion of such a debate on the social report: Is the debate on the social report also because nothing changes? I listened carefully to Mrs Reitsamer. It has also listed many facts, such as the overtime development of railways and mail, and has said that it does not agree. And on a call from the liberals: That's your business, she said: They're distributed. Mrs Reitsamer! Here I come to what policy should actually do, namely not to reject itself and say: This is nothing more for us than for us to do nothing more, but also to deal with the economic conditions that form and limit social policy to the highest degree. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the foreword to the Social Report, for example: "As a result of increased competition intensity, new business strategies and the networking potential of new information and communication technologies, various new forms of work have emerged in a relatively short period of time, which have brought growing social risks to those concerned and, of course, have an impact on the social security system." – Of course also impact! But how did these diverse new forms of business come about? Hasn't politics mixed? Has it not contributed to the fact that certain factors relevant to social security in that country have not been so immeasurably negatively affected? Is that not a point that should also play a role in an analysis in this social report? Shouldn't we deal with it? I take as an example Waagner-Biró; Mr. Graf has already brought it. At Waagner-Biró, hundreds of jobs have been reduced in recent months. Work promises made there against the employees on the occasion of the 1995 takeover – since we could already make the first political stop in the acquisition of Waagner-Biró by the Auricon, because it is not accidental that at that time a municipal company, a municipal bank, namely Bank Austria, has passed on a Mezzie Waagner-Biró to the Auricon, to which Mr Liaunig, Mr. Liaunig, is no longer valid. Because at that time it was still clear: Waagner-Biró is a well-functioning company, everything goes upward, and, of course, jobs will be preserved. At that time it was called by the Auricon management or Waagner-Biró. – Mr Edler nodds. Now we are faced with a situation in which it is obvious that an entrepreneur who has dissolved the reserves of this plant in the years before has limited the economic substance of this plant so that it no longer has to get over a contract crisis and to a large extent to block it. Politics and colleague Edler nod on this: There's nothing we can do, these are the conditions! What are we to do with an entrepreneur who wants to act like this? – This is the argument you hear in these days. The problem is that the entrepreneur – in this case Mr Liaunig – is doing very well, very well! And the problem is that in this social report there is nothing about the fact that some are getting better and better and others are getting worse or not so good that they can also somehow participate in this individual wealth and wealth growth, which single people can acquire. The data on net income and the net wage ratio have already been quoted. This is no reason to be satisfied here and to also support the social situation with the Social Report. In the balance sheets of this social report – and unfortunately not as clear as I would like it to be – many hundreds of thousands of victims are also victims of social development, an economic development that is not better accessible to us by means of dire figures. If it is clear that one only receives emergency aid if there is no income, and if one knows that the emergency aid workers receive on average only 6 000 s and more than 60 percent of the women receiving emergency aid have to receive under 6 000 s and live on this money, then one must ask: Wouldn't that really be enough, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party and of the Austrian People's Party, that you not only celebrate your tax reform – we will still have opportunity to talk about it – but also point out that there is an urgent need to do something? How to live in this country of 6 000 s? And it does not live hundreds of people or hundreds of women, but thousands, tens of thousands of them! Is that not a reason to have a debate on this and to look for measures, such as the concept of minimum security, basic security in this area, in order to improve these people? If we don't need to think about it, we can make it so easy and say: The risks are getting more and more, and politics is getting harder and harder? We can't do anything, we can't intervene! I don't want to make it that easy! And I'll come back to the colleague Reitsamer again. Because the sentence on the train and post was significant to me, Mrs. Colleague. If, as you have perfectly correctly noted, on the one hand, railway and post, which were state parades a few years ago, are those establishments where overtime heat is most advanced and where the pressure to overtime is most obvious, because the staff is scarce, and if on the other hand these companies operate personnel reduction, even with the help of early retirement, when colleagues from these companies are so to speak sent with state support to early retirement, then, Mr Hums, you should actually stand out here and recommend this system. But you don't! They do not do so because it has still been so that the trade union has sometimes been able to do so as a success. But for those concerned – and this is evident from some key data, including in relation to the problem of working time – the situation now looks different. I do not think we should make it so easy to refer only to the data in the social report, but sometimes to think about what is behind it. It is important not only to note that in Austria 11, 12, 13 percent of the population are at risk of poverty, but also to see which groups of people are vulnerable to poverty. And if only the much-contested Austrian social system partially produces these groups of people at risk of poverty – and I have tried to explain this with the data on emergency aid – then the situation is dramatic, then it is really time to intervene. But nothing happened in this relationship. And you can still knock on your shoulders so much, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that is not a certificate of success, and that still means that tens of thousands, especially women, but not just these, must live on money from which you cannot actually live. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, these key elements in the social report would be a devastating criticism of the government parties, because in Austria there is a relatively large amount of money – not excessive; I admit that already – spent on social benefits. And if you are so convinced that social benefits are correct, let us look at what has been produced in recent years with some of the measures you have put in the savings package. The very ones who needed it most urgently were taken away from the very ones who were deprived of benefits! And this is also found completely hidden and, of course, only dressed in sober numbers in this social report, for example in the development of net mass income. It doesn't look good at it at all! The other problem is that the other side, namely the good side, the butter side, the income and wealth situation in this social report cannot be represented at all because it does not seem to affect it. With regard to the situation of those who have high incomes from self-employed work, there is a large manco. One point I am still making, because I have also mentioned poverty with wealth, ladies and gentlemen, that which the countries have obviously not done in recent years. If one looks at not only the data on poverty development, but also the figures on social assistance, which in the volume of data are broken down relatively far behind, then it is noted that in 1999 we are discussing a social report on the year 1997 – which is still relatively early, I would like to acknowledge – and that we need to work with the data from 1995 on the country – which is not necessarily a criticism of the Social Ministry – on poverty in Austria. Now I come to the content of this data, because it is always said by the EIA and its mayors, who, in most cases, represent a very far-reaching social policy of the countries and the municipalities: That looks wonderful! We spend so much money on social assistance! – Mr Grossruck makes his call as ordered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Thank you, colleague Großruck! But maybe you should. You can also look at the numbers! Maybe you should look at the numbers going to what is actually being spent. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] With on the one hand increasing poverty is spent less on permanent support! This is a disgrace for the social policies of the countries, Mr Großruck! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: I don't know!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There would be an urgent need for action here, Mrs Sozialminister. And if, once again, you assure us that, in the discussions with the countries in the field of social assistance, there is actually nothing going on as far as the framework legislation is concerned, I expect a little more pressure on this question. It cannot be said that not only in the first social system, unemployment insurance, pension insurance, major deficits in terms of risk of poverty are present, but the second social system, social assistance, is completely failing in this area. A well-made social report alone is not enough. What we would need, ladies and gentlemen, would be a well-made and responsible social policy based on fair sharing, on fair sharing of working time and money, unlike what is happening now, which also insists that a European employment and social policy is necessary that social policy is not only necessary in Europe – and this is also noted in the report – but must also be provided by us with initiatives. That is why I think it is all the more regrettable that a request from the Greens, which is being debated in this context, has been negatively assessed by the Committee. A well-made social report alone is not enough. Finally, make a social policy, an economic policy that helps those who, according to this presentation in the Social Report, come under the wheels. And these are still hundreds of thousands, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6184	Mrs. Hostasch is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank you for your contributions to the debate so far, but also for the statements made in the Committee on Social Affairs, where recognised words have been made on this social report and my employees and I have been confirmed that a major basis for political work has been established. I have tried with my employees to give a very honest report on the social situation in Austria, a very comprehensive report, even though I know that of course more could be included in a report. However, I believe that a report should also be legible, give an overview and you know that we have provided additional information material or studies on all the chapters addressed in the report, which you can use for your political work. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that a report can not only be seen as a punctual annual compilation of a situation in a country but also in its long-term perspective. Nor should individual figures be taken out of the report on a point-by-point basis and interpreted politically. I therefore believe that it is very important to draw the right conclusions from this report and then make the right political decisions. I give the honourable Member 100 percent oil Age: This report is a collection of facts, of data, of figures. But there are people behind every number, people who are affected, people who are fates, our whole society, because the field of work, that is employment, health, social affairs, everyone in our country, and therefore everyone is addressed by this report and their concern is found in it. I believe that the importance of the networking of the chapters on work, social affairs and health is also evident. And when the social ratio has been addressed here, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is influenced by various factors: economic development, demographic factors, but not least by performance improvements and performance changes. And the social ratio also has in the longer term Comparison to be seen and not only punctually in one year. In Austria, we can refer to a relatively high social rate, i.e. good social ratio, and also to one that is constantly developing within a certain framework. With regard to the social ratio or the social budget, allow me to say with all clarity: We must make an offensive confession to the social budgets, to the health budgets. These are productive budgets, they mean not only the security of existence, the health care of our people, but they are also an engine for the economy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out and highlight a few of the data from this report – and I agree to speak briefly about the contributions made so far – that, in the face of all the shortcomings that we certainly have in our social affairs, we guarantee a high degree of confidence in social services and transfers for the population through our policies. And I would draw your attention to the fact that more than 60 per cent of all social benefits go to the bottom three incomes and 7 per cent to the top three. In concrete: The first to third income is 61 percent, the fourth to seventh 32 percent and the eighth to tenth only 7 percent of social benefits. I believe that this underlines very clearly that we have a clear orientation, in particular to assist the weaker in our society through social benefits and to allow them a equal opportunity to participate in society. It is also true that more than half of all social transfers are made to pensioners' households, and for the lower income groups in pensioners' households, the replacement rate of pension income is well above 90 percent. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With these data, we prove that we have effectively combated the risk of poverty, the threat of poverty, and in this respect, I believe we have taken the absolutely right path and continue to follow in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to refer very briefly to the comments here and, although Mr President-in-Office is not in the Chamber at the moment, I would like to point out that on page 93 of the report we have made a very clear reference to health-related benefits and that the conclusions of the honourable Member's head are that we have not designed our health system in accordance with need and that the system for the upper income groups is more health-care than for the lower ones, not in line with the facts. I would really like to ask you to take back the facts in the report. Allow me to point out, for a number of times, that, through our system of compulsory insurance in statutory health insurance and non-contributory insurance, we have taken the crucial step in health care and in the direction of comprehensive public health care – no matter what age, no matter where the sex is concerned, no matter what income. I believe that this is a system for which we must stand in the future and for which we must also fight. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If, as I have just mentioned, it is here that the expenditure on health is misdistributed, then I may briefly mention two percentage points, which are also important for your political argumentation: It accounts for 53 percent of health expenditure on the lowest four deciles and 19 percent on the top four deciles. So here the focus is clearly evident, as I believe, the right focus is the right one! If Mrs Schaffenrath refers very strongly to the situation of women in our society, I would like to stress that, from my point of view, there are still many disadvantages on the part of women in our society and that it is important to permanently eliminate these disadvantages. However, I would like to point out that it does not correspond to the facts that the female employment rate is falling in our country, but that, according to full-time equivalent, we have in Austria the highest employment rates of women within the European Union. And I am concerned with full-time equivalents and not with distorted representations where part-time, minor employment is equated with full employment. For, ladies and gentlemen, only these values have a real power of statement, and we should therefore be clearly based on these values in our political work. These are not only calculations from my department, but also an unwarranted economic research institute like the IHS has found this fact – perhaps believe You're more of him than I claim. It was also mentioned that we are not doing enough on the question of education, even it was claimed that the labour market service provided more hungry initiatives for women. Ladies and gentlemen! I must reject that too! The AMS supports far disproportionate women's initiatives, it supports – to a greater extent than the proportion of women unemployed reported – projects where women are qualified where they are re-integrated, and disproportionate means of active labour market policies are used for women to have the chance of reintegration and thus, if they are still in employment, they do not get into unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath]] These are our objectives, and we have a record budget of 11.1 billion schilling for active labour market policy this year – I would like to point it out with great pride – which benefits women to a greater extent than ever before. I ask you to support this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to refer to a few more important initiatives, which are of particular importance to women. They have addressed the question of care provision. There are studies by Professor Badelt, in which it is proved that our care provision law has a high degree of safety with regard to the benefit recipients, as regards those who are to receive assistance. Nevertheless, by means of a legal change, we have tried to ensure an independent pension for caregivers – usually women – who stop or interrupt their work in order to care for someone in need of care in the household, by ensuring that they have to pay the pension insurance contribution only for the employee's side for the duration of the care, thereby achieving the goal of receiving an independent pension at age. I think this was an important step, ladies and gentlemen. I should also like to tell you that, as a result of the last investigations, I am currently examining the extent to which we should extend this possibility of independent re-insurance only with the employee's pension contribution not only to care situations of the care level 5, 6 or 7, but also to the care level 4 because it is evident in practice that caregivers in the care phase 4 already need very comprehensive care. This would enable us to achieve a significant improvement in quality. I cannot promise you that we will succeed because, of course, the budgetary implications have to be taken into account, but I would like to tell you that my political intention is to make further progress on this issue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to make a few comments on the important discussion on poverty risk and poverty. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we have mercilessly included in this report the facts as they have been given in our country, but one should not dramatize more than the situation as such is serious. In addition, it should be noted that when we talk about the threat of poverty today, we are starting to look at quite different sizes, as far as the material side is concerned, the equipment of family households 10, 20 or more years ago, and we are also starting from quite different levels than was the case in the past. I believe that your support will also be needed to implement the efforts of my department so that we can continue to achieve success in the need-oriented minimum guarantee. You know that we have been able to take several steps in the past, for example, with the inclusion of all incomes from employment in the social security system – I would like to allow myself to share some data with you on the situation of small employees – but in addition, there is a real need for pressure on the individual states to support the efforts of the federal government to achieve uniform social assistance standards that help to avoid poverty risk, poverty situations. The federal government and the countries together should try to improve the quality of our social state. With all the criticisms, ladies and gentlemen, and with regard to all the outstanding deficits contained in this report, I would like to say self-confidently: It is precisely this social report that, with your support and your decision-making here in the House, we are making an excellent social policy, that we are developing our social state in an excellent way, that we are making excellent policies in the field of employment, in the social field, in the field of health – and you will not be able to make this claim for an excellent social policy, because we can prove how good we are! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: 300,000 unemployed!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since it was criticised that we did not refer to the new forms of work in the report, I should like to refer to the preface. It clearly states that we have also included this issue in our views. I would also like to say, because I have just referred to the subject of 'low-ranking employees', that we have provided intermediate benefits for other countries through a forward-looking model of the integration of minor employees into social security. I have recently discussed this issue with colleagues in Germany, because it has become equally important in Germany. The Germans envy us whether we have our regulations and regret that they have not done the same as we have in our labour and social law. I think we should also be proud if we can prove that we have found a better regulation than another State. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since I believe it might be interesting for you to obtain data on the situation of minor employees who have not previously been transported via the media, I would like to allow you to provide some data of this kind for your information. As of last year, 72 375 people had minor employment in Austria, 13 642 men and 58 733 women. Thus, there is also statistical evidence that minor employment is primarily a matter of women. Two or more minor jobs had 310 men and 3 371 women last year. In all, 30 990 men and 55 406 women had fewer jobs and additional insurance conditions – you know that we make small jobs possible in different situations. I think it is interesting to see what insurance conditions and what concerns can be identified in this context. The results are as follows: Pensioners – that is, already in pension In the case of pensioners –: 16 306 men and 27 426 women; Persons who already have their own pension: 9 880 men and 13,426 women; Persons entitled to unemployment or to unemployment insurance benefits: 4 445 men and 13 695 women; Persons who have a benefit from health insurance, i.e. sickness benefit or weekly benefit: 164 men and 478 women; Persons with several additional insurance conditions: 195 men and 381 women. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I therefore think it is interesting to filter out of the large block of more than 160 000 minor employees about what kind of problems it is about. It is only in this way that we can formulate and finally implement a needs-oriented, target-oriented and just social policy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think I can say that this report is an important guide to future social policy for you, but especially for my area. But he is also proof that in recent years we have made an excellent policy for the population of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6287	Mr Seidinger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the You wish a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6317	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! According to my previous speakers, it was expected that the opposition would deal very critically with each report, whether it be the social report, and that it would not be a good one. I believe, however, that the last opinion of the Federal Minister has shown that some facts indicate where it is going long and where the strengths and tasks in social policy lie bad. I think we should not look at the social report in isolation, but rather we must see it in terms of development in Austrian history. If one has pursued years of construction, then one can be proud of the benefits that the Republic provides in the social field. In addition, compared with the other EU countries, I have often had the opportunity to transport to Brussels, what is happening in Austria, and, vice versa, to record what we have to expect from there. If we look at the outcome of social security schemes, it can be seen that total expenditure of 407 billion Schilling is compared to total revenue of 408 billion Schilling. It should be noted that more than three quarters of the revenue comes from contributions from insured persons and that in 1997 the federal government had only around 16 percent to pay. As regards total expenditure, I would also like to note that 95 per cent of these have been provided for services and only 5 per cent have been used for other expenditures. Under the other effort, the administrative expenditure and the cost of reimbursement are absolutely low at 2.6 percent, as is otherwise hardly the case in any institution. We can also note that in Austria 5.1 million contributors are insured. I would rather not compare this relationship with one of the richest countries in overseas. Social expenditure accounts for 29.5 percent of gross domestic product, so it has increased. The social rate has increased to 29.7 percent since 1991. This makes Austria a little higher than the EU average. I cannot, as Mrs Bundesminister has said, follow on from the point of view that there is no certainty of expenditure. Because 60 percent of these benefits fall into the lower income deciles. For the older generation: More than half of the social transfers are paid to pensioners' households. The per capita income in pensioners' households is more than three quarters of that of professionals. This is, in my view, an impressive demonstration of the objective of standard of living, also in the sense of a statement made by the Federal Minister. The structure of social expenditure in Austria is undoubtedly different from that in the EU. In the EU, 44 percent are spent on pensions and 48 percent in Austria. Families benefit 8 per cent in the EU, while in Austria 11 per cent. Lower in Austria are only the expenditure on unemployment, which is 6 percent compared with 8% in the EU. But this also proves that in Austria we have as low an unemployment rate as hardly elsewhere. In pension insurance, 75 percent is obtained from contributions from insured persons. This means an increase of 3 per cent compared to 1996. In 1997, over 3 million people were insured for pensions. This has led to an increase of 22,600 insurance contracts and by 110,700 new recognitions. Now I come to an issue which I believe has been rightly highlighted in the debate today, namely that women have been left behind in their incomes and also in pension schemes. I do not need to mention that in recent decades there have been hardly any women in the profession. It is only in recent years that we have this large number of women in working life and thus also in insurance life. It is clear that there is a difference between women and men at the pension level, but it can also be found that 13 per cent of women have a further pension benefit and thus fall into the average of men's pensions. In this context, I would like to draw attention, Mrs Steibl, to the fact that we are not here at an election event of the ÖVP on which we wish to demonstrate for everyone that there is a karenz money. We do not share the view that this should be achieved. [[Abg. Steibl: These are quite legitimate demands...!]] The benefit is still an insurance benefit, Mrs Colleague, and she should remain such. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm ready for a restriction. If you meant there should be students in the city of Graz, then this would be covered by the fact that there are also opinions in our ranks that say: Carnation money for all those who need it! However, there are enough examples, Mrs Colleague, of which you know for yourself, which show that we cannot deal with them at all. As my speaking time has almost expired, I would just like to say the following: The Social Report is a reflection of how the Republic, the State, deals with politics with people in our country. If the EU looks full of envy at us and our solidarity, I think it has the opportunity to do so. We will continue to ensure that the right to health care and access for all citizens is guaranteed in the future. In addition, we do not want to introduce insurance obligations, but continue to remain with compulsory insurance, as we have so far had them. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6358	Mr Gaugg has now come to speak. Mr deputies, you have indicated a three-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6380	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you, Mrs. Federal Minister, seriously mean everything you say, then I'm worried, because then you are subject to the "DDR syndrome". I hear in your statements only the words "excellent", "future-oriented" and similar more. I would like to say to you: You're refusing reality here! If it is so that other EU countries look jealously to Austria, then this may apply to the ministers. But I think that the 300 000 unemployed in Austria will hardly look jealously at it. Rather, in reality Your system fails! [[Abg. Gradwell: Can you also say something except for the devil to paint on the wall?]] Your system of regulation from above has failed, and this is reflected in the Social Report. Only the 160 000 small employees are deducted from the employment statistics: Then we also have a minus record in employment! They manufacture unemployed people in a number that we haven't had for 45 years. We have the highest unemployment after 45 years, but the Minister of Social Affairs goes here and says "outstanding", "future-oriented" and similar more! Government mandates go out here and say: We must give older workers a chance. The Federal Chancellor employs a former Finance Minister, namely Ferdinand Lacina, as an employment officer. Now I'm wondering, For what? For yourself? – Because: Where do your initiatives take place? They spend a lot of money, and it may also be safeguarded by social security, but in essence your system has managed! They park 15,000 pupils in schools because they no longer live on the labour market. On the question of equal treatment, you have not gone by a single millimeter in recent years, but still discriminated against women at work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you are still here and defend a system that is ultimately a system of hopelessness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Today, salesmen who are over 30 years old talk about the difficulty of reemployment in surveys. Please, sit down with this! They cannot, after all, close their eyes to the fact that there is already a great lack of hope in getting attractive jobs on the labour market today. You and the ÖVP, with which you are in a coalition, have only made worsening provisions for workers in this country in recent years. They have not increased pensions to the extent necessary, and you have ultimately also to be responsible for the fact that, as the Social Report points out, employees in Austria have had an average income reduction of 2.4 percent. Minister! It would be necessary to have a proper and fair discussion. But stand down here and say: Everything we do is great – that reminds me of that Lord Honecker, who also thought until the last day of his political activity that it would have been all he did for the good of the state and the people. The opposite was the case! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can guarantee you one thing: You will also be taken into account in the forthcoming National Council elections that you will ultimately have to consider the social initiatives you are setting as failure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6460	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6481	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, you will give us your attention at the gallery! High house! Perhaps hardly any other subject concerns people, the parliamentarians employ as intensively as social policy. I think that our country is well-known for having a social policy of the highest quality, because we are constantly adapting to the needs and paying attention to and referring to the conditions. Nevertheless, a recent citizen survey by Professor Zapotocky has shown that citizens have a great desire for security and that a high proportion of citizens are concerned with the fear of the future. There are many reasons for this: serious changes in the economic sector, tougher competition, changes in the agricultural sector. In my view, these are questions that concern citizens every day. People are looking for orientation. They need clear economic and, above all, agricultural targets. There's no way past that. We need enforceable labour law and production conditions so that we can also stand in the tough competition of the world economy. Because a powerful social system needs work, needs employment, needs yield. I think that we must also be guided by the fact that we have the highest degree of target accuracy in the social field. We don't need to hide a comparison. 29.5 percent of gross domestic product is social benefits for us. Show me a country in Europe that exceeds this value – I don't know anyone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Tell me: What does the tax rate look like?]] No one will succeed in questioning this good balance, even you, even if you still make so many calls. Minister! This report has a high level of information. It is comprehensive, it is very, very important for us, and it shows how we understand it here to force a culture of meaningful interaction between generations, between the strong and the weak. A compliment to you for the work you have done with the government – we were very much involved with it, with Gottfried Feurstein and many other competitors – and a thank you to Your employees who have contributed in an excellent way! The report is generally positive. Nevertheless, we should not remove the question of employment policy. We have an employment of over 3 million people, but still a high and I think too high unemployment. That is what we are trying to do, and in this respect we have not been unsuccessful in recent times. The tax reform will refer to the two areas of "youth" and "older people" very clearly, and it will remedy them there. I'm convinced of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is why I am concerned about the income situation because it is very clear that most of the tax and contribution benefits come from the income of the labour force and that this share is rising. I therefore believe that the overall contribution burden should be considered. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, we have to take the following note: We urgently need a correction in this regard. So I am delighted by the Social Report: I am less pleased by a statement by the president of the Pensionist Association from Linz, Pöder. He said in his farewell speech that the pension system would be ill-pityed and deadened – in this he has a little right – that the state should hear mainly – and now Please go right! – access the farmers and the self-employed. – This is not a kind of social policy! This is not evidence of solidarity and understanding for the others. We can't need such statements, and they won't bring us on either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the pension sector is concerned, I would just like to point out that we have to rethink the tension relationship between life-time and life- expectancy and that, as I have to point out here, we need to adapt in the right of compensation. I am right for Mrs Reitsamer to say that, as she said here today, we have created certain conditions for women in the pension sector, not least by means of the Social Rights Amendment Act, which would be rethinkable. In conclusion: Mrs Minister, you too have referred to the poverty situation. You can see that from different directions. I am critical of the fact that the Social Report mentions the fact that, in particular, the multigenerational budgets, particularly in rural areas, are particularly affected and that families with several children are affected in particular. I therefore believe that Mr Steibl is right when she says that the pension scheme has been covered. A carnage money for all has from my point of view the charm of being bound in and not out of it. This is the objective of a social policy that respects solidarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The legal system has proved itself. We will continue to stick to compulsory insurance in the future, at the end of the day it is the best model. Our task is not only to enjoy these benefits, but our task is to face up to the challenges and adapt Austria's social policy to the new needs on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6541	Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6562	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The Social Report, which is now before the debate, is correct and informative. But he describes a social situation with which one cannot be satisfied. If we are satisfied with the report because it provides data and facts, we cannot be satisfied with the results of the social policy it reflects. Let me take a few points. The unemployment rate continues to rise, the trend is not broken. Unfortunately, from 1997 to 1999 there is a continuous trend. The increases in age unemployment in the present social report are more than worrying than worrying by plus 5.2 percent. Unemployment benefit has fallen over the same period. The median of monthly benefits has fallen, the level of average unemployment benefit has fallen. In other words, this social system seems to be reacting to the unemployed in the event of rising unemployment with declining payments. This cannot be described as a successful social policy! There is little comfort in the fact that the level of medium-term emergency aid payments has remained the same compared to 1996 – but at least. I would like to make it quite clear here once again: If the system reacts with increasing numbers of unemployed by reducing payments to the unemployed both in the media and in the middle, then fire is at the social policy roof! This means that we can only deal with this problem by starting to shorten the direct performance of those concerned. It is no wonder, therefore, that the findings subsequently reflect themselves in the poverty report and that in the end, the number of those who are threatened or already directly affected by poverty continues to rise. The fact that women are disproportionately represented within this group of persons – and the elderly women are still "over-proportional" in lack of independent pension insurance – that single parents are disproportionately affected, reflecting the other dilapidated state of social conditions. This is the price paid for prejudices, which leads to the equal treatment and equality of women – the price paid not by the government but by those concerned! There is the call for a karenz money for all – in the understanding of my immediate predecessor – actually white cynicism, if not taken into account the other income relationships. So we would welcome the fact that it would be necessary to introduce a social system which would react to falling incomes in an elastic way, which would avoid a minimum of existence regardless of what the woman or the man concerned has done before or is doing – so that we admit ourselves to a philosophy of basic security – so little do we understand that a "fortification" is used to make themselves popular rather than to prevent poverty. The fact that the national pension account continues to show all the structural distortions of our urgently needy reform pension system – namely the disproportionality between pensioners who were officials and other pensioners – is of course because you have not made a pension reform. I would therefore like to tell you this in the context of today's debate on the Social Report, because the 3. October will no longer be postponed. We would have liked to vote as soon as possible, but if it were the 3. October is supposed to be, then it's just that date. ==References== We hope that the people will respond to the fact that you are not making a social policy in de facto. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There you can have done yesterday by means of a supposed tax reform, what you think you can just do – it will not distract. In my view, this tax reform is a distraction from the social disaster. [[Abg. Koppler: But there are the workers concerned.]] Of course, you have made smaller incomes cut off a little better, but those who appear in the social report, namely the unemployed people – they do not pay taxes, and they will not have any tax reform in this sense – have to take note of falling figures. [[Abg. Koppler: Flirting measures are planned!]] Mr Koppler, you can try to deal with interlocutory calls, but the facts are clear. The people concerned know that too. The number of unemployed – if you do not have access – should at least be aware that these are people who still have the right to vote. It is not true that those who have to be pushed around or have lost their political rights. So think about whether this is not a distraction maneuver! That does not mean that a distraction maneuver is bad for itself. Only it is not a tax reform; that would be another construction site. In addition, net real income fell in 1997. It is the mirror of cold progression, which is kept completely unstained in the Social Report. Net real income fell by 3.8% in 1997 compared to 1996, which is the mirror of cold progression. That's why the peanuts are what you're doing now in the direction of cold progression. After all, at least you return a little; you are glad that you did not sit on it. But it is not a reform, and the trend that real incomes are falling will be only temporary. There you can show so many graphics about who benefits from it. As a matter of fact, every single date is probably correct, I don't doubt it at all – I don't want to calculate it – but at the overall result it doesn't change anything. Because with this tax reform you do not really slow down the trend, but only temporarily administer a painkilling agent. In other words, you just delayed the reform. This reform would also be socially important, because we will have to consider how to use the levers in the area of unemployment. That is, one will have to turn to labour costs. People don't deserve enough, but they still cost too much. This shear must be closed in order to avoid the steering effects of the labour market. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore mention it in the context of the debate on the Social Report: Of the tax reform you call it, I say it is none. It is the first invisible reform that took place in this country. It is similar to that of the emperor's new clothes – as a reform, I mean, because the measures are already visible. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The first not!]] Yes, it is not the first invisible reform – excuse, I take back – but another. It's the social effects that make me break my head. It was not from Jux and Tollery that it was generally demanded that some tax reform reduce labour costs and take a different approach. There are not esoterics who say that – as if it were done for tax aesthetics – but it has social reasons. The 1997 Social Report will show you these reasons once again, and the 1998 report will show you once again if we get it soon. That is why I do not think it will be possible to continue. Social assistance is completely in annoyance, and the fact that country competence is the problem should together make us ready to finally put on the table – talks with the federal states or countries – a draft federal social aid principle law! – because if the countries do not do so by refusing to talk, no one prevents the Federal Government from putting such a draft on the table and then taking talks about it. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] You will urgently need this for the next financial compensation! If you wait so long for the negotiations to begin on the next financial compensation, you will not be able to take a position on these questions, because you will not have shown any contours as you imagine such a federal social aid principle law. This will, of course, be financial compensation relevant. I would therefore like to ask you warmly: Don't let the heads of state hunt into the bockshorn! There is an urgent need for a debate on the harmonisation of access and so on, and so on. It is possible to think of any federalism, but if one does not unify the standards, then in the field of social policy the single economic area is ruined. It is also an element of the economic location, which social conditions are found where. If for these reasons it is necessary to move across federal borders, that is not good. I mean, that's the wrong mobility. That would be the poverty mobility we don't need! In conclusion, therefore, as a summary finding: The Social Report, after studying it, left a certain impression in my mind. It is a paper-cast inconsistency of the Federal Government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6642	The next speaker is Mr Hums. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6664	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Mr Kier and some opposition speakers have once again shown that there is obviously a occupational disease "syndrome oppositionensis" or so similar that one only sees negative. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] This social report really shows in many areas that Austria has a good social system; a good social system, even after the measures needed to consolidate budgets in 1995 and 1996, which were absolutely necessary – as we know – also at a time when the economy unfortunately did not grow as expected. At the same time, however, this report shows that further reforms have also been made in 1997. Every report, of course, presents a challenge for the social politicians, where it is found to be still weak to continue to eliminate it in the future. In view of the short term of my speech, I can only deal with an improvement; that is – and I would like to congratulate the Minister very warmly – the continuation of the effort which is certainly difficult to bring all incomes into social security. In this context, the rapid solution in the field of minor employees is a very special social concern for myself, but I believe that we must continue to lead all incomes into fair general social security. This process is, of course, not yet completed. However, I should like to remind you at this point how difficult it was to bring the opposition parties – and many others too – in the years 1995 and 1996 to the conclusion that they have at all recognized that, justly, all incomes must be included in social security up to the maximum basis of contributions, while at the same time giving them fair and fair social protection. At the time, we had to start compromise with the contract regulations. I have repeatedly explained that this is just one step because several steps were not possible. Many have guessed at the time that the whole project should be withdrawn. If we had done this – and I also thank Mr Feurstein for not withdrawing it – it would never have been initiated again. Who else, if not a Social Minister in the 60. Is it possible for journalists and, and, what is the case, those affected by this? – For this reason, I am glad that we have gone this way. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have carried out much of what the experts whom we commissioned in 1996 have later established, namely that the path should be continued. Another request: We have said that all incomes up to a certain income limit – including a working group – should be included as quickly as possible. This should also apply to pension areas which do not come from statutory social security, but which contain an equivalent pension scheme, at least equivalent, such as public service, railways and so on. If such pension schemes coincide with statutory social security schemes, the same will apply as in other multi-insurance schemes as soon as possible, perhaps during this legislative period, that contributions paid beyond the ceiling of the maximum contribution base will be refunded if desired. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Intercom!]] This is one of the steps to continue! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Does that apply to lawyers? I'll make a request today.]] It is necessary to be a little careful with applications. They have to be wiped out. We can only do what is necessary under time pressure here, but we cannot accept every request immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're not insured at all! Lawyers are not involved in pension insurance! That's 1 200 without a pension!]] There is a working group with highly qualified scientists working out this. My request: It should be done very quickly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A second point before my speaking time is over: health insurance. I am also pleased that we have been able to bring about consolidation. And in turn addressed to the liberals: In 1995 and 1996, you wanted to put our system down properly and explained that it could never be remedied again. We have, together with social security insurance, but also with the doctors' representatives and with the hospitals, found a system that covers the financial security of our health care. Progress continues! One more thing: We live longer and longer. Medical care can simply be more and more. The benefits of medical progress must continue to be available to all, without regard to income and age! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as by Mr Tichy-Schreder and Dr. Feurstein.]] But it will be necessary – and I would also like to say this at this point – for the appropriate resources to be spent. To promise that we could increasingly benefit from medical progress, we could get older, take more benefits, and that would no longer cost, that is not possible. . But I am of the opinion of Mr Donabauer that we also need to consider in the long term how to raise these funds, not only about contributions from health insurance, for example. Mrs. Federal Minister! Before I resigned as a Minister of Social Affairs, I did the following: With the then Minister of Finance, today's Chancellor, health insurance has already been discussed – and should not be forgotten in the longer term – that funds will also be raised from those areas that cause costs, such as tobacco tax, which flows into health insurance. There are a number of other measures. To Mr Donabauer: He complained that Mr Pöder had found that farmers and the self-employed were getting more grants. – I find it worthless: It is. In the long term, however, it will be necessary to consider whether the total number of service providers – and then analogous to all areas, including self-employed and farmers – is replaced by a value-added scheme. In this sense, Mrs. Federal Minister, I congratulate you and your employees very much on this report – not just how he is presented, but what he represents. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6760	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6781	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of people with disabilities takes up a lot of space in the social report, but has little content. And this content is only negative. Mrs. Minister! At the end of the year, they amended the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. With this amendment to the Disability Regulation you have also removed the over-fulfilment premium for companies. This means that those establishments who were willing to recruit disabled persons beyond their duty of employment will no longer do so in the future. I have only received a call last week when an entrepreneur told me that he will no longer hire disabled people and he will also separate himself from most of those disabled people who are now employed by him. He does not see it simply because he is willing to employ disabled people beyond the quota that he loses 60 000 s per year practically over night. I congratulate you, Mrs Minister, on the "success" that you have managed to drag some people out of the work process. Mrs. Minister! It has been discussed for years about the free purchase possibilities of federal, state and local authorities. It does nothing if they have to pay a compensation tax. They do not pay them at all, for covenant, lands and communities have budgets. These are only redistributed on the basis of financial resources being disbursed. You must be prepared, Mrs Minister, to abolish the possibility of free sale for the federal, regional and local authorities as a whole, and that the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities should employ people with disabilities. I will put forward a motion for a resolution calling on you to make appropriate preparations in the Federal Disability Act so that it is no longer possible for the federal, state and local authorities to buy themselves free from the obligation to set up disabled persons. It seems that far more than 40 000 disabled people are unemployed. Once again, if not more, so many are not classified as favoured disabled persons. 68 percent is the actual unemployment rate of disabled people. You haven't talked about this percentage for a long time! Mrs. Minister! You have tried to cover the unemployment of people with disabilities by renaming "protected workshops" to "integrated establishments". That's ridiculous! They know very well that this is never an integrative business. They know that 80 percent of those working in these protected workshops are disabled people. If your idea of integration is that there are 80 percent disabled and 20 percent disabled, you are wrong. They know that these 20 percent are non-inhibited people who sit in the top chief days. The disabled, however, work at the bottom of the flow band around 150, 200 or 380 S per month. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: That's not true!]] In my opinion, this is not the form of work sharing that people with disabilities want. If you still want to maintain your form of protected workshops by saying that the possibility is to be provided for those people who work there to be prepared for a profession outside the working world, I tell you that the permeability of those people who come out of these institutions is only 3%. And this permeability has fallen by 2% in the last two years. Mrs. Minister! Your social report also includes the area of "information and advice". Today, I have again made the test on the example – as I do it every year – and I wanted to know from the Federal Social Office or the Social Ministry how much a wheelchair of a certain type costs. From the Federal Social Office I got the information that no one should tell me. So that's the "open" customer reception you've addressed. If I only get information about technical details, so that a wheelchair has four wheels, then it would be like to compare that someone who wants to buy a car would get the information from the dealer that the steering wheel is on standard. Mrs. Minister! Under "customer information" and "open customer reception", disabled people imagine something completely different. Think about the field of resource consulting, which costs a lot of money and does not provide any information at all in the final effect! Your report also contains the guidelines of the National Action Plan on the employment of disabled people. All the points that appear in this National Action Plan concern things that you have deleted in recent years at the expense of disabled people. I therefore ask you: How do you suddenly take the money with the You're taking back these deletions now? – So much for the Social Report. One area I have set aside for the end is the provision of care. Mrs. Minister! There's no question: The care money in its current form represents a progress, but it still goes far too far. They know that the care allowance has not been increased for years. That is why I have tabled a request to request the valorization of the care allowance. People with disabilities are basically receiving less care money year after year, because of the lack of valorization. Another comment on the care allowance: That's where I want to talk to you, Mrs Reitsamer. You said in your debate contribution, in Salzburg, in this highly praised country, disabled people pay only 50 percent of the care allowance for the care hours. [[Abg. Rider: 50 S per hour from the care money!]] I have here the brochure "Care at home" from Salzburg with information, tips and addresses for people in need of care and their families. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] And according to this brochure, Mrs. Reitsamer, disabled people don't pay 50 S, but 50 S plus a holding of income. You can pay a maximum of 288 S for the hour, and you will not get 60 minutes for this hour, but only 34 minutes of care, because 26 minutes will be deducted as travel costs per hour. [[Abg. Ritsmer: I said: 50 s of the care money! That's where you have to listen, Mrs. Colleague.]] [[Abg. That's a fool!]] In addition, Mrs Reitsamer, each person concerned can only receive up to 100 hours of service per month. [[Abg. Rider: You don't want to understand! That's the reason!]] What's in your brochure, and what you said is like day and night. The people concerned could never afford to ask for a round-the-clock care at your clubs, even if they wanted to, because you only approve of the individual only 100 hours a month. [[Abg. Nicer: That's quite clear! If the care money were used accordingly, that would...! You don't understand! You don't want to understand!]] There comes a social worker who is so gracious and says that she can provide 100 hours of care. Don’t talk so big that relatives don’t take care of the caregivers! They themselves are not even able to care for those affected. Create First of all, you have an offer that can be financed for those affected and for whom you have enough staff! Then we'll talk! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's right, Mrs. Haidlmayr, Mrs. Reitsamer!]] But don't make the disabled and their relatives bad by constantly saying that these would put the care money in! – It is exactly the opposite: They rob disabled people of the little money they have.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6954	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Excuse me! They must read the text of both motions for resolutions. You did not do that; just the application text, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6970	The one motion for a resolution concerns the possibility of the free sale of federal, state and local authorities from the obligation to set up the disabled. The unemployment of disabled people in Austria is like I already...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e6988	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You do not need to read the introduction, just the application text. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7003	The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution concerns the increase in the tax on compensation, because the penalty payment of only 2 000 s per month will make no one disabled. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! If that happens, we have a chance that disabled people will be able to return to the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7077	The two motions for resolutions, which have just been read, have been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. It has once again reported to Mrs. Hostasch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7101	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, I would ask you, outside the official plenary session, to call me that Federal Social Office and also those partners who have not provided any information. I cannot accept that this room gives the impression that colleagues from the Federal Social Office do not carry out their duties and that, as a service provider for the insured, the disabled do not receive the information they are obliged to provide. If it was really the way you described it, Mrs Deputies, I should like to have the opportunity to follow this up. However, I cannot accept a flat-rate statement that information would in general not be provided, and I would ask you to understand it in the sense of my colleagues from the Federal Social Office!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7137	Mrs Gatterer has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7159	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I see that Mr Haidlmayr sees much more to do for the disabled. And I think that no one in social policy will tire out trying to do so. However, I would like to say that we must recognise that a great deal has been done or is happening for this group in recent times. In this context, I would just like to mention the anchoring provided for in the Constitution, and I would also like to point out the provision of care. At any rate, I am opposed to the accusation – I believe that I speak in your name too – that we would "abuse" the disabled. I would like to quote from the Social Report that 80 per cent of the disabled are in domestic care, that 80 per cent of the caregivers are women. I am convinced that many of these organizations are not taking advantage of but are exclusively cared for in the home sector. The statement that disabled people would be "repossessed" is a bad accusation, an accusation that we really cannot accept. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Some previous speakers have already made it: The Social Report is a very positive document for social politicians, because it gives a look together, a preview and, of course, highlights priorities. Last year it was the first time that the subject of poverty was discussed in detail. My colleague, Ridi Steibl, has already mentioned data and figures. We know that poverty is mostly female, that poverty is at home in children's-rich families, in families where there is only one worker, with single parents or unemployed. I am very glad that this social report has for the first time been drawn up, where social security has been given. Mrs Reitsamer and the Federal Minister have already referred to it. The question of meeting security is, as has been said, a very essential one, and this report shows for the first time how to assess the efficiency of the social transfer or who is actually supported. – colleagues have already said that half of the social benefits are paid to pensioners and that it is really the case that pensioners have guaranteed a safe evening in Austria today. I mean, this is really a great success of social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has also been pointed out that 60 percent of social transfers fall into the three lower incomes. I think this is also evidenced by the fact that social policy in Austria is really for social weakness. If you look at the lowest incomes, you can see that there is an average of 11 000 s of social support for these households, at least over 60 percent of total household income. I therefore believe that a great deal is really being done for those people who are vulnerable to poverty. Getan is also a lot for the families – and therefore I would like to thank you very much from this position from the Minister of Family Bartenstein. As early as 1997, the Social Report states that 51 percent of family benefits benefit from the three lower incomes. Family support in Austria is to be described as very good, and I think we can be very proud that the tax reform and the family package will make the support of families much stronger, that there is even more support and relief for families. 1.1 million people in Austria benefit not only from the 12 billion schilling of the family package, but also now from the tax reform. In this context, I would like to give two examples. First example: A family with three children under 12 years of age and with an income of about 30 000 s per month will now receive an additional income of 32 000 s per year. That is something you really need to stress, because that means a very excellent support for families. Second example, one, the woman deserves more: The mother deserves 40 000 S, the father 13 000 S, and this family has a child: This family will also receive an increase of 16 000 S per year by means of family allowance, child drop and tax reduction. Mrs. Minister! As a politician who is very important to women, I have now brought many positive examples, but of course it is already true that this social report, as well as by Mrs Schaffenrath, has carried out the data income, pensions, unemployment support for women – something that is income-dependent – already shows that there is a great mission to the Minister of Women, and also to you, Mrs Social Minister, so that, when we write the year 2000, figures can finally be published that show that women and men are actually equal in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7229	Mrs Haller is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7250	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the Committee of the Regions, of 11 December 1988, the Committee of the Regions adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States Six of them are on the agenda today, six have, so to speak, made it to the plenary. A small part was finished in the Committee, but the majority was postponed. A seven-hour non-working committee, Mr Feurstein. And this is the "problem-solving competence" of this government! This is proof of your "great problem-solving competence", which has been claimed today in connection with the forthcoming tax reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The 1997 report on the social situation, which is to be dealt with in the House today, is a well written report, not a question. This report is a good reference work, but it is a sure and honest proof of the failure of this government coalition, this socially democratically dominated government, which has repeatedly failed in its most recent policies and has no success. Take, for example, the wage rate, Mrs Bundesminister: Since 1976, i.e. for more than 20 years, the gross wage rate has been relatively constant, except for a change of a few tenths of points. But let us look at the adjusted net wage ratio – and that is what interests the citizens, the workers, the employees, because that is what the citizens have in their hands, so to speak, – and we note that it looks terrifying. As of 1976, while still at 57.4 percent, a continuous decline is recorded up to 48.2 percent in 1996. But the worst thing at all is that within a year, from 1996 to 1997, it has fallen by 2.3 per cent to 45.9 per cent! Are these the successes that Austrian social democracy can achieve for employees in Austria, for workers and employees? How do you justify that? – For example, with this tax reform announced by you as a big throw, which is now to come? But that's like a robbery to a citizen who has been completely robbed before, and who's returned 10 s later, is a great social achievement and success. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I continue with the own policies of social democracy, namely women. Women's income: not improved, the sheer to male incomes continues to disperse! Women's pensions: no change, no improvement in outlook! Women's unemployment: in relation to men's unemployment, there has been a considerable increase in unemployment! Where are the solutions to this, Mrs Federal Minister, where are the appropriate proposals? – The demands of women's popular desire were not at all reflected in this government's policy! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] That family policy – and I conclude – was never a domain of social democracy is quite clear, even though it is now otherwise documented in advertisements of your Federal Chancellor and Party Chairperson. However, we liberals have already called for a definition of poverty in Austria in 1992 and it has been available for two years. And a terrifying point is that children in Austria are having poverty. If you want to compensate for this with the forthcoming tax reform, I must say that the comparison with the robbery and the 10 s you are prepared to return is much more valid. For 20 years, the families have been unjustly taxed and now, with an anthems of praise, they return a fraction of what has been taken away from them. If this is the social policy of this government, I can only say that it has totally failed!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7301	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7322	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This report is certainly not satisfactory in some respects, especially in the development of incomes and the fact that the gap between women's incomes and men's incomes has continued. As one of those responsible for wage and salary policy in our country, which they can also contribute to, I should like to make a few comments on these two points. Because as simple as Mrs. Rauch-Kallat on 5 May. March in a press release entitled "In the income situation of women, the trade unions are guilty" cannot be done! In this issue it continues to say: "The trade unions are those who participate decisively in wage negotiations. And they also have the power to do more for women." – If it were so easy! As we are blamed for this, I have to clarify some positions. First of all, income development. The trade unions as a whole have been able to reach good conclusions across all sectors in recent years, all of which are very substantial or very much above the inflation rate. It is precisely because of the closures of the last or the last two years that we have been criticised that they are too high, they are irresponsible to ruin the economy and put jobs at risk. But I don't want to leave it out any more. Ladies and gentlemen! One of our main problems is the decline in wages. However, about one million employees change jobs, wages and salaries each year, which they receive from the new service provider, in 99 percent of the cases are lower than those in old employment. We can put figures on the table, according to which the difference between collective contractual minimum wages and actual Is wages has fallen in recent years, i.e. in exactly that period, Mrs. Federal Minister, in which the wage rate has also fallen. But those increases in wages that we can achieve can never be so high that this withdrawal of overpayments will be picked up. And now the difference between the income of women and that of men. There have been in Austria for many, many years, I have been allowed to say for decades, in no more single collective agreement – and we have a separate group of women's wage contracts – in the 600 collective agreements. They've all been abolished! And trade unions are always able to remove the last wage groups, in which many companies are wrongfully enlisting women, so that women can get a higher wage. [[Abg. Haller: How is the adjusted wage rate? Where's the union?]] In recent years, trade unions have been more active in solidarity in the interests of those with the lowest incomes. All the variants that exist have been played through, whether one-off amounts, minimum amounts, lower wage groups increase more and much more. But the trade unions can only agree on minimum hourly wages. It is for the employers, ladies and gentlemen, which is actually paid in the establishments. That is why I have missed – and it would have been good to do so – that Mrs Rauch-Kallat appeals to the representatives of her own party representing the economy in this House to ensure that the employers pay more to women, that is, more than just the collective agreement! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the last few days and weeks, we have heard some new proposals – I am going to be one of those who are enthusiastic about the newspapers today. The trade union wage policy was decentralized, it was transferred to the country level, it belonged to the individual incomes entrusted with it by individual trade unions. Some even go so far as to say: We do this in the individual businesses. – There has to be something behind it, ladies and gentlemen, because in fact, it could only lead to even lower wages. [[Abg. Rieß: Who says that? Who demanded that?]] In view of the situation in the metal industry or in the hotel and hospitality sector of 1997, when the trade union had to fight for months, and because of the fact that there are groups of professionals who, like hairdressers, have not received a wage increase since 1992 because employers are simply not willing to take a wage conclusion, it is clear that we will not go these ways! I should like to repeat my appeal to you, Mrs Bundesminister, once again: Create a modern, contemporary tool so that we can set collective agreements! We already have the possibility of articles of association, but the practice shows that they are no longer contemporary. And the employers can't be against statutes, because they themselves, as you can know in your ministry, are using the instrument of the statutes, because they only enforced a statute against us yesterday. The employers too have a very great interest in it. Perhaps, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, Mr Dr. Stummvoll, one could work together to innovation this, because employers must also have an interest in it. Since the time is too short, I would like to draw attention to the proposals made by you, Mr Peter, and by Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy, Mr Leitl, on 13 and 14. Monthly salary has come, not to enter at all. I have already told you that we can talk about it, but what we have at the moment must be secured. Because if we do not define it at the existing level, we will, if I go your way, in three or four years – and with me you can only discuss such a time frame – as soon as the 13th and 14ths. In terms of content will be soaked up, less have. You immediately accused that it was anti-performance and, and, and. Today's proposal by Mr Hochleitner, Mr von Siemens, that there should be only one-time amounts in the case of increases in wages, would result in income remaining the same for all time, and this would lead to further poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are the wishes which he can offer, but for which he will certainly not find a union that will agree with him on such a wage policy. Those to whom he has addressed it, namely the metallurgists, will certainly not agree with him. Finally, I would like to reject Mrs Rauch-Kallat's accusation. The trade unionists are certainly not guilty of this situation, they are doing what is possible anyway! She should address her appeals to the employers, that would be more effective!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7389	Mr Haigermoser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7411	Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of a Committee on Employment at EU level is required in Amendment 395/A (E). I would now like to focus on this. It is, in itself, a little too much of the honour for Mr Ollinger, but it is a request from Mr Ollinger, which we are also discussing in this agenda block. However, Mr Nürnberger – and this is also part of the overall subject of tax reform, which you celebrated yesterday – is the subject of the question. How did you keep it with the relief of the factor work? – Especially in this area you have done nothing at all! So, ladies and gentlemen, you were a good man. That is why it was a sound of shale which you, Mr Nürnberger, have just put into the plenary. For it is a fact that we are still at the top of Europe in the case of additional labour costs. Mr President, you have boldly complained that the additional wage costs are so high, but this tax reform would not have taken any action against them. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I'll report to that!]] Too little? – I wonder where something happened at all! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Aha! You don't know yet!]] It would be a good opportunity for the social partners – who have just been addressed by Mr Nürnberg – to do something in their own home. Today, Mr. Haupt has made a request to suspend the Chamber of Workers' Circumstances for over fifty years – at least 0.5 percent. This would reduce the additional wage costs by half a percentage point from now on, after decision-making. That would be a great help for more than 50 years. To chamber size 2: We shall, Mr President, tabled a stupid request to delete CU 2 at the age of 50 as well. Then you would have had a whole percentage point less with a blow in the extra wage costs without the tax bag being taxed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This would be a credible discharge policy on the part of the social partners. We have limited ourselves to over fifty years of age, because, if they become unemployed, they are only more difficult to communicate on the labour market. That would be real social policy! But they are obviously not willing to do something about it. I hope, however, that you will still jump over this obstacle, over your own shadow, because otherwise only to say to the tax reform: The mountain cried and a blind slug was born, ladies and gentlemen! The Augurs say that too. If you read today's newspapers carefully, you will find an article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten", in which Mr. Gerhard Steininger writes: "The original objective of the company", i.e. the tax reform, "has not been achieved by far. The order given by the government has stated:... discharge of the labour factor. The order was not fulfilled, which is why it is not honest to talk about a tax reform." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! So that means you haven't done your homework again. "Not enough, sit, Mr. Col. stupid," you should be called if this speaker's desk were a catechist and you were the student in the last row. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He's already sitting!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But You will experience this need in the first place. I do not want to be a prophet today, but you only need to listen to the people in order to know how your "activities" – under quotation marks – arrive. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few brief comments on the fact that the EU is being called into question in this motion for a resolution that the European Union should now do something. I have legitimate doubts that the EU can do something in its current state in terms of labour market policy, especially because it is already to be heard that Mrs Cresson is rowing up so that she can get the office of a Commissioner again. That Mrs. Cresson, ladies and gentlemen, who was particularly willing to do so, is – by the way – socialist, Social Democratic! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: This does not have much to do with the Social Report!]] – But I could also mention some conservatives. – Mrs Ritt Bjerregaard, for example, Social Democratic from Denmark, has only noticed that she has disappeared from a social housing in Copenhagen. As a reward she then became Commissioner in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. There, then, job security is certainly not well removed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The motto of the current EU "unharmed, concealed, banished!" Is more danger than help! Nevertheless, you are not prepared to do something at national level or set the right course. If, Mr President, you, in the brochure of the Chamber of Commerce, 'numbers, data, facts', are saying that, among other things, the local tax is responsible for this, I ask you why you have not suspended the municipal levy at least from the apprentices. You've only been working around with a bureaucratic story so you can say that you've done something anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! They are supposed to do nails with heads and not always work with double ground. This is the point in terms of job security in order to be offensive, especially in the economy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Much has already been said about new poverty, innovative, job-saving packages of measures. You have been on the test once again today, and it must be noted that you have actually only made lazy compromises. In any case, we will not do so with the liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7507	Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7529	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make two comments on the comments made by my previous speaker. On your last comment, why we have not changed the municipal tax, it is to be said, Mr Haigermoser, that this has quite a simple reason, namely that we believe that contracts must be respected. The municipal levy is part of the financial compensation, a contract between the federal, state and local authorities, and we adhere to contracts! [[Abg. Böhacker: That's why you have retroactively changed the tax laws!]] We keep them in place, and that is why we have not done anything about the community situation. This will be a topic of the next year's financial compensatory negotiations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But the wheels squeak properly! On the other hand, the "fearest" is a straight way out!]] Mr Haigermoser! On your second point, namely to lift CU 2 among the elderly, I would like to point out the following: I decided not to play young against old, Mr. Colleague. You tried! We acknowledge that the KU 2 will be abolished for young entrepreneurs, but I cannot take it up for young and old, because then it will only pay for the small and medium-sized enterprises, and that will certainly not work, Mr Haigermoser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the 1997 Social Report, and it is no surprise that the main chapter, most of the pages in this report, is devoted to labour market and employment policy. I believe that this takes account of the high, also political importance, of employment policy and labour market issues today, fortunately, both in Europe and in Austria. Nevertheless, it must be asked: Are these really primarily social issues? – I say: In fact, no, because it is primarily economic policy issues, and in the end, every social minister, and if he is still so discreet, can only contribute marginally to job security, of course in the field of job placement, in the field of qualification renewal, re-training, re-training and so on, all important tasks. Finally, however, it is up to economic policy to set the framework in such a way that it is attractive for entrepreneurs to create and invest jobs in this country. In this way, we have the cross-link to the tax reform, which my previous speakers have already mentioned in part. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out to all those who now – I say this quite consciously – and who claim that this was just a reflection and not the big throw, very openly and clearly: [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. May. Peter]] Mr Peter – you laugh like that – everyone dreams of the big throw, that is not a question at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] But I also say quite frankly to you that, despite all the innovative reform approaches that are also included, it does not matter to taxpayers and citizens whether this is a big or a small reform, he certainly wants a tax relief. And a tax reduction of 30 billion Schilling net would never be achieved, Mr Peter. I'll tell you that on your head! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Peter.]] A reduction in taxes by 30 billion schilling is an efficient tax policy! The discussion whether it is a big reform or a small reform is secondary. In any case, it is a massive tax relief! And if now an average family with two children has a net of 1,700 s per month, then this is not a reflection, but a massive increase in purchasing power in favour of the family, Mr. Peter. That is the policy to which we confess! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The Constitutional Court forced you!]] In other words, a tariff reduction of 17 billion schilling is a demand impulse that comes at the right time, since export dynamics are now being reduced by a small amount. It will improve the employment situation from the demand side. From the cost side, we have also sent out clear signals such as equity strengthening, young entrepreneurs promotion, investment in human capital. These are all innovative approaches to this tax reform, which will undoubtedly contribute to job security. [[Abg. May. Peter: Mr. Dr. stupid, that's embarrassing! That's really embarrassing!]] Mr Peter! I know, all over the world, it's the opposition's job to always criticize. You control your business perfectly. I just wonder who is more credible in the long term: those who lower taxes, or those who just talk around and constantly say it's too little, it's not the big throw. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Peter, that is the point. [[Abg. Böhacker: I take away 100 billion and give them back 12 billion! This is the government's policy!]] And I'm telling you, it's not a coincidence that you have to be so afraid of whether your club will be back in this house after the next election. [[Abg. Böhacker: I'll give you that!]] People have a fine sense of what is serious and what is unscrupulous, what is honest and what is dishonest! [[Abg. May. Peter: I'll give it back!]] I claim: A tax reform with a reduction in taxes by 30 billion schilling is a massive boost in terms of job security both on the demand side and on the supply side.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7693	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7714	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As always, the report on the social situation is very interesting and informative, absolutely necessary for every social politician and a pit. However, the data contained in it on the labour market, the income situation, the wage rate, the unemployment rate, the purchasing power and the impoverishment of the Austrian population show that a criticism of the social policy of the Austrian Federal Government is quite simply appropriate. The situation in the apprenticeship market is marked by the fact that training places have been purchased through budgetary expenditure. Although 1.8 billion schilling has been spent on 4,000 young people over the last two years, it has not succeeded in creating jobs for young people in the long term. In principle, nothing goes further on the topic of "relief of the factor labour". For two years already the discharge of the factor labour has been discussed, and a standstill has now taken place. Now there is a tax reform! The Federal Government – we are not in the Federal Government, we are in the opposition –, as now in the tax reform, announces something again and again, has come out in terms of remission of the factor labour zero and nothing! The increase in the unemployment rate is also continuing steadily. As of 1997, we have an unemployment rate of 7.1%, and it should be noted that women are a little more affected by unemployment than men, as are older workers and, in particular, workers. For example, I no longer find it contemporary that a worker over 35 years of age can no longer enter the public service. Of course, before implementing such a policy, it would be necessary to change the appropriate framework conditions over the wage scheme and so on. But there should be a possibility that experienced workers, especially workers, in public service, too, at an advanced age – for me, someone 35 or 40 years old is not yet an old person, but in the best years. Among the disabled there are 37 470 people without employment. There, too, the rate is rising; at present, it is 16 percent. In particular, the public service is characterised by its failure to fulfil its obligations of employment. In the twelve ministries there are 5 444 duties, 2 369 of them are not occupied, so virtually 40 percent of the jobs are not occupied! – Mrs Federal Minister! Every time I spoke about the disabled, I addressed the appeal to you, to the Ministries – your ministry does, of course, but others tend to do something – to exert pressure so that more and more disabled people are recruited. We have seen an increasing risk of poverty, the income situation in Austria is not the best. Overtime is not paid out more and more often, but, although getting up, is paid for by overtime breaks. Especially in the field of mail and rail, which have been distributed, employees are being reduced, but the number of overtime increases – on average, more than ten overtimes per week and employees are recorded in these companies. The employment rate fell from 70.5% in 1992 to 69.2% in 1997. In Austria, about 9 percent of the unemployed earn less than 12 000 S gross, which is quite simply not enough to live and die too much! Real income fell by 3.8%. This affects women in particular. They still earn 29 percent less than the men. And even the households of single parents and multiple-child families are not really well-suited to the current situation. The compatibility of work and family is complicated by the lack of or non-necessary childcare facilities and also affects family life. The 1997 report on the social situation clearly documents the impoverishment of the Austrian population by the previous savings packages and the withdrawal of social achievements.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7766	Mrs Pittermann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7788	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I thank the Federal Minister and her officials for this excellent, informative and clear report. Fortunately, in 1997 the number of unemployed persons in employment increased slightly. Unfortunately, there was also a slight increase in the unemployment rate. Women and over 50 years of age are more affected, whose unemployment is much longer. It is gratifying that the unemployment rate is the lowest in the European Union for all under 25 years with 6.7%. The majority of the unemployed have maximum compulsory education and training. The number of long-term unemployed was around 25 000 in 1980, more than seven times in 1997. The average monthly unemployment benefit was 8 900 s, the emergency aid was 7 300 p.m. Long-term unemployed people have fewer social contacts, are vulnerable to poverty and disease. It is therefore the declared aim of social-democratic human policies to avoid unemployment and to provide assistance to those concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a doctor, I see that uneducated workers without occupational protection have less access to sickness-related pensions, that temporary pensions are not extended, and thus over fifty years of ill health have to return to a labour market which she does not want! We read statistics. Outside of Parliament we experience the individual fate of people for whom the social network – still! – is too far-reaching. We will have to devote ourselves particularly to this group during the next legislative period and continue to promote the legal equality of workers and employees. As a result of the 1996 measures, social security accounts for positive results. Due to an ever older population and more medical possibilities, the surplus in health insurance will be difficult to keep. Remarkable is the decline in the duration of the illness and the reduction in the number of cases of illness due to concern for the workplace with possibly fatal effects on the health of those affected; I am thinking in particular of both heart and joint disease. The proportion of federal funds in pensions has decreased to 24.2 percent, although the retirement age has increased in the last 27 years in women from 77.7 to 81.2 years, in men from 76.2 to 78.6 years. The pensioners are fortunately not part of the vulnerable group – a great success of social policy! Private pension benefits with capital cover procedures could never guarantee this security. That is why, like Mr Seidinger, I am saying a clear yes to compulsory insurance and not to insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to statistics, more than 400 million overtimes are done in Austria. How many jobs can be created by reducing these overtime! Some of them are happy to be done, as too low basic gross income can only be achieved by overtime the desired standard of living. However, only 68 percent of overtime performanceers receive the statutory supplements always. In the public sector Service has increased the effort for overtime. – I would rather we had more jobs there. Social expenditure increased from 465 billion schilling in 1990 to 692 billion schilling in 1996 has doubled expenditure on unemployment benefits. This figure alone must encourage all politicians not to fight unemployment but unemployment and to create new jobs with united forces. Austria's social rate in 1995 was 29.7 percent higher than the EU average of 28.4 percent. The care allowance, one of the most important social benefits of the 1990s, is increasingly paid to poorer households. The further expansion of social services and nursing homes must be a priority given the increasing age of those affected and the increased incidence of dementia and brain performance disorders. In the last 18 years, the share of gross remuneration for self-employed workers has grown much less than profit and property income. This must be taken politically into account! Latest health care: The LKF system has shown positive effects. As far as quality is concerned, I point to studies that say: If the personnel key is too low, the overload is too high, then the quality decreases, as can be proved from nosocomial infections. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Our social and health care system is one of the best and most efficient in the world. Nevertheless, we Socialists are not yet the target of our wishes. And I wonder which mathematical notes some opposition politicians, who repeatedly demand a reduction in taxes and social charges, but at the same time the increase in social expenditure, have in their final certificates, because either they have no idea of the most primitive mathematical concepts, or they demand unscrupulous because they do not bear any responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists continue to work with all their strength to make this country even more humane, social, healthier and viable and to fight unemployment and poverty in the first place!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7877	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7898	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to Mrs Haidlmayr's statement, which has meant that the care allowance has been practically robbed of the disabled, and has been very shocked by the following speakers for this statement. I mean, maybe "robbing" has been an overstated expression, but on the other hand, I have to give her the right. You must not forget: Hardly was the care allowance decided and the first disbursement effected, with the other hand the disabled have already been taken away from this care again! First, the clubs, the homes and so on, where the disabled are accommodated, collected 20 or 30 percent of the care allowance. Then the benefits have become more expensive, for example the self-retaining of aids, for spa stays, for travel services and so on – always pointing out that there is the care allowance now. That means, once paid out and counted seven times – that was your policy with care provision! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That the disabled are therefore bitter, angry, you must see that! Mrs. Gatterer! They mean that 80 percent of the disabled are cared for by the parents and are cared for at home. – Yes, please, this is not a performance that you can write from the ÖVP or from the SPÖ on your flags! There must be the parents, the caretakers, but not you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You really have no reason to put it on your flags as a triumph that 80 percent of the disabled are cared for at home. What do you think it means for victims to care for an disabled person, first of all for financial victims – and that is not covered in any way by care - and second of personal victims?! – I really want to allow you to look at that! I speak on the basis of my own experience, I would also like to say this here. So, as I said, Do not praise something for which you cannot do anything at all, but see that the financial provision for the disabled is guaranteed! The first is that the countries have deleted the allowance for the disabled. You have reduced it to 500 S for the disabled! – Yes, how can a disabled person live with it?- Oh, my God! I just wanted to say that once on the speeches of my previous speakers. But I do not want to mention another subject today because you always boast that we have the best social system. Mrs Pittermann mentioned this again. However, there are areas that are really inadequately regulated, areas where there are great injustices, and this includes the distinction between accident victims. Indeed, it distinguishes between leisure accidents and accidents at work, and this really results in the gross injustices! While, for example, the accident victim immediately experiences medical, professional and social integration after an accident at work, one gets into the other and really leads to an optimal concentration of all the relief measures, the accident victim is exposed to a skill dispute and has to fight for his services. This is because the countries, the labour market service, pension insurance and health insurance are arguing about who is paying the costs. Everyone wants to clean themselves up so they just don't have to pay. And, accordingly, there are shortcomings in the supply. I think it is urgently necessary, Mrs Minister, that these injustices be eliminated in practice. It must also be said that it often depends only on the chance of someone having a work accident or a leisure accident, for if, for example, someone makes a detour and suffers an accident, then this accident is already counted as a leisure accident and no longer as an accident at work, and he already falls under the worse conditions. You shake your head, Mrs. Minister, but I'd like to tell you: The ARGE Rehabilitation or its President recently filed a petition to eliminate these injustices, which are related to the different treatment of the victims of the accident. And I would ask you to support this petition now, because it is in no way just to justify that victims of leisure accidents are treated worse!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7966	Mrs. Hostasch has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e7987	Mr President. High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé, I should like to invite you to make a clear statement of the legal situation and differences between victims of accidents and victims of accidents at work. I am afraid that you have wrong information and that you do not fully know the specific situation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I do!]] It would take the framework of this debate to discuss it now, but I believe that in a conversation we can clarify a great deal of what you have been talking about, explain it and present it objectively so that you know exactly what the situation is.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8049	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I would ask that the seats be taken for this purpose. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report in III-172 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to take note of the report to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. The principal and comrades concerning the abolition of the Chamber of Labour for more than 50 years of membership. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the prohibition of the possibility of free sale for the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and local authorities from the obligation to set up disabled persons. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the increase in the tax on compensation under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report in 1659. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. . I note that the report has been largely taken note of. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1524 of the Supplements. If you want to grant this approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – I note that approval is granted unilaterally. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1570 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which a Federal Act on measures to be taken in the event of the exclusion of the Vienna Stadtwerke and amending the General Social Security Act (1660 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8170	I'm calling 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Gaugg was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8200	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is today a draft law on the distribution of the city works in Vienna. - So far, so good. But I can only say how far and how this should happen: so far, so bad. We are not going to let go of the impression that there is a need for legislation on this matter. This impression is not least because – for my totally incomprehensible reasons – the federal government does not pay for 125 million schilling. Any private company seeking a different form of company, which thus changes assets, is obliged to pay taxes. But the city of Vienna and the government's representatives are in such a way that 125 million schillings do not have to be paid. What right do you have You over a three-digit million? What causes you to act in such a way as to be self-evident, while this exclusion does not even correspond to that in terms of privatisation? – privatisation would mean: The use of private capital and the same conditions as apply to all other companies in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to give some protection to the city works in Vienna, it is therefore necessary to adopt a law of its own. There will be a separate collective agreement for the employees of the Vienna Stadtwerke. - So far, so good. But why is that necessary at all? – Because the very hard-working employees of the Wiener Stadtwerke would otherwise fall under a much worse collective agreement, namely that of trade! This means, Mr ÖGB President, that it is not the case, as Mr Nürnberger says – that is, how great the achievements of the ÖGB were in the past – but that special measures must be taken to create their own collective agreements in order not to conjure up a worsening situation for employees! However, I think that this would not be necessary if you were able to agree for all Austrian workers working conditions that are modern. But because of fear of landing in the trade collective contract, you make your own collective contract. There is a supposedly so good, a highly prized local health fund for the employees in Austria. But it seems that you do not fully trust this, because you say we need our own company health insurance fund for this area. That's where I ask you: For what? Do you need employment for a few officials, or are the conditions in this new health insurance scheme better than those for the rest of the working population? The question of staff representation or works council election is also a somewhat peculiar one. First of all, we are extending the mandate until the next election. Apparently one has little confidence, one fears that the privatisation of the company and new elections may result in changes – ultimately also in the interest of the employees. I do not understand in this respect the attitude of the ÖVP at all, because every private enterprise takes away the money with joy, you agree. I don't want to know what happened under the ceiling again for a cow trade, just like at the time with the Austrian Bundesbahnen, when one agreed to the Bundesbahn-Betriebsgesetz, and then – see! – has also been nominated as Executive Director of the ÖVP. – This is your form of politics! The same is true of the city's works in Vienna. The Linzers, Salzburgers and Bregenzer Stadtwerke all had to supply their taxes, there was no need for legislation! They had to pay everything. There was also the idea of changing the form of company at the Klagenfurt Stadtwerke. With one of the reasons why one has not done so, the tax burden that would then have moved in an order of about 15 million schilling was. So they said, What should we do if it costs 15 million schilling? The fact that you are doing that you are part of the city's works in Vienna, that you are almost removing them from the Court of Auditors' view and from public control, is the only change. Because you already have 100 percent owners! The 100 percent ownership of the city of Vienna must be preserved! – This form of privatisation, ladies and gentlemen, especially the ÖVP, no one really understands anymore! They favour a company at the expense of the workers and the employer of the rest of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8271	Mrs Fuchs is also on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8293	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As an honourable Member of Vienna, I would like to express my opinion on this issue – contrary to what we have just heard from Mr Gaugg's Polish statements. I think that for us Vienna and for life in Vienna, the services of the Vienna City Works have always been part of it and are not to be thought away! [[Abg. Gaugg: Not even in the other cities, or how?! In Linz, in Salzburg, in Bregenz!]] – They allow us to talk today about the distribution of the Vienna urban works. - Good. They have always provided the most densely populated region of Austria with energy and transport services. [[Abg. Gaugg: Vienna is different! That's it!]] - Yeah, that's it. The business portfolio is very extensive – you certainly know – and ranges from services in the fields of energy, public transport and so on to funeral. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaugg.]] – In short, many areas of life are affected. The year 1999 is a very significant year for the city works in Vienna in two respects, especially historically significant. On the one hand, they celebrate the 50th anniversary and on the other hand they are now taking this great step towards the creation of an independent group of companies. With the conversion into a stock company, the Wiener Stadtwerke was given a market-adequate form of society that makes it possible to respond flexibly and quickly to the respective needs and customer needs. That was the main reason. This reform has become necessary in view of the liberalisation of energy markets within the European Union, and I think that is undisputed, all of them in this House. We simply need to take such developments into account and are also obliged to create conditions for us to face up to these challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, nothing can change about the objectives of the Vienna City Works, namely to offer the highest quality and economic services to customers. It will certainly not change, either, because this breakdown has been carefully prepared and carefully considered. Of course, there will not be any redundancies! This decision by the Vienna Municipal Council clearly shows that the service and remuneration status of the currently active colleagues remains unchanged. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Edler.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – This was particularly important to us social democrats, and this can be read everywhere. The current officials and officials remain servants of the municipality of Vienna. Only after a two-year transitional period will new recruiting employees be taken up directly by the capital companies and then subject to the provisions of the ASVG. During this transitional period, there is still the possibility of taking up staff by the city of Vienna under allocation to Wiener Stadtwerke AG or its subsidiaries. This solution has been achieved in agreement with the staff representatives and the trade union, and I would like to stress this particularly and clearly, because the safeguarding of the interests of the employees of the city of Vienna is very important to us social democrats! The Wiener Stadtwerke have so far been a guarantee for a well-functioning, highly developed infrastructure, which has made Vienna internationally attractive as an economic location. And I am convinced that the course for the future has been set correctly and that Vienna Stadtwerke Holding AG will also be among the most important industrial and service groups in the coming millennium! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8369	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8391	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can refer to the comments made by Mr Fuchs. Mrs. Colleague! It was very valuable that you have given us some additional information here, and I am glad that you, as the honourable Member of Vienna, are telling us what benefits you recognize for Vienna in this measure. We can discuss this even more closely. You've already been on the matter, but you haven't talked about this law. Because what you have said about the workforce is not contained in this law – the two-year period and so on – but it was interesting to hear that. I think you can discuss this elsewhere, perhaps in Vienna's municipal council. [[Abg. Fuchs: For information!]] - Yes, yes! I am also grateful for that. I would just like to say that in the preliminary work on this matter in the Committee on Social Affairs, something has been noticed which I do not wish to hide in this House either in plenary, namely that this law is undoubtedly a technical necessity in a certain sense in order to be able to do away with it at all. That's undisputed. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has therefore not disputed for a second that if something that was a Magistrate's department until the end of the day – the Vienna City Works were, in the final analysis, legal, a Magistrate's Department – it would be necessary to transform it into a capital company, even at the legislative level, to take a few accompanying measures. That is clear, I would like to put that out of dispute. I also think it is right that the city works in Vienna should be extended, because I hope that they will actually take place there for the first time, so that real cost points and so on will be better seen. One may then also see more clearly which areas within the Vienna city plants cross-subsidize which other areas, for example that the "Viennastrom" may be able to make cross-subsidisation for the transport companies because of its efficiency and the relatively high electricity prices in Vienna. If that is common sense and a majority in Vienna, that is the owner, then it will be reasonable. People will know, however, that if they turn on their toaster in the early days, they will pay part of the subway ticket. That can make sense, but it will become transparent for the first time, and that is something valuable. I emphasize that's something valuable. It is noteworthy, however, Mrs Fuchs, that you must give Vienna Stadtwerke Holding AG collective contractual capacity. That's remarkable. I do not want to go along with Mr Gaugg's remarks, but I would like to draw your attention to something else: So you break through the system of collective agreements and do something that, although has a certain charm, should actually be schizophrenic in your eyes. In fact, they allow Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG to conclude an operating agreement. And so that the operating agreement does not conflict with the existing collective contract law, you need to take this operating agreement into the rank of a collective contract. So they create collective contractual capacity for a company, and I find that remarkable. If you combine this with the two-year period, this is interesting. The Committee was not talking about this, but I took note with interest that for a period of two years nothing would change at all – nothing! I am not talking about the already existing staff, because I would still understand that you cannot risk that the workforce of transport companies will strike you across the board if you do not have the right to do so. I understand that, I totally understand! If you want the subway and tram to continue, you have to say that it would not be a good scenario if it were now to be stretched. So I understand that you left here, so to speak, before the strike threat. That's logical! The fact that you are taking a two-year leave is not quite that logical anymore. But that you are already building up collective contractual capacity, so that you can finally take up all the new employees you are taking up at the same conditions as the previous municipal staff, I do not think that makes sense anymore! Because if you are outlying, you need to create a modern, adequate, for transport companies, for the "Viennastrom", for gas plants, for body funeral et cetera suitable, reasonable, fair remuneration right. This is usually the employment relationship, which is usually embedded in other collective labour law standards, such as a collective contract, and it may be possible to enter into a business agreement. But that you, as it were, place the entire territory of Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG at work extraterritorial and transfer it to collective contractual capacity, that is not logical! This is a system break in collective labour law, which you do only because of that, so that nothing is changed there! That's where I ask you: Why Split If you want to continue with the same right to serve as the municipality has so far? Why? [[Abg. Edler: That's not right!]] With this, take any opportunity to reorganize anything that the community could not have done in any way, though slowly, carefully and sensitively, to the Board of Directors. Then you will only be more divided to take political control in the city of Vienna out of the urban works construction! Because then it is a society that can no longer be controlled, and there is exactly the same as before, only without any political, accompanying control, because these will then move you to the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Edler: That's not true! That's quite different!]] – But it doesn’t make a different sense! Apart from that breakup For no second, you will have to be head over the necessary industrial powers you need to do so, and just gas and electricity are quite different, one belonging to the commercial order and the other to the power management law, or the body burial is something else, and I am not talking about water at all. Interestingly, for example, this does not happen at all! There is also no district heating in it. There was already a GesmbH before, so it seems not to be necessary to mention it. So you will have a district heating daughter in the holding, which is not covered by collective contractual capacity. So I don't know if this is very system-compliant, but maybe you think: These poor dwarfs, who work in district heating, have already had a sluggish collective agreement – that is, among us, not a good collective agreement in district heating! – that can stay calm, we don’t change anything either! – So according to the motto: What we do not change about privileges here, we do not change discrimination there. – I don’t think that’s a good access either. – So many times to collective contractual capacity. I understand that it is practical. If I were a board of directors of a large group, and if the legislator would grant my group's collective contractual capacity on call, I would also say: That's fine, isn't it? Now I can negotiate directly, now I don't need to beat around with the annoying works councils when they come and perhaps want to have an operating agreement from me! Now I'll make it up to you right now! That's not good! You are destroying the collective labour law system, and you have done something I would not have expected. I wouldn't have thought you were sawing so much on your own ash once. Apart from being unjust and unfair. It is not really comparable to all other employees in other gas supply companies, it is not comparable to other EVUs, and I think that is bad! They therefore a prioritize the benchmarking of Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG. It will not be possible to compare how efficient they are because you make this law. - Good. You have to answer it politically, and we are going to suffocate it every time something like this appears. I come to the second system break in this law, and that's the more serious. It has, by the way, led to a break of half an hour in the Committee - perhaps of interest to the Assembly - because the Committee on Social Affairs was simply not the right committee to discuss how the whole legal succession would be at the commercial level. We have allowed ourselves in the Committee the insolent question: What is the point of this contract of entry, which is concluded between the City of Vienna and Holding AG? – As a result, inadequacies broke out, but then Mr. Doralt was called up, who advises the city of Vienna on these questions, and he was able to provide us with appropriate information. It was very interesting. He has told us that there is no such contract at all, and it will only be negotiated! . But you, Mrs Fuchs, have already presented us with elements of this contract of entry. So he may not have been quite unknown because this two-year period, the staff period and these things, are exactly the elements of this contract that Holding AG will conclude. I would have liked to have discussed this in committee, and I would have liked to see a draft. – But no, it was told us that there is no such thing as that. That is, we decide here a law by which we issue a blank authority to the city of Vienna so that it can now do what it wants. It can conclude any contract or do anything else. In my opinion, this is not transparent. I have therefore resisted the decision to do so. Despite all confidence in the public hands in Vienna, we felt that if the Federal legislator is needed for such a thing, he should also be informed about what is happening. The reason given by Professor Doralt is that there was no contract in other re-establishments, in the case of divisions of companies, when the law was passed – the word "re-foundation law" – was an inadmissible analogy, I say. In fact, the right of re-establishment is exactly what such a contract must look like. There is nothing here except that whatever is contained in the Treaty is universal legal succession. Now I ask you, for example – you will not be able to answer it –: What about those 5 billion Schillings, which the municipality of Vienna has tax-freely provided to the city's buildings, so that it can buy corporate interests in connection or at the OKA or elsewhere? Are they also handed over with the contract? Will the city of Vienna also take these 5 billion, which are located in the strategic war centre of the city of Vienna, into the contract? – We do not know all of this, but at the same time we should decide on the tax freedoms of these transactions and issue a plaque telquel! I say to you that this is such a bad law, it is a rule of law so worrying that anyone who agrees to it shows his friends a false kindness and abuses his mandate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8462	Mr Feurstein has also been mentioned on the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kier has once again presented one of his usual statements, which we are used to by him. Mr Kier, I strongly reject this. They have assumed that we are today adopting a law of which we did not know what it meant and whose legal consequences we cannot recognize. – I strongly reject this assumption. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say that we have answered all the questions in committee. Dr. Kier! We or not, but Professor Doralt and the other experts have answered all the questions you have asked satisfactoryly. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is the untruth!]] They were satisfied with the Committee's replies. Ladies and gentlemen! I can see this very clearly. There are no more open questions in this regard! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is the untruth!]] I would like to make the following very clear: We shall adopt a law allowing the exclusion of the city buildings in Vienna. I say quite clearly that we support this measure because we believe it is correct. We even believe that such disbursements are absolutely necessary in the present time, because they relieve our budgets, in this case the national budgets, but also the federal budget – we have found this already in previous years – quite essential. However, I would like to put one point to the debate: This breakdown is exempt from the tax. However, in previous acts of a similar nature, we have also laid down and decided on such exemptions. I am very grateful for the fact that the FPÖ, when we decided to transfer the shares of Vorarlberger Illwerke from the federal government to the country, contributed this tax advantage, tax exemption. That is to say, the country of Vorarlberg has not in fact had to pay any tax for this. I would like to thank the FPÖ once again for having accompanied our proposal at the time. I understand, of course, that the FPÖ is a little more critical in terms of Vienna's urban works. That is why it is likely to criticise and criticise the law. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: I agree with Mr Kier when he criticizes the collective treaty capacity of the city councils in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's worrying!]] Yes, this measure is not exemplary in my view either. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: I agree!]] On the contrary: We are of the opinion that collective contractual capacity should also be on the employer's side to the respective interests. We should not turn employers into a collective contractual partner in the real sense. In this case, you're right. We have, however, voted in favour of this in committee for very specific reasons. I do not wish to mention these reasons in detail. In principle, I believe that it is a correct note to be made to this law. Third and last comment, ladies and gentlemen: We are determined by this law that all previous public servants remain with the Vienna transport company's operational health insurance fund. This sets out a measure in this law which is not the way we really want it to be. For we believe that, in principle, every employee belongs to where he would have to be due to his status, which is defined in the ASVG. In this case, in my opinion, there is still a second question: We have already done so in other cases, we have said that staff belong to a certain health insurance fund. I am thinking of the health insurance fund of the public servants. However, at that time we found that a comparison of the financial impact must be made after a certain period of time. That is, financial benefits have to be determined, and that is exactly what we are not doing in this law. I would therefore think that we should continue to measure these things equally in the future and treat social insurance companies and health insurance companies in the same way. – But again: It's a law we can agree to. On the question: Why has the Treaty not been presented? . The reasons for this have been clearly explained in the Committee, Mr Kier! There is a reason for the failure to present, because it is impossible to say exactly what rights, what land, what services can be transferred, because this can only be precisely regulated over time. The fact that there is a draft of such a contract has been clearly communicated to the Committee by Professor Doralt. And it was also informed of the concrete content of this contract. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] All the points we asked for have been notified, no point has been left open. You have asked for the land, and it has been answered quite correctly, Mr Kier, that the land cannot yet be known in detail today – for reasons which I do not want to mention now. Overall, we can agree with this law, with which the distribution of the city buildings of Vienna takes place, with good conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8578	Mr Dr Kier, rapporteur, spoke to the House for an actual correction. The provisions are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8605	Mr President. High house! From this point of view, Mr Feurstein has said that I would have made a statement by expressing that I have not been fully informed. That was not right, and he did it far-reachingly. I'm actually correcting: I asked for the introduction contract to be submitted to obtain knowledge of it, but this request was refused, on the grounds that it had not yet been given. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I said that too!]] Therefore, we were not fully informed, but only informed that this information was not possible. This is not a comprehensive information. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8657	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8679	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to make the mistake of dealing with this commercial and certainly not uninteresting and not unimportant part of the problem of exclusion. However, I would like to follow Mr Feurstein's remarks, because I believe he has brought an item of art to the fore. He took out some aspects of this law, which we should decide here, and said that there were problems in the collective contract possibility, where there were also problems in the health insurance system, but in total – although you did not say more than that – it was a good law. So twice minus is obviously also a plus, that was your piece of art that you did in this debate. In fact, I would just like to stay with the minus, Mr Feurstein. That's higher coalition mathematics, I understand. I would like to stay with the Minus, and I can do so with your remarks: On the question of collective contractual capacity, of course, this provision also irritates me. But this alone would not irritate me yet, if I knew that at the same time someone would also care about the staff of the Innsbruck transport companies or the Salzburger Stadtwerke, which have also just been distributed or distributed. Where is there the strong representation of interest that, like in the case of the city councils in Vienna, tries to ensure something for the staff? Obviously, no one cares about this anymore. This is also obviously not an issue for the trade union – colleague Edler or colleague Hums, it is finally the area of the railway union – if, as is evident from the example of Innsbruck transport companies, people switch from one company to another or leave this public employment relationship and suffer in the private income loss of 30, 40 percent. – That’s not a topic! That's why I'm wondering: In this case, do I really have to agree to a collective treaty that guarantees these rights for the staff of the city councils in Vienna, but at the same time is a clear signal in the direction that we do not care about what happens to the staff everywhere in Austria? – Only because there is a somewhat strong representation of interest in Vienna will this law now be passed. Second point: Health insurance. The same applies to this area. The argument that Mr Feurstein has made here is that I can only agree with it. I think it is a pleasure to note that, in times when there is an attempt in every area to achieve the highest possible degree of harmonisation in the social security sector, special arrangements for staff who do not contribute to supporting us in this one issue, which obviously concerns all of us, including joint motions for resolutions on social security, to continue to promote harmonisation in the field of social security. – Mr Edler! That would also be an order for a social-democratic trade unionist. [[Abg. Edler: Do you know the demands of your group?]] I am therefore on the third point, which has not yet been debated, but which, for us, is the essential reason why we do not agree with this law. In general, the problem is disseminating. [[Abg. Edler: You don't agree? – You will be in trouble with your group!]] It has already been stressed by many speakers that political control over the company is lost, but it has not yet been worked out that it is likely that the contract, the public-sector contract, will also be lost due to the exclusion of the company over time – and that was intended with the dissemination. What public undertakings do in the field of public costs and economic contracts will no longer be able to be guaranteed if Vienna's transport companies, as part of these urban buildings, have to behave as privately as well and may have to compete with the ÖBB for the contract for the award of the line management in the transport sector. That would be a consequence, Mr Edler. I am surprised that a social-democratic trade unionist, who should and should be concerned about all this, is simply looking at how the task of public enterprises is ruined by the exclusion, whose social consequences are initially being eliminated from the back. Moreover, political and democratic control of the distributed companies and the possibility of obtaining other contracts can no longer be achieved and perceived. That is why we do not agree to this request. It is a follow-up law, because the actual law, namely the exclusion itself, as Mr Kier referred to it, is passed at other levels and is no longer discussed by us at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8733	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8755	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal law, which concerns the disseminating of Vienna's urban works, has been re-enacted by public authorities, with each of the disseminations having specific features and will certainly also be available in the future. For reasons of competence, both federal and national law measures are necessary for this law and therefore also these accompanying measures at the federal level are necessary. I therefore believe that it is important to make it clear that this exclusion creates essential conditions for the company's ability to act in the future, but, on the other hand, I believe that it is very important, the rights, the claims, the quality of co-determination for the employees of this group of companies in the old quality are also safeguarded. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and with the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank the Committee president, Mrs Reitsamer, very much, who, by interrupting the Committee meeting and by calling on additional experts, Mr Professor. Doralt has already been mentioned, but an expert from the Ministry of Justice has also appeared – ladies and gentlemen of the Committee and, I say, has also enabled me to obtain additional legal information, information and detailed information, as social issues such as the Treaty have also been addressed as such. It has been clarified in this debate and in this very expert explanation why there can be no final treaty yet, because it has to be developed from the steps to be taken. That is why it has not been possible to take into account the wish of ladies and gentlemen of the Committee to get a contract already presented, because such a one does not yet exist. However, this law is necessary in order to enable such a contract to come into existence at all. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since you have been asked here by you the question of the competence of your own company health insurance fund: I think I can say that it is especially important, from the point of view of the employees, to have a very close care by the health insurance fund, through the insurance company. I give right to all those who strive – I also strive to achieve uniformity, equality. But I think it would be useful to maintain an operational health telephone system that has proved itself, both in the interests of the insured and for economic reasons, because we know that their special situation in the administration can be more cost-effective as costs are taken over by the company. Allow me also to make a few comments on the issue of collective contractual capacity. I share the view that we should be very reluctant to deal with special collective contractual powers and take very specific decisions in this regard. However, the House has already, in other cases, taken the view of the applicants, the negotiators, namely that its own KV capability should be ensured. I remember the AMA, the Austro Control Ges.m.b.H. and not least to the labour market service, the Federal Forests, the Post and Telekom, the Federal Accounting Centre, the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, the Umweltbundesamt, and I could mention other examples. I have just mentioned this in order to say that there is no Lex specialis being made for the victims of Vienna, and there is no Lex specialis in terms of tax exemption. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In itself, this law is an important, good condition to provide the company with additional opportunities for competition in the economy and, on the other hand, to ensure the quality of participation and the maintenance of a high quality of work – not least in the sense of the citizens of Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8807	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We also do not have the rapporteur's final word and therefore enter the voting procedure. - I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1660 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their approval to the draft law at third reading. – This too is done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report (III-175 of the Supplements) by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the activity of the labour inspection in 1997 (1656 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 839/A by Mr Karl Ollinger and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (1657 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8874	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8905	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The report by the Ministry of Social Affairs on the activity of labour inspection in 1997 shows that the number of accidents and regulations on the protection of workers has continued to fall, that intensive information and advice is provided by the labour inspection, that safety awareness has increased in the establishments and that accident rates have fallen. 315 work inspectors were used to review 83 000 plants and construction sites in 1997. 15 000 support consultations have been carried out, more than in previous years. Of the total of 75 000 infringements found, some 65 000 were concerned with occupational safety and health protection, and about every 8th complaint concerned the employment of pregnant women and the rules on working time and work rest. In the case of steering controls, 5 900 infringements were also detected. Control, instruction and consultation are very important. They are important in road transport, air transport, banking supervision and in many other areas, as well as at work and at construction sites. We must, however, distinguish between bagatellas and gross excesses. There were also complaints in the construction, trade and in the restaurants, but there were minor setbacks in relation to the objections. However, it should be noted that three-quarters of all concerns in these sectors concerned safety and health protection. The number of accidents at work has also fallen slightly. However, the number of fatal accidents, which is very unfortunate, has increased in terms of construction, trade and metal production. In the construction sector in particular, there has been an increase from 41 fatal accidents in 1996 to 49. In 1996 there were 10 fatal accidents in metal production and in 1997 14. I believe that, in those areas which are particularly affected, priority should be given in the future to reduce the number of accidents, especially those which are fatal. According to this report, the decline in the number of complaints and infringements is due to intensive information and advice from labour inspections and increased self-responsibilities at the workplaces. But I mean, it is certainly also due to the fact that, even if there are reports of jubilation, not all accidents at work are reported; there is certainly a large number of dark cases in this respect. Fewer farms have been controlled and workers have been less affected by controls. Although 146,000 workers have been controlled, 170 000 workers were monitored in 1996. I think that we should not be overjoyed, but continue to work on the protection of workers and put the safety at work in the foreground.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8951	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e8972	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by stressing the excellent quality of this report and thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for it. I would also like to ask you to forward this thanks to the officials involved in this report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A number of suggestions from the discussions of recent years have also been included in the report, which is quite positive. The report shows that 83,000 establishments and construction sites of 315 labour inspectors have been checked and 75 000 infringements have been committed. Each of the eighth concerns was about the employment of pregnant women and young people, or about working time and working time. We have a 10 percent reduction in the excesses. There were 20 percent fewer ads, but 15 000, plus 10 percent, supporting consultations. This is a very encouraging report, ladies and gentlemen. Once the labour inspectorate for the service providers was often something like an enemy image, it has now become a real partnership, and at last the legal measures of employers and employees are equally understood and accepted, and I think that is very positive. If Mr Dolinschek has spoken of a dark number of accidents at work, I can only say that you simply can't bear it if something goes positive. It is then tried to maneuver some of the dark figures into a report. That's incredible! We should all be happy about the fact that less is happening. It's every single accident of one too much. I know what that means. My father was bedridden after a work accident for 10 years. Mr Oellinger's request concerning the extension of the list of occupational diseases I would just like to say that with the 55. ASVG-Novelle of the catalogue has been extended and adapted to EU directives. At the end of 1999, the occupational accident insurance institution will present a test report on the reception of occupational vertebral diseases and tendon separatism. I think you should wait for this. [[Abg. Oils: Keep waiting!]] Not always! But sensible things that go in the right direction, as you wish, you should really wait to do something reasonable together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Meisinger spoke in committee of a poor balance sheet on the control of illegal employment of foreign workers. I ask you: Where is the poor balance sheet when the number of controls increases and the number of complaints concerning illegal workers decreases? – You have to explain that to me once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] In the future, there will also be high-quality occupational medicine and safety care for workers in small and medium-sized enterprises. We have this with the novel to the Workers' Protection Act, the one with 1. 1. ==References====External links== That is another good step in the right direction. – So overall, a very positive development. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9026	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9047	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The report on the activity of the labour inspectorate is a report which is, in itself, interesting and informative. However, different conclusions can be drawn. It is understandable that the Liberal Group is not as enthusiastic as my previous speaker about social democracy. In particular, we miss the necessary transparency, which would be useful as follows: To what extent has the actual advisory activity increased in relation to control activity? – This is precisely what can be found out from the figures that are available to us only indirectly, as the number of cases has fallen. The question must therefore be asked: Have the objections fallen because, in fact, the findings were better or because they were more often used as a means of consulting rather than as a means of dispute? – After it is a grey zone, it would be particularly important to highlight it. It is only the fact that I still think it is very important that there are very good trends in the field of accidents at work, but there is no reason to be satisfied. On the other hand, if you look at the problem of occupational diseases, you can only say that it is apparently not done right now in this field. I am very sure that my colleague, Mr Oellinger, will address the detailed questions of occupational diseases precisely. I also urge you to do so. Final remark: The report on the activity of the labour inspectorate also states something: More than 80 laws and regulations must be observed. There is a working group on recodification, but it is not heard from it. I believe that an essential contribution to increasing security in all these areas would be a clear, transparent re-codification of the relevant rules, so that all parties have a fair chance of knowing these rules perfectly: Knowledge of rules is the first prerequisite for being able to comply with them. In my opinion, although it is no less objectionable if a person does not stick to something because he does not take notice of it, I must say that it is somehow not possible to comply with something if one is simply called upon at the knowledge level by an inconspicuous flood of laws and regulations. Create Therefore, put aside the potential for excuses that you provide, which makes people feel morally justified if they do not do certain things – and can speak out on the jungle of regulations! It's not just an excuse, it's really a jungle. Please believe me! Drifts Therefore, you are progressing with all your strength towards re-codification in this area! New codification – which should now be addressed to colleagues in the left half of this hall – does not mean deterioration of protection regulations, but improve their viability. It is not a good thing because we have always done so and formulated it in exactly that way in any regulation, but it always depends on the purpose of protection. It will be possible to find new formulations, which can also be understood by a "normal" person on the street, so that he does not have to consult a legal adviser because he wants to comply with labour regulations. You have already been removed in your chamber bureaucracy so that you do not even understand that it is a language that no one understands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy! This is a kind of noble arrogance. And that's bad.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9097	Mr Dr. Drinkl, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9118	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present report by the Labour Inspectorate for 1997 is pleased for several reasons. First: It has already been said that the number of complaints has fallen. Secondly – and this is even more encouraging –: The need to repay ads on the basis of the complaints has become even lower. And this simply shows that businesses – workers and employers together – take the interests of workers' protection very seriously and raise awareness of safety in businesses from day to day. This trend is particularly evident in the decline in the number of accidents at work. If accidents at work have fallen from 139 000 to 121 000 in 1997, I think this is a common success for the workers and the labour inspectorate. We should be pleased, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Gaugg, who has already said so in committee, and we should see this trend positively and not again, that anyone could have liked the number by not reporting accidents at work. I reject this idea in the interests of all parties involved, it really lacks any basis! There has also been a further decline in the use protection sector. Only 1 890 out of 74 000 reviews resulted in concerns in the fields of child and youth employment. Half of them, however, were in the hospitality industry. However, allow me to break a lance for the hospitality, because one has to take into account the special situation of these companies: These businesses then work when most of us enjoy their leisure time. These plants are also checked most. There are great opportunities for training there, opportunities for young people. We should, as I believe, be careful not to evade this sector by means of flat-rate discrimination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From this point of view, however, I would like to point out quite clearly that cooperation between labour inspectors and businesses has been substantially improved, and this must be noted. On behalf of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to thank the employees of the labour inspection not only for presenting this informative report, but also for taking seriously the law mandate to advise and support workers' protection companies accordingly. A warm thanks for this attitude and also recognition for this change in mind. The list of Mrs. Sectionschefin, which shows how success has already been achieved in the run-up to the first contacts, in many cases only through consultations, is impressive. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The success is right that the path taken is the right one. It is widely recognized by those concerned. However, how easily one can bring a good instrument into discredit, those cases in which joint visits of labour inspectors and workers' chamber take place show that the labour inspector only serves as a door opener and surveys, which often happen in rather sparse form, are carried out only more by colleagues of the Chamber of Labour. – That is not the way it is provided for in the law. And more importantly, This threatens the good basis for cooperation between businesses and labour inspectorates. I think that in the future we should prevent such cases from happening. I'd like to add one more. As a result of such cases, officials of the representation of interest sometimes complain publicly about the labour inspectorate. This should not result in special treatment by the Labour Inspectorate for these officials. I have a specific case in Knittelfeld in mind. I hope that this case can be settled and resolved by common accord in the near future. But I would like to stress: These are individual cases that disturb the climate there and there. In a wide range of areas, cooperation has been very, very good in recent years, even better day by day. For example, I would like to highlight the excellent cooperation in the field of project talks offered in the district headquarters. The participation of the labour inspectors in the project talks not only leads to the reduction of procedures, but many problems and questions which arise can be resolved by agreement in advance, which will help to ensure that there is no problem at all at all. I thank you very much for these efforts. I am sure that the encouraging trend expressed today by the 1997 Labour Inspectorate's report will continue accordingly if we continue this path together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9183	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9205	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not, of course, see the report as pleasing as my colleague Drinkl. If it is noted that the number of complaints has fallen, then I must say that is true, but at the same time the number of checks has been reduced. There is, of course, a correlation between falling controls and falling complaints. So from that already positive trend, something would be measured. Second point: The real problem – and that is why I am happy about the debate that has been held here, even though only a few speakers are involved – is that in times when competition, the pressure of performance between workers, between businesses – even employers – is negatively affected, workers' protection and health at work are no longer included. And this is a tendency which is partly given by law, too, by moving workers' protection, health issues at the workplace to the voluntary level, to the advisory level. Sometimes it makes sense, but sometimes you can see trends between the numbers you should be careful of. And with that, I'm on my favorite theme: Labour accidents and occupational diseases. My topic is that of occupational diseases. Mr Dolinschek has now tried to bring in a subject which I believe is no less problematic, which is not debated in the public, because there are few points and the people concerned do not want to talk about it. But there was an event that discussed it or became a cover-up of accidents at work, and this was Lassing, ladies and gentlemen. We have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs several times that Lassing should also be examined, which is with regard to the accident at work. However, we have never received an answer from the Minister for Economic Affairs. If you now say that there is no problem from the government parties – that was you from the Social Democrats – and Mr Dolinschek cannot even bear positive statistics, then I do not need to come to the aid of Mr Dolinschek in order to hold here: They're dwindling past the truth. There is a problem that workers, out of the interest of not losing their jobs, re-declarate accidents at work into leisure accidents. And there you only need to go to those farms where it's particularly bad, then you'll find out. This concerns the side of accidents at work. There are the interests of employers, and there are interests of workers coming under the wheels in these interests. It is slightly different for occupational diseases: The employers do not have such a special interest in concealing this. It is rather the problem of the accident insurance institution, i.e. in principle a state organization which is very pleased when there are low occupational disease rates. What we find in Austria against any trend abroad is that the number of occupational diseases in Austria has halved since the end of the 1980s. Nowhere else has the number of occupational diseases been halved, only in Austria, because the Austrian human being – there is the famous statement of the occupational physician of the accident insurance institution, Mr. Primarius Prügger – is the Homo Austriacus, simply of a more robust nature. Although still so toxic materials are used in Austria, the Homo Austriacus does not do so already, which bears it. Asbestos, polychlorinated hydrocarbons – that doesn't matter to him. Although there may occasionally be diseases, this is already covered in Austria. And if it does not overlap with those concerned because they die of it, at least the accident insurance institution does everything possible to prevent recognition as a occupational disease. Because it's still better, that's paid by the health insurance, that doesn't cost so much. "Normal" diseases are not as well paid as accident pensions or pensions due to occupational diseases. There's not much to spend on rehabilitation either. That's the problem. We have a falling regulatory area in the area of worker protection – and that is what I am going to get back to the starting point. At the same time, there are institutions that should carry out accident prevention, accident prevention, occupational disease prevention, which make good use of this declining or lower regulatory density in order to write positive balance sheets, because it is considered to be a performance card in Austria when accident insurance writes a positive balance sheet. Then the Minister of Finance, with the agreement of the Minister of Social Affairs, is allowed to get back into the pot of this accident insurance institution and get something out of the budget. - That's how it looks! But it is not that things are as good as you try to present them. I would just like to point out: This report also shows that there can be no reduction in the suspicions of occupational diseases reported to the labour inspectorate. The decrease is due to the number of cases recognised. There are still 2 500 cases suspected of being occupational diseases, but the rate of recognition is now less than half, namely 1 100 people. Since in the past I have had to deal with some people who have suffered from asbestos diseases, or have died, mainly – that was a special topic of mine – I know how this accident insurance institution deals with its experts. Someone can be half dead already, he's still being sent to work with the harmful substances while it's still going on. That is also a reality! Ladies and gentlemen! This should actually be the reason to intensify the efforts made in this area of worker protection, because the sickening substances, the harmful substances still exist in the working environment, which is not only outdoors, but much more in operation. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] However, I am still coming to a specific issue, which also concerns occupational medicine. Mrs Bundesminister, this is a question or a problem which I would like to address in particular to you. There is a letter from an interest group of doctors – I say quite clearly: on behalf of the Pharma lobby -: Doctors against regular pain. These are addressed to the occupational doctors in the establishments and say: If you want to do something about the high mistimes – for there are still women who have mistimes due to regular pains – if you want to do something about the regular pains and against the women who interfere with the production cycle by missing because they have regular pains, then turn to us. We provide you with the necessary information and the corresponding hormones, so that it no longer occurs in such mistimes. Then there is a beautiful sentence in this letter: This allows you to make yourself popular in the workplace – addressed to the occupational physicians. Do you like who? – With the entrepreneur, because then there are no job losses, no more interruptions, because after a few pills have been injected, so to speak, the "Hormon bundle of woman" has been restored. Then there are no more disturbing functions in women. Ladies and gentlemen! If workers' protection, when occupational medicine is used in the establishments – and it is about occupational medicine professionals – are abused by the pharmaceutical lobby to bring their products not to the man, but to the woman, if women in the establishments are seen only as "hormonal bundles" or as "feel functions", i.e. as things which still do not work properly, then, I must say, a lot is not right, not only in the establishments, but also in society which does not even want to register, that there are these attempts to help women to solve a health problem at the expense of women – it is not even a health problem – no, a problem that is not at all such to solve that women are used and abused in order to help the pharmaceutical lobby. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would expect you to speak a strong word in this case, not only to the address of the occupational physicians, who in this case are obviously seen as the appropriate recipients, so that the pharmaceutical lobby can put its products off, but also to the address of the economy if it is willing to resort to this abuse. I would like this to be done, Mrs Federal Minister, and I also expect a statement from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9279	Mrs Sophie Bauer has also been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9300	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The activity report of the 1997 Labour Inspectorate, which is very clear and detailed in terms of the topics, makes it possible immediately to identify the areas in which major improvements have been made through safety and occupational health care relating to workers' and workers' protection. If some 46 per cent of the defects identified in the field of use protection concern the law on working time, it is immediately apparent that the work inspection in this area needs to be even more active. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Labour inspectors took part in 18 500 administrative negotiations in the year under review, with 7 100 preliminary meetings of operational projects and 7 600 consultations. However, as a works councillor, I am convinced that only an unannounced check on labour inspection is a target. – From 1997 to 1998, there were 4 705 cases less, and this is really to be described as a success. However, it is also very important to inform workers about the sources of risk at the workplace. Unfortunately, because of the increasing pressure on workers, it is often so that regulations are simply "forget" as was the case in an accident at an industrial machine in a hospital, for example, when a worker entered a hot washing machine without protective measures. A second one followed him to help. Both could only be found dead by the fire brigade. – In this case, it would have been lifesaving if entry without protective measures had not been possible at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that in the report year 1997 the number of accidents in the self-employed has fallen by 148, in the number of employees by four. In the event of road accidents, the workers fell by seven and the employees by six cases. Road accidents are mainly due to adverse weather conditions. Unfortunately, one area in which workers' and workers' protection is still very common is the tourism sector, namely the hotels and restaurants. There are very frequent violations of child and youth consumer protection. For me, then, it is a matter of course that transgressions are punished. However, Mr Haider, who is not present today, is opposed to this. He has recently repeatedly claimed to represent the interests of workers. So said Dr. Haider in a speech on 4. Last November, a hostess was sentenced to a penalty of 42 000 s because of a one-off violation. . I would like to say that this teacher has already violated workers' protection 13 times. A minimum penalty of 3 000 S is therefore more than justified. It is known to all of us that in Carinthia, the protection of workers and workers is often not taken too closely: In 1997, a breach rate of 84.4 percent in the host sector was found in this state. [[Abg. Meisinger: No wonder! 40 years of social democracy have shaped!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary to step up consultation, particularly on unannounced inspections of labour inspectors. On this occasion, I should like to thank Mrs. Hostasch and her team for their informative reporting on the activity of the labour inspection in 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9345	Mr Meisinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9366	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The 1997 report on the activity of labour inspection highlights, among other things, the great efforts made to control illegally employed foreign workers. The number of inspectors in this area has also been increased by twelve, which is an increase of more than 30 percent. On the other hand, the control remained almost the same: There was an increase of only 0.6 percent. The comparison of the activity of labour inspectors from 1988 to 1997 shows that in 1988, 163 inspectors had 74 172 missions, whereas in 1997 315 inspectors had only 51 141 missions. This is a minus of 42 percent per job inspector. This is worrying, even if the following is to be read on page 9 of this report – I quote –: "It is a declared social policy objective to intensify control activities and to significantly increase the frequency of control in order to improve the opportunities of job seekers by preventing illegal employment as fully as possible, thereby making a significant contribution to reducing unemployment." This is a contradiction in itself. I would also like to insist that, if such a passage comes in, first of all the employment of Austrian citizens will be highlighted, but not the employment of foreigners will be highlighted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Additional labour inspectorates have been set up with a view to speeding up, unbureaucratic and efficient action against illegal employment; special "intervention groups" have been set up to combat such abuses. But, as we know, this was not exactly a crown of great success; reality looks different. Now some examples: The social security card announced by the then Minister of Social Security Hesoun, which was announced at the time in the Government Declaration, would have been a good opportunity to do this more efficiently. Unfortunately, this announcement has not been implemented. In this context, it would also be important to distance itself from this kind of announced control in political and personal adversities. Another focus should also be the Ausländer-Employerungsgesetz for the protection of domestic or long-time foreign workers living in Austria, as well as the second and third generation of successors. However, this must not go so far as, for example, as was the case in Upper Austria, to announce to the President of the Chamber of Labour that he prefers to help foreign young people to become teaching places. The fact that this president is making himself strong for Austrian young people was not at all talkable. Mrs. Federal Minister! More honest fight against illegal employment would undoubtedly be appropriate – and not just dyeing, but we are quite used to by you!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9425	Mrs Silhavy has now been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9446	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Meisinger, it is not necessary to stress that we should work for Austrian apprentices, Austrian workers, because we do so, unlike you. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Meisinger.]] We don't need to emphasize that. We're doing that! And we're doing something else: We are not driving rows between men and women, between people of Austrian and foreign origin, but we represent workers as a whole! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Return to the 1997 Labour Inspectorate report, which is particularly marked by the emphasis on advisory activities. Mr Sophie Bauer has already stressed that there were 7 100 preliminary meetings of operational projects. This seems to me to be particularly worth mentioning, because we know from practice that subsequent facilities are, in most cases, more difficult to comply with the protection provisions than if they are already taken into account as part of projecting. I would also like to welcome the fact that in the active-serviced workplaces, the excesses of 29 per cent are considerably lower than in others, where there was a share of 42 per cent of the exceedances. I think it makes sense to consult – and this is a positive outcome in this year of the report. Two suggestions on the part of the labour inspectorate also seem to me to be important to this House, and I believe that we will have to deal with this more intensively in the future. One is the finding by the labour inspectorates that employers often fail to comply with their obligation to teach workers. I think we will have to think about how we can better involve employers in their commitment. The second point, which is also important to me, is the lack of information between courts and labour inspection. He was very clearly highlighted in the report by the example of the two Carinthian cases of employers' sexual assaults on young apprentices, in which the labour inspection has in one case only learned about the district headquarters and, in the other case, only from the media. In other words, we are called upon to consider how to improve the flow of information between courts and labour inspection. Mr Kier – he is not here at the moment – that is very nice for you to do this to him – has meant that simplification of legislation would be desirable, and has put us under more or less arrogance. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: We'll take care of it!]] – I think it is arrogant to say this, but I will then discuss it personally with Mr Kier. Without a doubt, it is so – and this is not only true of the Workers' Protection Act – that our laws are partly very complicated and complex. You know that as well as I do, which we deal with. Only: As simple as colleague Peter – and the ideas of the Liberal Forum are obviously going in this direction – you can't do it that you say: We do something of our own for health-threatening industries and businesses, and for others something else, and at the end of the day we do not define what is dangerous to health. I asked him the last time: Is the construction industry in which we have more accidents at work dangerous to health or are the hairdressers, among whom there are more skin diseases, at risk of health risk? – I didn’t get an answer! – Well, that’s a bit very easy, and I’d say even more arrogant! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bauer has already referred to the overrun of working time rules. I think, especially in view of the more flexible ways of working, which we have also decided and made possible for the economy in our area, controls are essential in this area. I believe that they need to be stressed and even strengthened, because the statement of Mr Drinkl in the Committee – today he has not said it quite directly because it is public – that the KJBG, especially in the hospitality sector, is overrun – and 50 percent of the excesses are in this area! –, only if they are harmful to the young, can they not be tolerated! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: I didn't say that!]] Does that mean that we tolerate all other legal excesses, not just those that directly endanger health? – I think this is a strong piece to hear from a Member of this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I think that, if business representatives are here in this House, they are dealing with the law, then controls in these areas are certainly still more necessary. As far as the constant allusions made by Mr Drinkl to the joint proceedings of the Chamber of Labour and Labour Inspectorate are concerned, I am already aware that this may be a thorn in view of the interests of entrepreneurs. Only: Why is it necessary? – Because there are so many excesses in these areas! I think one might have to think about it, because the whole thing reminded me a little bit of a quote: "At last I used to spoil the horse's food, and now the stupid cattle has died" – how to deal with people as a whole. One should consider how to deal with people's rights, because at the end of the day, workers' rights must be respected, not only by representatives here in the House, but also by representatives of the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9540	Mr Blünegger has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9561	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The report on labour inspection certainly provides a lot of figures, and some figures have already been mentioned. Of course, I would also like to commend and appreciate the work done by the labour inspectors, because in a number of 315 labour inspectors in 1997 these have certainly done very good work. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Is that honest? Mr. Haider always says, Labour Inspectors...!]] It is also to be said that the number of infringements of the rules fell by 10 per cent in 1997. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, that's not your performance, it's that of the domestic economy and the tradesmen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This merit also belongs to the tradesmen, and it is truly noteworthy what has been accomplished there. Because the desire for regulation, the bureaucracy of this federal government – and I only need to look in this area – has taken on dimensions that have impressed the economy. Today, in Austria, it is almost impossible to run a farm and not to violate a law, because the various laws are due to the fact that it has come to this point. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is an immense statement! That's a call for a breach of justice!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is an exciting statement!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is a call for a breach of justice!]] As regards the controls on foreign employment, the Federal Minister – I am, among other things, the equivalent partner in a firm, Mr Vergestnich, and I think this is more important than to say here today that there are laws in this House which do not even give the workers the power to come to their work at all – has the Minister of State very boldly and dryly found that 3 900 illegally employed foreigners were found in 2 100 control cases. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Verbatim]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Verbatim]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members Meisinger and Koppler.]] It should also be taken into account that this is probably only the tip of the iceberg. We are also giving a clear line to liberals because, among other things, we are pursuing a foreign policy to say that the residence of illegal foreigners in Austria is not appropriate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to address another point. They constantly boast that the number of recognised occupational diseases has fallen. – This has actually fallen, but this is not a miracle, because you yourself, Mrs Bundesminister, determine what is and what is not a professional disease. I believe that we even have proof of this by the fact that at the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, at the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats rejected the reasoned amendment tabled by Mr Ollinger on this subject. There is no need to wonder, therefore, that recognized occupational diseases are reducing the number of recognised accidents at work. However, this legitimate request by Mr Öllinger did not agree to this one-man government – better: this still-one government – and therefore we will not vote in favour of this report either.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9680	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9701	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me thank you for your recognised words on this report on the activity of labour inspection, because it also expressed your appreciation of the use of labour inspectorates for better workers' protection provisions, for better working conditions for colleagues on the ground, but also for an improved situation of cooperation with companies, especially in the field of mutual consultation. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this report shows that those objectives formulated in the new workers' protection law, which you have decided, have been fully achieved and that we can still have clear successes in the field of workers' protection. Let me highlight a special number, namely the decrease in the number of fatal accidents from 155 to 141 or the decrease in accidents – which does not take account of road accidents – from 139 600 to 121 500. However, the increase in advisory activity, the participation in preliminary meetings from 13 388 to 14,714, i.e. by 10 percent, also shows how important, but also how comprehensive, the work of labour inspection is. I would like to make it clear here that it is very important for me to see the consultation carried out very consistently by the labour inspection. This is where the labour inspection partner is also the business within the meaning of the interests of workers, but without neglecting the control activity. As regards control activities, perhaps a number – and here I am addressing the control of illegal foreign employment: From 1996 to 1997, we have increased control activity by 0.6 percent and, accordingly, we have set a special focus there, as is the overall focus of the labour inspection, when experience, experience, the need to recognise, in order to focus in particularly affected sectors – it has already been addressed which is primarily concerned: to carry out the field of hospitality, gastronomy and also the field of construction – very targeted controls. These controls also aim to ensure fair competition for the proper functioning of companies with fewer jobs and to ensure that the correct working relationship is developed. In this sense, I would be very pleased to see ladies and gentlemen, if it would be a long time to introduce the draft concerning the law on the fight against unemploy ment, which is already before Parliament, as soon as a decision is taken. I am convinced that this law will make it even more effective to combat organized illegal employment, but also illegal trade practice, which will enable us to achieve greater correctness in the working world, in employment relations for the economy and for workers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that cooperation with the Chamber of Labour, as well as cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, is very important to me with the economic representatives. When it comes to exercising interests of protection, however, I say very openly that from my experience the situation of workers is the weaker, and that we - I and also the labour inspectorate - are therefore on the side of the weaker ones in order to enforce their interests against stronger ones. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have also learned that some doctors are in the process of an action that is unacceptable to me and that is why I have asked my officials to take action and stop this action, if possible, but at least condemn it. This is not a way of dealing with workers in the world of work. I can only agree fully with the arguments put forward by Mr Ollinger. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you again and again to support the view that worker protection is not only a concern for workers but also a concern for businesses. It saves businesses costs when workers' protection regulations are complied with, but it is also a economic benefit if we have fewer accidents and fewer follow-up costs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9750	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. There are no more words available. That concludes the debate. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are now voting – I may ask you to take up the seats – and we are voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-175 of the supplements. If you would like to take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report in 1657. If you would also like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This too is the majority. This report is also taken note of. 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1638 of the Supplements): Bun-des Act, which amends the Law of Law, the Law of Law, the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1633 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Notarial Code, the Notarial Audit Act, the Part-Time Use Act and the Builder's Contract Act (Notarial Act 1999) (1682 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9828	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. There was no reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e9855	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! A strong counterwind blows into the face of the liberal professions in Austria, and this is especially true for the liberal professions of lawyers and notaries. It is because of the national but also international circumstances, how the professions are preparing to do so. It would have been an opportunity to create modern standards and conditions in the Professional Law Amendment Act, so that our free professions of lawyers, in particular the notaries, also have a secure economic existence for the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Novelle Professional Law Amendment Act was necessary in both areas due to the Directive of the European Union 98/5, which was in fact up to the 14th century. It is expected to be implemented in March 2000. Mr Minister – you already have to let this criticism happen – it is ultimately true that this amendment will not be the last one before the directive comes into force in 2000 – that is, we will have to discuss the professional law of lawyers again in the next six months. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: You cannot talk about the professions for long and often enough!]] Of course, the discussion can't hurt, but something should come out of it. With regard to the short term, I would like to address just a few criticisms: The law firm, which is introduced, the attorneys-GesmbH, is, in our opinion, too short and goes beyond reality. A short outline: It is still only a sham GmbH. The person company remains dependent, which can now be managed in a GmbH. There is no choice of company name possible, there are only personal company names, there is no procura possible, there are no more participations by lawyers, no interdisciplinary societies possible, but also non-professionals cannot participate. . We have already explained this criticism to the Committee, and it is based on the fact that, in our opinion, the novels are far too brief and not EU-compliant. I hope that, at the next change, we will be able to get through to create modern conditions in this area. However, the admission requirements for access to this profession would in itself have been different in the course of this change in professional law among lawyers. They continue to discriminate against foreigners, they are unreasonable because they do not comply with international comparison due to their length and their conditions for access, and they are strongly influenced by state-of-the-art competition thinking – this must not be forgotten. You should have made it a little more modern. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In return, even though the counterwind blows and we naturally want to claim on the market, the examination of the lawyer is made more difficult by the introduction of another subject of examination. In view of the long-term training periods for lawyers, I believe that, in response to the fact that our people in this field can only make themselves independent at the earliest of 29 or 30 years of age, we are introducing an additional subject of examination. There is no comparable legal examination across Europe, or even a comparable long training period of five years after completion of the studies – after completion of the studies, you must not forget that! However, neither the anti-female and anti-family provisions in legal training have been eliminated. The attorney is subject to his training attorney to a degree such as in no other training or any other profession. No part-time schemes are possible – not even by extending vocational training – which, of course, makes it impossible for women who think of family creations to have access to this profession at all. I believe that there is a need for action and that we must resolve it as quickly as possible. It cannot be assumed that lawyers may only be singles or that a marriage may not be able to live at all. There is no improvement in the legal status of lawyers in the chamber and no improvement in social security for lawyers and lawyers. I remind you: There is no pension claim acquired during the period of education, but also no survivors' or invalidity pension rights until the fifth year following the eligibility of registration. That means up to 33. A social zero for this profession – and this also applies to notaries. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: No, not at all!]] I do not think that is appropriate in time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there is also no slendering of the chamber area: For almost 5,000 members, there are nine Chambers of State and a Federal Chamber. There are soon more officials than members in this Chamber. And I mean, there's something you should change. We have tabled amendments or motions for resolutions which I would like to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] The statement of reasons will still be presented separately by a colleague. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is not a question of the fact that, as a result of their good lobbying, one has to praise it, one succeeds in opening up business areas, but becomes more or less free will for chambers and other officials in other legal professions. Another request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The last proposal is rather social policy: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! One last word: In Austria, angular writing has been systematically raised to the law for many years. It's actually like this: In the past, the corner writing industry was pontified – today, in the legal advisory profession, financial procuratorship, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers, the Landlords, the tenants' associations and the tenants' association, trade unions, chambers, and, more recently, business loyals. But also conflict resolution centres, where one actually employs people who have been produced past the market for decades – social pedagogists et cetera – are involved in the law-based professions, just as this will soon be the case with mediation, with the equal treatment attorneys and patient lawyers. Debt advice agencies in private bankruptcy and the third privileged creditor protection association to which we will still be talking will ultimately be used in the legal advisory area. I mean, we have to consider modern training and also a modern professional image for lawyers. Finally, it must also be possible for legal advice to be found by the citizen only where the real lawyer of the citizens, where the expert sits. And that is still the only lawyer in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10035	The just-readed amendment and the just-readed motions for resolutions are properly put in place, supported accordingly and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Madam President, at 3 p.m. a urgent question has been raised. Your speaking time is therefore 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10059	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The professional law for lawyers and notaries was under the great principles of deregulation, liberalisation and, especially with lawyers, of new possible social formations. We have now made it possible for, in addition to the individual companies in which, of course, every person involved must have the qualification as a lawyer, also to be admitted to capital companies, namely GesmbHs. These have been allowed in Germany for a long time and will also be possible in Austria in the future. We have not clearly regulated – and we have not yet been able to do so – international cooperation, i.e. the question of what this will look like in the future if cross-border societies want to form or combine. On this issue, we did not want to make a regulation in this respect, because we want to make an international approach here. It makes no sense that Austria is already prejudicially pre-empting something and then perhaps colliding with our colleagues and with the standards in neighbouring countries, in particular those of the European Union. We want to open the gates to the law-based professions – and not to close them. The question of interdisciplinary cooperation, of course, was also closely associated with this debate. This means that not only lawyers should be able to form a society but, for example, other professional groups should be able to form companies together with lawyers. For example, the economic loyals have included in their law, which we decided last month, that such interdisciplinary cooperations are possible, but that the economic loyals must have the majority of voting rights and, of course, the majority must also be present as a dominant factor. If a similar provision were introduced for lawyers, i.e. the possibility of interdisciplinary cooperation on the condition that they have the majority, then both provisions would have been ad absurd, because there are no two majority. That is why we have also put this question back once again in order to explain under which voting rights regulations, under which dominant regulations and, above all, especially – and this seems to me to be the essential – which professional groups should be possible interdisciplinary cooperation. In fact, it is clear to everyone that lawyers should be associated with economic trustees or with business consultants in order to be able to act on the market as providers of a service. However, it is already to be questioned whether this should apply to lawyers and property trustees, lawyers and architects, lawyers and builders, or at all other companies or commercial firms, whether there are incompatibilities of classical nature and whether such cooperations still correspond to our understanding of liberal professions with their respective disciplinary law and their professional regulations. That is why we have reversed the solution to this question. However, as soon as we have clearer framework conditions and in particular see how our European neighbours deal with this question, we will continue to discuss them here in this House. The long duration of training for lawyers was also discussed. In particular, this training period is very long in European comparison. However, I would also like to make a commitment to quality from this point of view. Not only do we have the longest duration of training, but we also have one of the highest qualities in the legal professions in Europe – and this should not simply be ignored or given out easily. It is, however, worth remembering that there can be some kind of domestic discrimination, and that is why it is still necessary to solve this question. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let me say a last sentence on the ban on advertising. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign and shows the speaker by a gesture the number one.]] Thank you. For a ban on advertising: It is true that the population often does not know what assistance and services lawyers and notaries offer because there is a quasi-advertising ban. So if you want to be a contemporary participant in the service market towards legal advice, then you will have to let this advertising ban be completely relaxed and allowed in the context of the allowed competition.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10121	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 7 and 8 of the agenda for the current sitting, and we are therefore entering into a urgent debate this morning. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Schwarzböck and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on Agenda 2000 – Negotiating results in the field of agriculture (5943/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10148	We are now urgently examining the written question 5943/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10456	I can give the first signatory, Mr Schwarzenberger, the floor for the reasons for the request. Speaking time: a maximum of 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10478	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Liberalisation also started in the agricultural policy with the GATT-Uruguay negotiations in 1986, and in 1993 the WTO agreement was concluded. At that time it was agreed that within the next six years, starting from 1995, export subsidies should be reduced by 36 percent, import levies also by 36 percent, and the amount of support placed on the world market must be reduced by 21 percent. This has also led to a pressure on the reduction of export support. The EU Commission took this into account and for the next programme period from 2000 to 2006 on 18. Proposals on the financing of the European Union, the development of the common agricultural policy, structural policy and the enlargement of the European Union were presented in March 1998. We have never disputed the need for reforms in agricultural policy, because, of course, due to scientific progress, both plant breeding and farm-animal services are increasing and therefore more and more agricultural products are being offered on the market. [[Abg. Wabl: Go, stop!]] The European population, on the other hand, does not grow, and if marketing measures can increase the sales of a product, the sales of other products will suffer, so to speak, because Europeans are generally very well fed. [[Abg. Aumayr: The Schwarzenberger also!]] This result, which has been negotiated by several Councils of Agriculture Ministers, has now resulted in a compromise in which – which is also mentioned here – a series of Austrian claims, which were not present in the original draft, could be enforced. For example, this includes – always required by Austria – a calcareous premium that has not yet existed in the European Union as a CAP premium. This is also because no country with such a high share of the Alps was involved in the design of the common agricultural policy in 1992. In addition, there has also been a constant demand to introduce a base amount in Austria, for example, in the case of compensation in the mining sector. These measures could also be enforced. A hard criticism was also the financing of agricultural premiums, with the accusation that farmers receive 50 percent of the EU budget through the CAP premiums. It must already be noted that agricultural policy is the only area that is united. Neither the social sector nor the training sector nor the security and training sectors are combined, but these areas are paid by the respective national budgets. Making a comparison here will only be possible if we combine the EU budget and the national budgets of the 15 EU countries. The share of agricultural support then amounts to exactly 1.99 percent of public budgets. However, the school budgets for the agricultural schools are already included. As far as direct payments to farmers are concerned, the share is 1.7 percent. In this context, I recall the discussion held last week in the Committee on Transport, which is also on the agenda tomorrow. In the Committee, Minister On the other hand, the 8.5 billion Schilling paid from the Federal Railway's public service budget is called subsidies. Farmers' benefits are also public services! Is not the landscape care up to the glacier regions or the protection forest renovation or overall conservation of the cultural landscape a Community achievement? In the past there was a 35-billion-shilling package for the Bundesbahnen, and it has been spoken of creating a 45-billion-shilling package for these public services for the next time. I divided this amount by the number of persons concerned. The 8.5 billion schilling to the Bundesbahn divided by the around 50,000 railways results in an amount of 170 000 s per railways per year. This is 70 percent more than farmers get together on average from EU funding and national funding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: This isn't just a milkmaid bill, it's just a fool!]] I would just like to say with this example that not the farmers are those who, so to speak, are the most taxing taxpayers. Or an even easier bill: The Austrians spend 17 S per day on food and drink – this is about the amount that comes to the farmer. 17 S long with the farmer, and 7 S are still paid for the public service. Together are the 24 S for food and for the care of the cultural landscape. This corresponds roughly to the equivalent of two daily newspapers. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You're in government!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Why don't you do anything?]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You're in the government! You can't sell people for stupid!]] I just presented this. Because if it is always said that the farmers devour half of the budget, that is not true. That is where we need to make more accurate bills. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The outcome of Agenda 2000 is expected to be adopted tomorrow by the Heads of Government in Berlin. In turn, there will be a discussion – the German Chancellor climate has also announced this in the EU's main committee – about the degression of agricultural funding. I would ask the Austrian head of government that, when this debate on the degression begins, he should be committed to the fact that, in accordance with the proposal of Minister Molterer, it can only be a matter of size, from a certain size. [[Abg. Wabl: From what size? A million hectares?]] For it would really not be understood that the SPÖ only requires nationally to introduce economies of scale – we have them at the PUL, but we also have them in the compensation allowance, where the degression starts at 40 hectares and is not paid at more than 120 hectares, we have them at the cattle premiums with 90 premiums per holding per year – therefore we expect: If degression, then it can only be a degression in size. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Why don't you officially ask the Molterer? Why are you making a urgent? The Molterer already knows all of this!]] However, the outcome of the compromise in the Council of Agriculture Ministers also requires a national response. If we want to maintain the small-scale structure in Austria for the future – and we want it from the ÖVP – then we need measures such as the introduction of a base amount to improve the income of small farms in the mountain area. [[Abg. Aumayr: But you are making a different policy!]] This funding of the base amount gives us this opportunity, and in itself rural development. However, funding is currently in such a way that 75 percent must be financed nationally and 25 percent paid by the European Union. If this area needs to be increased, we must also increase the so-called 40 billion package, i.e. this Federal Republic of Germany package for agriculture, by the necessary amount. A second area: Investment promotion. This is an improvement because now there are the same opportunities for investment promotions as for full-time farms. According to the Green Report, in 1997, Austrian farmers invested 11.6 billion Schilling in machinery and around 18.5 billion Schilling investments in buildings. That is to say, the farmers have invested 30 billion schilling in a year, and these 30 billion schillings are a first-class job security in rural areas. It is also seen that payments granted to farmers are increased by 50 percent, because the total EU premiums and national payments to farmers amount to around 20 billion schillings, but 30 billion schillings have been invested by the farmers. This means that these funds are equally economic support because they are spent mainly in rural areas. Many jobs in rural areas are thus secured. What we also demand is that we create a single market for resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: After all!]] We do not have a level playing field in many areas, for example with German providers, because we have our own regulations in Austria. We cannot therefore spend these resources in Austria, although in almost all other areas there is a single market in Europe. That means we pay much more for operating funds. It has also announced in the main committee that a working group will be set up in the government looking for measures, as we can find better internal market rules for agricultural resources. One point that has always been demanded of us has been approved by God on the night of yesterday. The tax reform, which entails an adjustment of the pre-tax rate of 10 to 12 percent, will, after all, improve incomes of 2 percent for the flat-rate farms. If we bring it to a unit, it means: The milk price disbursement to the farmers will therefore be by 8 sizes per kg higher. If we know how, in the past, the dairies have been hit by large amounts, this is, after all, an acknowledged step that has been achieved here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Returning to the Committee's main meeting of 12. March of this year: The FPÖ has criticised the reversion of the direct marketing rate to the Molkerean delivery rate. To this end, I must say: The farmers have always demanded that. We have a direct marketing quota of 367,000 tonnes in Austria, but less than 200 000 tonnes have been used. Now there is the possibility that these 150 000 tonnes of unutilised land will be able to include the other farmers in their delivery. This is an advantage for farmers and not a disadvantage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] . I read from your request that you submit it to the EU's main committee meeting of 12. March. Or: The minimum age for achieving the slaughter premium for bulls, oxen, dairy cows and mother cows as well as for the first time a slaughter premium is introduced here, is reduced from nine to eight months. This is also a requirement that comes from agriculture, namely from the mother-breeding farms, which operate an adjustment mast, an intensive mast and can now sell them as a baby beef. Age plays a role in this. These are the benefits of farmers and not the disadvantages of the FPÖ. Either you no longer have any reference to practice, or someone has written you these applications, which really understands very little about agriculture. If, for example, point 5, the conditions for extensification are more stringent in the future, which is likely to disadvantage Austrian small-scale farms, the opposite is the case in the agricultural compromise. We now have a staggering, which at the beginning even goes up to two livestock units, while the extermination premium has so far been only below 1.4 livestock units. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In total, a number of things have been achieved for Austria during these negotiations. I am also saying - and this is also the comment of foreign farmers' representatives - that Minister Molterer has been very committed to these discussions and has brought many proposals from Austria to enforcement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The establishment of an integrated rural policy is a direction-setting step, as is the long-term safeguarding of environmental measures, such as OPUL 2000. Here we ask that the OPUL 2000 which gives us better opportunities – for example an increase of a billion schilling for environmental measures – also find the necessary counter-financing in Austria in the budget for 2000. Mining with base amounts will be possible in the future. I have already mentioned that additional workers in investment promotion are no longer discriminated against. However, the promotion of Community objects throughout the rural area is also possible. In the future, not only in 5b areas, but also in the whole rural area, those funding measures, which have so far only been possible in 5b areas, can be implemented for agriculture and also for Community projects. For the first time, forest conservation measures and forest renovations are also eligible for funding. It shows that the new accessions of the Scandinavian countries and Austria in 1995 have led countries with a high share of forests to the European Union, which has also made forestry more valuable. A discussion on this is necessary for fairness reasons over a professional group which already has below-average income but provides above-average benefits. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you to join us again in the negotiations of the Heads of Government tomorrow with the German Chancellor's climate that, if a degression is to be agreed, this can only be a major degression. Everything else would mean a deterioration of the situation of small farms or the ruin for small farms. Here too the SPÖ is required to confess color.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10682	The Federal Minister is now given the floor to answer the urgent question. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10703	Mr President. High house! I would like to take the urgent question to the House to give full information on the results of Agenda 2000, i.e. on what has been achieved for Austria, for Austria's farmers, and also on the further course of the negotiations, in particular with regard to the final question today and tomorrow in Berlin. The Agenda 2000, as presented by the Commission – and this has made Austria clear from the outset – has never been rejected by us, but has been critically assessed where it is necessary. I believe that this very reasonable attitude, which Austria has taken from the outset, has also given us the opportunity in this negotiation to enforce what is necessary for Austrian farmers. The main focus of the negotiations was from the outset on the market regulation issue, particularly in the milk sector, and it was apparent that two major groups within the European Union were crystallizing during this negotiations in the milk sector: Those countries which have a liberal approach to agricultural market policy are, in particular, Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark or Italy, and those which are more committed to farming, of course, Austria. At the heart of these negotiations was the central question of reducing intervention prices, which Austria has previously assessed very critically, but I would like to say once again that intervention prices are so-called fixed prices, where they are necessary, for example in intervention. However, it is not a question of restricting market prices, but it must be the agricultural policy objective that the actual market prices, the proceeds received by farmers, will continue to be above intervention prices in the future. It was also a priority that we should continue to maintain control of quantities in the future in the key areas, such as the milk quota, such as set-aside in the cereals sector, because the control elements represent important elements of agricultural policy. And it is clear that the question of rural development from the outset plays a key role in the reconception of the European Union's agricultural policy. I also consider this rural development to be very central for Austria and the specific Austrian conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! The negotiations on Agenda 2000 have therefore succeeded in achieving a great deal for Austria, which is important for the Austrian farmers. A positive development has succeeded in bringing positive impetus to rural regions. It is clear that we have succeeded in preventing some serious deterioration. I would like to stress, however, that in spite of these measures that we have succeeded, the agenda and the reform of agricultural policy for Austrian agriculture will be a major challenge everywhere. It's not beautiful, it's quite clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the individual questions. Question 1: The European model of agriculture, as adopted by the Ministers of Agriculture in November 1997, means to have a competitive agriculture, to have a multifunctional agriculture, to ensure sustainable land management and to ensure cross-border management also in the less favoured regions. These elements of Agenda 2000 are quite interesting when I think about rural development, for example, when I think about the milk quota scheme as a safeguard of the management possibility, when I think about environmental orientation, when I think about the measures in the mountain area, so that we can say that the compromise proposal now before us makes a contribution to ensuring the European model of agriculture. It is clear, however, that in the future the European Union needs constant effort to defend the European agricultural model in international competition. On questions 2, 3, 4 and 5, all of which concern rural development: For the Austrian Presidency, it was clear from the outset that rural development will play a key role as the second pillar of the European Union's common agricultural policy. Austria has therefore also dedicated this issue to the informal council in St. Wolfgang, which was a real success. On the basis of the Austrian preparatory work and on the basis of the negotiations of the Austrian Presidency, the Regulation on Rural Development has now been completed. The Regulation manifests and establishes the promotion of rural development by the EAGGF as the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. This rural regulation includes the previous accompanying measures on the agricultural market, as well as the new elements of rural development. Austria has dealt with this rural development in the context of the "Agricultural Future Austria" project in good time, so that we are in a position to be able to make the best use of it for Austria by the year 2000. Its main focus is on the long-term protection of agricultural environmental programmes – thus ensuring the solid basis for our Austrian environmental programme in the future – and the new mining promotion that will allow us to introduce the co-financed base amount for the smaller farms in the mountain areas from the year 2000 onwards – an important measure to preserve our rural structure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] It has succeeded in eliminating discrimination against the auxiliary farmers in the field of investment promotion, because I felt it necessary from the Austrian structure to come to equal treatment here. There will also be sector plans for the processing industry in the future with regard to their competitiveness. There will be new project opportunities in the forestry sector, an important income level in our farm-structured agriculture and forestry, and it will – that is new – provide cooperation projects across rural areas and not just in 5b areas between agriculture, economy, tourism, gastronomy and commerce, which serve to strengthen the life force of rural areas. The financing of this rural development is ensured. About EUR 5 billion a year is available for this rural development. Co-financing is fixed 50 percent for environmental programmes, between 25 and 50 percent for all other programmes. On questions 6, 7, 8 and 9 concerning beef and veal market rules: The Austrian attitude in the negotiations was clear from the outset: We want as little price reduction as possible, we want control elements, we want intervention as a safety net also in the future, and we need to maintain our quotas, as negotiated in the Accession Treaty, and the inclusion of female cattle in the premium regime, in particular the question of calcin, which plays a key role in the mountain regions in the western part of Austria. The result: Intervention prices are not reduced by 30 percent as planned, but by 20 percent. [[Abg. Wenitsch: Bravo!]] It is possible to have a security intervention in the future. The premiums are increased for all animal categories. The suckler cow quota and the male cattle quota remain unchanged for Austria. It will improve the extension premium, which is important for our businesses in disadvantaged areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a specific solution for Austria as regards the question of calcin in the mountain areas. We can use a share of the suckler cow quota for the specific promotion. A general slaughter premium is introduced for all animal categories in the bovine sector, i.e. for bulls, oxen, cows and calves as well as for slaughter calves – an important instrument for the control of quantities. On questions 10, 11, 12 and 13 concerning milk: For Austria and Austria's agriculture, milk is the key area, so from an Austrian point of view, the negotiating position was clear: safeguarding the milk quota also for the coming period; to a large extent the possibility of introducing an income compensation in the dairy sector in the future; take into account mountain areas in the area of milk production; Provisions for active milk producers and as little as possible reduction in prices in this area. The result: The milk quota will continue unchanged until 2006. A review will be carried out in 2003 on what will take place from 2006. In the field of reform, it is not as planned to implement from 2000 onwards, as it has succeeded in extending this deadline until 2003 and only then will this reform become effective. As proposed by the Commission, the 15 per cent price reduction will take place from 2003 onwards, but the income compensation for dairy farmers has been changed: It will not, as proposed, take place on the basis of the virtual cow, but on the basis of the milk quota. As a substitute for the planned and unrealised increase in the milk quota in the mountain areas, the expansion premium for dairy cows in the mountain areas was very important for the Austrian mountain farming industry. A linear increase in the milk quota will also occur for Austria by 1.5 percent from 2003 onwards, which is 41 000 tonnes. Furthermore, it has succeeded in imposing a specific Austrian requirement, namely the long-term demand for the conversion of unexploited D-Quots of 150 000 tonnes into supply quotas; an important and forward-looking scheme for the Austrian dairy industry. On questions 14, 15 and 16 concerning arable crops: I say immediately that the field of agricultural culture is within the scope of the agenda, where we really have to expect great problems. There's nothing to beautify. This is a difficult part of the overall compromise of Agenda 2000. As originally proposed, the price reduction will amount to 20 percent, but not at once, but in two stages. There will be opportunities to implement the set-aside in the future. In the first two years of reform, the set-aside rate will be 10 percent. There will be a uniform area premium in the cereals sector, which will be increased and available uniformly for all crops. There are exceptions: For protein plants, there is a supplement to this uniform crop scheme, as well as durum wheat. Oilseeds are reduced to the single area premium in three stages. There are some changes I think are important. It is true, for example, that the payment of premiums will not take place until the following year, but in the year in which the harvest takes place. In the end, this is also important for ensuring the payout points for our Austrian farmers. In the area of starch potato production, the premium is higher than originally proposed by the Commission. In return, the starch potato ratio is reduced to a small extent. In particular in the cereals sector, it is therefore important to give the answers already addressed from the Austrian perspective. This concerns, for example, the rapid approval of the ÖPUL 2000 environmental programme. I would like to inform you that, as a draft, ÖPUL 2000 is now under negotiation in Brussels, and the notification has been made by the Ministry of Agriculture. On questions 17 and 18 concerning wine market: In principle, I would like to say that the reform of the wine market system in the European Union has produced a very reasonable result; a very reasonable result in that the price discipline in European wine production remains fundamental. There is only a very small plantation possibility, which for Austria is about 700 hectares. There are new instruments in the wine market system for the conversion of varieties, for the cleaning of flora and for improved management techniques. This will support the necessary modernisation of the sector. In the wine sector, producer organisations and industry associations have a greater importance in the future than they have previously. The oenological procedures, i.e. the methods of wine preparation, remain unchanged. The status quo in wine önology remains. We can therefore continue to achieve our special quality with our traditional methods in the future. Important Austrian claims have been enforced in terms of designation law and trade with third countries. On question 19 concerning the cost of the reform: The Commission has calculated that the cost of the reform, as decided by the Ministers of Agriculture, will amount to some EUR 314 billion for the period 2000 to 2006. As a result, this financial volume is about 0.5 percent above the level initially proposed by the Commission at EUR 312 billion. There has been a debate on the degression in this context. Austria has introduced the model of the company-size degression as a clear alternative to the time degression. At the level of the agricultural ministers, a result was finally achieved, which means neither a temporary degression nor a degression according to farm sizes. Austria has stated in a Protocol: Should the debate on the temporary degression come to the table again of negotiations, Austria will, of course, put on the table the model of business-size modulation, i.e. the staggering according to operating sizes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: When does it have a view? What time horizon for modulation?]] This attitude, ladies and gentlemen, is a position of the Austrian Federal Government and is therefore represented at all levels of negotiation by the respective members of the government. Question 20: I think the agenda, as decided by the Ministers of Agriculture, is a reasonable basis for the negotiations of the European Union in the context of the next WTO round. Why? Firstly, because this decision gives the agenda clarity about the European position. Europe speaks with one voice and not with several votes. Secondly, The agenda means a shift from intervention prices and export refunds to direct income transfers. Thirdly, The cost of export refunds – a very critical chapter in the WTO – will fall through the agenda. Under the horizontal regulation, it will be necessary to impose ecological requirements on market organisation premiums. It is also planned that rural development in the field of environmental standards or animal welfare standards should be "feducated" with them, so that these elements at the forthcoming WTO negotiations will allow the European Union to engage in offensive negotiations in the WTO and will not be pushed into the defensive by the negotiators, as would otherwise have been feared. A WTO success will only be possible for Europe if it is offensive and uniform to the WTO negotiators. On question 21: Priority on enlargement was given from the outset to ensuring the necessary funding. In my view, therefore, it is a crucial step that the agricultural guidelines are not disputed; the agricultural guidelines which will ensure the necessary financial framework in the future. In the event of an extension during this period, i.e. between 2000 and 2006, it is necessary to review the financial perspective and, if necessary, to make necessary adjustments. The only concrete decision under Agenda 2000 is that the so-called pre-accession aid will be financed for the applicant countries – in my view, an important step, because these funds in these countries will ultimately also be used to implement those standards which lead to more competitive justice. In the context of enlargement, I should like to refer once again to the Austrian model of farm size recession, which is a very important dimension for future design in the context of the European Union's wants with its agricultural structures – large farms. On the question 22: Austria continues to have the goal of anchoring the market rules for renewable raw materials in the field of agricultural crops. That was in the In the course of these negotiations, Agenda 2000 is not possible – in brackets: not yet. It is important to build on rural development the possibility of providing support for renewable raw materials, in particular in the investment part. However, we will continue this debate at European level, and the price package will allow Austria, together with other partner countries, to take a new initiative in this direction. They know that the Federal Government has set itself the goal of creating an addition of biodiesel to diesel oil – an important ecological measure. I can tell you that in the course of the political final negotiations on tax reform, up to 2% of rape methyl esters have been achieved if they are mixed with diesel to achieve mineral oil tax freedom – an important ecological facet. On the question of 23 which national measures are necessary: I said clearly: The results of the agenda require national answers because we want to continue the Austrian path of agriculture in the future. I see four major approaches to this: Firstly, further steps to relieve agricultural holdings. I would like to tell you - and that has already been said - that political clarity and agreement in the Federal Government is that the percentage of the tax rate for turnover-offaled farms will be increased from 10 to 12. This means 1.2 billion schilling for the Austrian farmers – an important step. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to give a second example: Mr Prammer and I have agreed that a novel of the Animal Health Act, which will be presented shortly, will replace the comprehensive investigation in some animal diseases with a sample investigation. Since we have a high standard of health, we can afford it. This change is a relief for farmers from research costs without endangering health. Second priority: Ensuring national co-financing. We need the clear signals given by the federal and state governments in the framework of the 40 billion package so that rural development can take place in an optimal way. Thirdly, We will present a rural programme. That means: Environment, ÖPUL 2000, base amount and all the other areas we wish to make offensive use of for the Austrian farmers. And fourthly, It must be clear that, given the outcome of the agenda, it is of central importance to continue to fight in a massive way for it, to take action and also to create the scope for the market position of the Austrian farmers – for example: Producer organisations – improve. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On question 24 concerning timetable: As you know, today the European Council of Heads of State or Government and tomorrow the final negotiations on Agenda 2000 are taking place. I assume that the Heads of State or Government will succeed in presenting an overall outcome of Agenda 2000. It is clear that this overall result is only given if the agricultural part is included. The vast majority of the Member States have clearly stated that the content of the agricultural package does not make sense. I therefore assume that tomorrow we will have a result of the agenda. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say the following: My goal and the objective of the Austrian Federal Government remains unchanged: We want strong rural family businesses in a strong and dynamic rural area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10794	Thank you, Minister of State. We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes, with a single Member speaking for no longer than 10 minutes. Mr Schwarzböck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10824	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The objective of the Austrian integration efforts before the 1. It was in the European internal market in January 1995 to play a role in the European objectives of the European Union and not to be pushed into a defensive role by the position of third countries. [[Call:See Switzerland]] We can say today that Agenda 2000 at the present negotiating stage is a clear example and the fact that we can implement this project. The results so far presented to the Berlin Council Summit clearly bear an Austrian manuscript. To a considerable extent, we have been able to bring Austrian positions into this European reform project, into the guidelines of the next seven years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] The starting point in the field of agricultural market regulation and common agricultural policy was anything but simple. The concept of the basis of the negotiations, presented by Commissioner Fischler, has resulted from multi-annual discussions. At the beginning of the discussions on this concept, there were a number of developments which signalled a further pressure to change, favourable market developments on the world market. Unfortunately, we had to find in the past year that a number of these favourable conditions have seriously deteriorated. Minister Molterer was just able to show clearly in his answer to all 24 questions that it was possible, with consistent work – and I would like to thank him very much for this – to accommodate a number of important national successes for the Austrian farmers and the whole Republic, for consumers, taxpayers, for the further development of our country, without having to question our vision of Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that our special agricultural structure, our special topography, both in the field of rural development and in market areas, especially in milk and cattle, has been taken into account, is a foundation on which we can continue to build. The discussions held by the Heads of Government, Finance Ministers and Foreign Ministers in Berlin today and tomorrow deal mainly with the question of whether this informal agreement between the Agriculture Ministers can be formally decided whether the budget is secured and whether this outcome is finalized politically. I hope that some questions will be answered tomorrow, namely: Does the budget which the Ministers of Agriculture consider necessary? Is it still possible for this policy to continue in partnership for seven years and consistently with the corresponding compensatory measures? There is a country that wants to set up the package in order to improve the situation in the near future and in the short term, especially its farmers, namely France, in order to achieve even greater support for the French farmers in the area of the suckler cow premium and also a reduction in the price of cereals. I cannot be pleased at this because these demands are linked to the progressive development of compensation payments for the last years of the agenda period, with an annual agricultural budget of EUR 40.5 billion being reached at the end. We are mainly concerned with averting this degression. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the 1993 reform concept, in the final period, European farmers have been offered compensation for massive price reductions in respect of the WTO negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! In keeping these compensatory payments, in recent price cuts, it is not only a matter of putting on the bill – this is also important, and for this we as a farmer and as an Austrian People's Party have understood; we have often proved this with our responsible budget policy – but above all also about credibility and a basis of trust. And the European project still needs credibility and trust. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: We will send this speech to all the Lower Austrian farmers!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You can do that! We even ask you to do so!]] I am therefore sure that our Austrian negotiators, German Chancellors climate, Foreign Minister Schüssel and Finance Minister Edlinger, will take action to finalise this package, as it stands. The budget areas which are still under discussion in this context are essentially in a size which does not even correspond to the inflation forecast. We know that, in the case of the most responsible budgetary policy, a half-percent scattering area cannot basically be undermined, anything else would be word-claubing. Even the larger amount in terms of the size specified by ECOFIN, as measured by the total tax revenue of the European Union, is 2% out of 2% – as well as being a trained head computer, one is no longer able to calculate the detailed sizes mathematically. I therefore believe that in this overall problem area, at this difficult stage after the Commission's resignation, it is a question of concluding the reform, deciding on and consistently implementing Agenda 2000. It is quite likely that this increase in budgeting will be decided and borne by the community and partnership for the entire seven-year period by 0.5 percent to 314 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not have enough time to address in detail the motions for resolutions already distributed by the Freedom Party: It should not be so easy to point out, on the one hand, that France wants to take back something budgetaryly and, on the other hand, calls on the Federal Government to put up with the package rather than make improvements. It is quite clear that the routing of the package would also bring incalculable risks to the Austrian farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] That is why we are in favour of raising this package for decision-making and, like the government decision on VAT tax reform, we are taking the first step and following the next one. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: How long have you been holding the farmers with VAT?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This is indescribable! That's hypocrisy to the square! Vulnerability to the square!]] I should also like to comment on the second request: You will, of course, try again today to bring us to reject your motion for a resolution on the reduction of diesel oil prices. We know what it means to keep the budget in the last months of a budget year. And you can be sure: What we have brought together in VAT, we will continue in partnership with the coalition. This is what you are calling for today in the motion for a resolution, which you are essentially trying to tick us out, one of our next work projects, which we are going to implement just as much as the VAT question which we have basically solved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will be important for us to try together to produce everything for the market and to get as little as possible into intervention in view of the spreads of intervention. Their intention to weaken the AMA with a further motion for a resolution was precisely the opposite of safeguarding farmers' existence. [[Abg. Aumayr: What does "weak" mean?]] In our course, we will not let ourselves be confused by anything and continue the success for the Austrian farmers with this common, partnership policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e10985	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11006	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today's urgent request for Agenda 2000 offers the opportunity to discuss how agricultural policy will develop in Europe from an Austrian perspective in the future. Mr Schwarzenberger! Addressed by you and especially fixed with your eyes when it came to supporting the magnification, I can remind you of the following: Since 1995, this has been a massive demand of the Social Democratic Party. In one of the last EU's main committee meetings, I have already expressed my support after the Federal Minister had brought this proposal into the EU Council's deliberations. I have only noticed that it may be a little late, especially in the light of 1995 when the situation was quite different and the Austrian People's Party has not yet been very open to these proposals. I am all the more pleased that these proposals have been accepted and are now being discussed at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... Austria introduced!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to refer to one of the last agricultural debates here in the House, in which I pointed out that there is a limit to a social tolerance limit in relation to the distribution and allocation of funds. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Four years ago you last made pressure on this question!]] Mr Wabl! I don't know how many times you've been absent, but in the last four years this has happened a few times. But I am happy to help you and bring you the requests and also the decisions that are going in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! The Agenda 2000 to be concluded was and is therefore an opportunity for the European agricultural policy and also for the Austrian agricultural policy on the one hand, but on the other hand also presents risks. Some of the risks that can be identified for me in this decision are in the light of the beginning WTO negotiations – I hope that Europe's unity will be stronger this time than the last GATT conclusion – and also with regard to EU enlargement. I believe that a number of measures are needed here, which I will be able to discuss later. Reform of the European agricultural policy means change, must change and must also mean improvement. From a social democratic point of view, change and improvement would also be linked to the introduction of a single-company ceiling on promotions, and also – and in this I agree with colleagues Schwarzenberger – the introduction of base amounts in mountain areas, disadvantaged areas and those regions in which the most difficult work is done to produce a certain product if this work cannot be paid on the market. Another aspect on which discussions are still ongoing and which is already being held in Europe from a social democratic point of view is the employment aspect. The demand to link the promotions to the workplace situation, to the intensity of work, to the workplace is not only raised by the Social Democrats. I know from conferences at European level, where I have had the honour of other Member States representing and discussing these approaches. Also, as an article in the last issue of "Agrar Europe" can be found, the service in the country of the Evangelical Church and the Catholic People's Movement of Germany mean - I quote - that, compared to the previous funding instruments, it would be useful to help the labour force, because it would at least be possible to keep it, if not even to increase it. Against the background of the employment debate in Europe, I believe that this would be one of the most important aspects. Therefore, the demand of the Social Democrats of Austria continues to be maintained, as support criteria, not to use the area and the number of animals, Mr Wabl, but the labour force associated with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me address another point, ladies and gentlemen, namely rural development. Rural development is an absolutely positive approach. But I would like to say that rural development and rural areas must not only be viewed from a purely agricultural perspective, but also from a socio-political point of view, because rural areas are not just farms, but rural areas are rural economies. And if we manage to make use of the structural changes now envisaged, the changes in the regulation of the Objective Areas, so that these funds actually flow socially in rural areas and can be implemented there, then I am convinced that we can preserve rural areas alive. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a "clean" urgent that not even the government parties are there to listen!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I refer to the points also mentioned by my previous speakers, such as the financing of national nature. I believe - and this has always been said - that we must stand by the agreements that are necessary to maintain Austrian agriculture in this structure. However, there are several increases in resources, and there is still more to be discussed, because without a financing proposal it is very difficult to agree. And I repeat what I mentioned at the outset: All those who are seriously dealing with agricultural policy must also remember that these funds must be raised by the company, by taxpayers. It is therefore also about maintaining this tolerance and understanding. I hope that this reform, coupled with Agenda 2000, will also help us to benefit from our strengths, our agricultural strengths in the biological field, our opportunities for marketing, and also that, as the Minister of State also pointed out in his speech, the communities which have formed themselves in order to market the products will be supported in the future. At this level, the debate can take place, and at this level I am convinced that we can benefit from the opportunities that this agenda entails, that the risks can be minimized and that the Austrian agricultural policy is a forward-looking one for farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11086	Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayr's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11107	Minister! High house! This urgent question – which is also addressed to the two government parties – is really a abuse of Parliament, as all 24 questions have been answered in this booklet by the Minister of Agriculture. [[Complaints with the liberals]] All 24 questions! So I really have to say, First of all, cut down You through this theater that you perform there, the rights of the opposition. But you do the same with the farmers' right hand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is always the case with your inquiries!]] There is one reason for this urgent question: This is where Members are forced to listen. The farmers no longer hear these stands and these general places from the ministers and from the blacks. They're running you in crowds! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The quick in Salzburg says something else!]] [[Call to the liberals.]] This policy, Mr Schwarzenberger, leaves only two farmers, called Rosemarie and Holger, because all the others are broken by this agricultural policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzböck! It's really significant! In all the newspaper articles in which your statements on the agenda have been quoted, you said: A yes to Agenda 2000 and to the price reductions it provides only if the income losses are paid to farmers by 100 percent. You said that! And now you are producing and praising this result, with which farmers' income losses are not paid nearer. If you are so satisfied with this GATT reform, why have you demonstrated in Brussels? Then why did you put on this theater if it's so good anyway? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to tell you: You don't think it's right in the back and in the front. Agenda 2000 is the most expensive work destruction in history, Mr Schwarzenberger! And the Commission knows that too. The Commission has commissioned a study and it states: Results of Agenda 2000 – 3 million farms are rationalised. That is 5 million unemployed, Mr Schwarzenberger. This is the result of this GATT reform. The dependence of farmers on public support increases. Now the dependence on bureaucracy is already 70 percent, then it will be 80 and 90 percent. Minister Molterer! In addition: This is not a reform, and you know it very well! Because what have you reformed? You have removed the surpluses by increasing the milk quota. Please, that's the worst thing at all! You say the reform is necessary to reduce surpluses and at the same time increase the milk quota! How stupid do you think the farmers are? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It continues to be supported by land and livestock. The Queen of England will continue to cash 60 million schilling from the Brussels agricultural pot. [[Abg. Koppler: This is a sourry!]] That's still the same thing. Who are the winners? [[Abg. Wabl: The Haider!]] – Only the food companies. Unilever's already rubbing his hands. And you know that very well! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Not winners, profiters mean that!]] There has been no reform at all, it is nothing but the financing of Easter enlargement. And that is why farmers' incomes must be reduced so dramatically. Mr Kletzmayr from Upper Austria knows that. In the "Oberösterreichische Rundschau" he says on 28. February 1999: The farmers are opponents of Easter enlargement. But it cannot be that the farmers also have to pay them themselves. . Mr President, that is what we already know. But he tells the farmers that these price cuts are necessary to get rid of the surpluses. It is indescribable what game you drive with the farmers! Minister Molterer! They have been totally pulled over the table in Brussels. There's nothing left to do with it. No business degression! Where is the degression of businesses, Mr. Colleague? Where is she? - She's gone! Not a milk quota for the miners, Mr Molterer, not for the young transferees, but generally for those who already have a quota! No alternative energy decision. Where is she? - Nowhere. On all lines, Minister Molterer, you have fallen down, and now you go here and sell it as a success that the price of cattle has not been reduced by 30 per cent, but only by 20 per cent. Congratulations, Minister Molterer, this is already a great result! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer.]] The evidence of your failure is now the call for national measures. If you had negotiated well, you would have gotten the money for the farmers in Brussels. But no, you've been badly negotiated, are on all fours, are out on the belly, and now you're calling for national measures. What national measures do you think, Minister? Do you mean the promised operating funds? Do you think they are? You have rejected these six times in the past. You will be given the opportunity today to agree to an appropriate request that we will make. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where is the bill?]] You, Mr Minister, are responsible for the fact that the VAT adjustment promised to farmers since 1995 has not yet been paid out. How long do you want to lead the farmers behind the light? What national measures will be taken Are you, Mr Minister, or are you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, in the social field? Do you, for example, think of the social measures in the case of ancillary workers? ................................................................................................................................................................ But if they become unemployed and have a unit value of more than 60 000 s, they do not get schilling. This injustice still keeps you upright! Today, they will have the opportunity to remove this injustice from the world. As the Commissioners have pointed out, this must be presented; those Commissioners who are now no longer nominated. Mr Schwarzenberger, your colleague, Fischler, as a non-commissioner, will receive, as it were, 100 000 S net per month, and that for three years! You have to imagine that! [[Abg. Dr Gredler: More!]] Please, that's my last information. Transitional payment for three years plus reintegration payments, i.e. compensation and a pension! The additional farmers, Mr Schwarzenberger, will let you pay, and if they become unemployed, they will not get schilling! For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The last request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: There must be the Christian child or the Easter rabbit!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! This is exactly the same word-identifiably, with which the Upper Austrian Farmers' Association now collects signatures from the farmers. We will make the nail sample with you again today!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11356	The applications are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11381	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry that we are not talking about the Agenda 2000 as a whole, but only about the chapter on agriculture. I am sorry because there is much more to talk about, including in Parliament. In Austria as one of the few states, parliamentarians did not have the opportunity to have a debate with the Federal Government as a result of the resignation of the entire Commission. Neither official nor unofficial, it was possible at least to take the opinion of the House's representatives on the difficult negotiations that are now taking place in Berlin. I think this is very bad because there is a lot we should discuss here. We should discuss that there is Agenda 2000 because we also want to have an enlargement of the European Union, an enlargement that makes sense to create and maintain jobs, makes sense to maintain peace in Europe where it exists, and makes sense because we want to honor our neighbours and join them in the family. What is happening here is a reduction of the problem to farmers who are admittedly faced with a difficult situation. Agenda 2000 goes far beyond this framework. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We did not talk about tax harmonisation. For example, we have not talked about a CO2 tax whose introduction in Brussels is being severely debated. We have not talked about harmonizing VAT. All these are measures that should, of course, lead to EU funding. No, at the request of the EIA, we are limited only to agricultural expenditure. Please! We are limited to agricultural expenditure. And what I do not understand – Mr Federal Minister, if you could lend me your ear! . is that you are proud that you have been able to water down all the changes that the Commission has proposed. I really think that's a problem. The Commission and the Ministers for Agriculture have recognized that the agricultural policy, as it has so far been, cannot be financed. They praise the fact that you are moving reforms far, far behind, that you are slowing down the process, that you do not want to reform the structures that are crying out for reform, but only to change a small wheel here and there. The problem you don't solve with it has perpetuated you throughout eternity. That, Mr. Federal Minister, I hold you personally. Problems must be solved, and they must not be moved. This is the approach you should have chosen while you were negotiating in Brussels. But if you say here that you are incredibly proud of it or – how did you formulate it?, I have written it down – it is a success if you postpone a reform, then that is, I think, as if I were to say as a doctor: I get the sick to secure my income. This has nothing to do with dealing with the problem, but it is actually a piggy! And I am sorry that this is happening in this way. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Agriculture is reformed, and you are also of this opinion. You can also see the problems. I also see the problems of those farmers who are at risk of their existence. We need farmers where they manage and maintain our rural area. However, we do this differently from you! The Liberals have the approach that they say... [[Abg. May. Stadler: The political corrects! To compare farmers with a disease!]] Yes, you have a very strong voice that I do not have, but I would like to point you in a private body to the questions of basic security and also how to introduce it at the rural level. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't need to give a private body! Your party would never accept if we compared farmers to a disease!]] Basic security for farmers is the foreign exchange and not promotions where they actually disappear only in pots, which is not understandable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should only make matching comparisons! Not all that limps is a comparison!]] One, I must say, Mr Minister of Agriculture, is that it is still to be criticised. It is a presumption to say that Commissioner Fischler is completely innocent and that Commissioner Fischler has no problems at all in his area as regards corruption and the mismanagement of the wrong channels. It has been shown that about 5 per cent of agricultural funds are being abused. It is only Commissioner Fischler who has not been examined by the Council of Weisenrat, and that is why no accusation has been made. But if it is claimed that Commissioner Fischler is completely innocent, I would put it in the room once that this is not true. There is a lot, a lot of money in the EU's agricultural sector, which disappears and simmers into dark channels. That's what he should get under control! But when he says, I have a white vest, and therefore I can enter the new Commission anyway! This is not true until the Council of Wise Men has confirmed what it claims to have taken all the measures that are only possible to deal with these cases. He didn't fix a mismanagement he knew. He has a fellowmanship that he did not force the Commission to disband itself at a much earlier time. And the Federal Government must very well be criticised by the opposition. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In other words, if we do not want to change structures within Austria, but simply to increase the dependence of farmers, this means that the consumer is asked to cash twice: by means of direct promotion and by means of subsidies paid to support those products sold on the world market and only in the form of subsidies. That's wrong. We cannot ask consumers to check out twice and say that this is a great reform. This is not a reform, but at best a reminder of how it should be different in the future! In this context, I would like to allow myself to make a motion for a resolution by the Liberals on precisely this issue, such as the long-term absence of the fixed production quotas for milk and other agricultural products. The structural change has been inhibited or delayed. I read to: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why do you want to kill all Austrian farmers?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is enough if the ÖVP kills two thirds of it!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: After your request only more farmers with more than 200, 300 hectares will remain!]] I believe that we have tried, on a resolution which is forward-looking, to get those areas in a regulatory form, that we should not kill farmers or scrap consumers, but that there must be a balance between people – 5 percent of Europe's workforce is active in agriculture – and a social compensation that we should be compensated for on the one hand. Page this 5 percent very well supported, but on the other hand the other 95 percent do not forget, namely where unemployment...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11511	Mrs Gredler, your speaking time is exhausted, and you have not read the first sentence of the motion for a resolution before "in the field of agricultural policy...".
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11526	Excuse me, Mr President, for reading this, I am very sure: "In the field of agricultural policy, intervention prices are the first step towards the European Commission..."
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11544	And that is the crucial point of the resolution. I'll draw your attention to this one.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11560	Excuse me, Mr President, you are absolutely right – as always! I must therefore correct myself: [[Quoted print version removed]] Excuse me, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11596	The speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11611	I'll end my speech with that.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11642	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11663	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler, the agricultural speaker of the Liberals has not spoken today. I don't know what numbers he offered here. If the forecast is true, Agenda 2000 will reduce the number of farms by a third, then your programme does not mean a reduction of farms by a third, but according to your programme, only more than one third of the farmers are left. What you have outlined here today may be a "liberal" program – under quotation marks – but it completely explores the situation, as what you understand as liberality has little to do with agriculture and the complexity of an ecological dimension. Ladies and gentlemen! I thought at the last debate, when we discussed Agenda 2000, that there was hardly any increase in the bizarre situation in this House. I have already mentioned this for the last time: What kind of parliamentary democratic world is this in which the Minister of Agriculture comes from the ÖVP, who is a Commissioner for Agriculture in Brussels from the ÖVP and who has to demonstrate the high-ranking farmers' representatives in Brussels and receive water yards there? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The PKK may demonstrate, but not the farmers!]] What kind of world is that? I thought there was no further increase in this absurd democratic situation. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is another allowance. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made a very urgent request to its own Minister, and has provided him with urgent and sharp advice, which will ultimately be done for the farmers. [[Call to the Freeman: The Schwarzenberger really does not know!]] It is in itself a sharp instrument to bring things into the agenda, which are otherwise not accessible, where the opposition has little opportunity to get answers to certain questions. But today Schwarzenberger and Schwarzböck obviously use this sharp opposition instrument as a retortion measure against the wet reception in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand, because once again what Mr Gradwelt and Mr. Molterer have debated in "On the Matter" four years ago, namely social justice in the distribution of allowances, in the distribution of market regulation expenditure,... – It was Kostelka. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Kostelka!]] Sorry, it wasn't grade welfare; not yet, he might still be. However, with the part it is difficult in social democracy. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] At that time, Mr Kostelka really got the social-democratic anger red face when it came to what was wrong. And now, Mr Molterer, the Minister for Agriculture, is coming up with a proposal on social justice. And so you can see what was obviously possible here in the coalitionary climate: It was about a premium reduction from a promotion level – guess from the Social Democrats once so that you can calm down a bit of pink! – of only 1.032 million. From this level of support, social staggering, degression should take place. Ladies and gentlemen! You should think that this was a moderate proposal from Mr Molterer in Brussels, which was agreed with the Social Democrats who have anchored their hearts in social justice. No, not even that went on! This social question has been completely ignored. And today the Minister of Agriculture announces: If the question of social staggering in the field of promotions, market regulation expenditure comes to the fore again, then we will bring our model back into play. Ladies and gentlemen! 1 million schilling of subsidies – should this limit be reduced only? – Not even that, Mr Gradwelt! Four years ago, your group fully documented here in this House, on the street and in television broadcasts: No, we do not agree with this budget. We're not going with social democrats! If the Greens want these wrong things, please nice! But we of the Social Democrats want social justice! Today you stand with your beautiful Fischler-Bart here and say: We really want social justice, but it's not ready yet! We only have the Commissioner in Brussels, we only have a Social Democratic in Paris on the government, we only have a Social Democratic in Bonn on the government, we only have a Social Democratic in London on the government, we only have one in Rome – oye, we still do not have enough! [[Abg. May. Stadler: London!]] The social democratic heart needs the majority throughout Europe, the absolute one! Only then can we finally enforce social justice – and those people who get more than 1 million out of funding will cut it a little! – This is the credo of social democracy. Mr Gradwelt, I would like to tell you the following: In the last few weeks, there has been a great deal of political activity, and the lesson of democracy policy, which the Social Democratic movement in particular had to learn, should give you some thought. A social democrat who deserves at least the respect of those who believe that he has spent his life in social justice, namely, Mr Lafontaine, has been fought on all lines: from the economy, from the conservatives, from the money sector, from the coupon cutters, from the stock exchange speculators and so on. When he resigned – a social democrat not of lightweight, not as many in other governments – the euro immediately increased. That's what I thought: Who has the political say in Europe? – Mr Molterer, Mr Fischler, Mr Schwarzböck, the demonstrating farmers in Brussels, or others who want to trim European agriculture on a global market where no farmer can produce something under fair social conditions? Of this income, no farmer can live worldwide unless he lives in South America or in Africa! There the farmers get even less. There they do not even get what we have to pay in the main square or in the main station for cloning. They don't even get that much there as a daily wage. If But for such a market Your social democratic governments, so that they can't even enforce these ridiculous things, I ask you: What does politics have to do with parliamentarianism in such a Europe? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have drawn up a very serious proposal in connection with the reduction of subsidies, not only in Austria but also in Germany. It is a socially balanced proposal. It has even been calculated by the Commission officials, and it has been found that it would not only be balanced but would ultimately have a more positive influence on the overall conditions of production and on the social component of employment. We have made the proposal to grant up to a premium entitlement of 210 000 S a surcharge of 15 percent. Why didn't that find your support? Furthermore, the proposal is to remain equal in the range of 210 000 S to 420 000 S and not to deduct premiums. As a result, 90 percent of Austrian farmers are already covered. In addition, premium claims of up to 700 000 S should be deducted by 15 percent, then up to 1.4 million schillings a reduction of 30 percent, and in the case of premium claims in the range of 1.4 million to 2.8 million schilling, a deduction of 45 percent should be made. That's already 0.0 percent of so-called farmers. Among them are farmers, which is not a question, but it is about farmers who were most wealthy and rich in their lives. For premium claims over 2.8 million schilling, a premium deduction of 60 percent is planned. Funding of more than 2.8 million schilling! And you, Mr Gradwelt, are not able to achieve something here! – Because You don't have anyone in the government! You're sitting on opposition banks, like the ÖVP! The ÖVP must make a urgent request so that it can at last heat up a bit of information from the informed government bank, so that one of the government banks – or two; since now the Minister of Finance is negotiating outside Berlin – can learn something about political reality.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11744	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11760	Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Group will have to fight more strongly for further democratisation in all these areas. It has become more difficult, it has become harder since EU accession. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have been for it too!]] EU accession was used as a vehicle for further decentralisation and depoliticisation of all social areas. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11836	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e11857	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aumayr, at the beginning of your speech, you said that the introduction of this urgent question was a misuse of Parliament and theater. [[Abg. Wenitsch: This was also confirmed by Wabl!]] If you think that there is a debate on agricultural problems in Parliament on abuse and theater, then that is significant for what you think about the problems of farmers at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They also submitted a request for the renationalisation of agricultural policy. Do you know what that would mean? – That each country lays down its own production laws, such as Italy and Germany. [[Abg. Aumayr: So what?]] This would also mean that milk quotas would be abolished. What this means for milk prices, you probably can't imagine. That is why we are opposed to the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Salzl:... VAT adjustment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The EU's agricultural ministers have agreed on the reform of the European agricultural policy after long and tough negotiations. [[Abg. Aumayr: Congratulations!]] Numerous emotion-loading demonstrations in Brussels and in many EU countries have accompanied these negotiations. A large delegation from the Austrian Farmers' Federation – including my person – took part in the big demonstration on 22nd October. In February, it took part in Brussels. [[Abg. Aumayr: And demonstrated against himself!]] This is because the proposed measures were simply not acceptable to the Commission, for example, the level of price reductions and the temporary degression in compensation payments, to name just a few. It is about the future of our farmers and about the development of rural areas. [[Abg. Aumayr: And now you are satisfied with the result?]] Finally, it has succeeded in preventing much that would have caused the Austrian farmers massive problems. In return, new perspectives could be opened in some areas. For example, it could be achieved that rural development will be the second pillar of EU agricultural policy in the future. This gives the Austrian farmers in particular numerous opportunities, including in the dairy sector. This is a particularly important point. [[Abg. Aumayr: My God! Again, the fine food shop!]] The instrument for controlling quantities is the milk quota which has been challenged by many EU countries. Until now, it has been necessary to maintain the milk quota. It is so urgent for Austria because milk production is an important sector of production. However, without quota arrangements, prices would fall in the cellar. Moreover, the milk market regime will not become effective until 2003, not as originally foreseen, in 2000. Furthermore, a 1.5 percent increase in quotas will be foreseen for all Member States from 2003 onwards. For Austria, this means a quota increase of 41 000 tonnes. In addition, Austria receives with 1. On 1 April 1999 the D-Quote was relocated to the A-Quote of 150 000 tonnes. We have put on this problem more often, and we have tried to find this solution. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have triggered it, not dressed!]] Now reality becomes. This additional quota is distributed to producers. [[Abg. Aumayr: The farmers are dimming!]] In the end, it is also compensating. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, in order to obtain the milk quota as a volume control instrument, an intervention spread of 15 percent had to be purchased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] It must be noted that the Liberals in Europe have called for an even greater reduction. We could stop that. [[Abg. Aumayr: It could have been much "annoyer", of course!]] It's exactly the same! The compensation for the price reductions is based on the milk quota. The negotiations achieved that the original calculation model – the so-called virtual cow – has not been introduced. [[Abg. Aumayr: colleague friend! Every Innviertler Bauer gets...!]] The basis is rather the actual single farm milk quota, which ultimately makes it easier to match Austrian conditions. The compensation is 35 sizes per kilogram of milk. Unfortunately, the reform also entails a 20 percent reduction in prices in the cattle sector. [[Abg. Aumayr: But you do agree!]] Austria has been prevented from fully implementing the 30 % reduction proposed by the Commission. [[Abg. Aumayr: Suggested by Fischler!]] It was also decisive – and this was always demanded by the Austrian side – that there be a premium for female breeding cattle. You, too, have mentioned this time and again. It is also noted that a general slaughter premium of 1 100 s is available for bulls, oxen, cows and calves, as an additional compensation measure. The new expansion premium for dairy cows has been introduced at the explicit request of Austria a further mountain region scheme. Now we need internal Austrian answers to the agenda. In the direction of colleagues from the liberals, I would like to say the following: Your criticism is unqualified and partly... I do not want to continue to judge this. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Is better anyway!]] They came from all over the negotiations and do not come up with any concrete proposals to be implemented in reality. Where are your proposals? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Who puts the Commissioner?]] Where are your real proposals for how all this should have come differently? We – the Farmers' Federation and the ÖVP with Federal Minister Molterer – have negotiated tough and hard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: With yourself!]] In the end, this result could be achieved. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Who is stronger: i or i?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We've achieved a lot of things in Austria, and you're probably hurting. We have called for VAT adjustment, and we have implemented an adjustment of 10 to 12 per cent. This, of course, entails an increase in the price of milk products. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You've always promised something!]] We have called for family tax reform, and we have implemented it. We have called for the farmer's pension, the health certificate for farmers and the two per cent tax on fuel blending. [[Abg. Aumayr: Increase social security contributions!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] We've done this, or we'll implement it. All these points have been raised by us over and over again, and we will successfully implement them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] In addition, there will be a base amount for those farms which are less equipped with areas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The carnage money for all must also come because it is just. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The babysitting check must be introduced!]] The Austrian environmental programme 2000 will also come, which is very important for farmers. It is now in Brussels and has to be notified there. We have achieved that the 40 billion package will be implemented for farmers by 2002 and will ultimately ensure a stabilisation of compensation payments for our farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's why you are so successful in the elections!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Those who expect the farmers to produce food at competitive European prices must ensure that our farmers also have EU prices in farm resources. This is very important for our production. The production of internal market conditions for veterinary doctors, the cost of veterinary medicinal products, the authorisation of agricultural machinery and, in particular, plant protection products is particularly urgent. Because there we are still disadvantaged. In this context, I should like to call for Bad Aussee's decisions and to draw attention to the fact that these decisions will be implemented at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12238	Mrs Anna Huber is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12259	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker challenged me a little. He has just explained – like many others – that karenz money for everyone would be fair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I'll give him the right. It would be just as fair and as high a subsidy for all those in the agricultural sector. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's only one socialist in applause!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: After all!]] – That doesn't matter at all. That's why the statement is no less worth it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12330	So, I hope Mrs Huber is finally on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12357	I would now like to return to Agenda 2000 and its impact. For we are discussing the impact of this agricultural compromise on agriculture, on the structure of agriculture, on competitiveness, on income – and that is not essential – of people working in this area, so that the impact on the future of rural areas, on tourism and so on, and so on, as well as – I believe, that is also a very important point – the impact on consumers. I must say here and critically note that the continued promotion practice does not correspond to the ideas of consumers. [[Abg. Zweytick: Why not?]] To promote only after the area and after the number of animals, miners, smaller and smallest farmers will find their way to fall behind. It is precisely that part of agriculture – which is at least 90 percent of Austrian farmers – which is highly organic and sustainable, and which is produced as most of the Austrian consumers imagine. These are companies that have to work under very difficult conditions, which not least maintain and maintain the Austrian cultural landscape in all its beauty, thus contributing, for example, to the success of tourism. What do consumers want, what do they expect from Agenda 2000 when it comes to creating this context? – I think that on the one hand is a healthy agriculture, but these are also low prices as well as good and naturally produced foods, which you know where and, above all, how they are produced. That the loss of revenue for agriculture and the people working hard there must be compensated for if it is on the other side. The price of intervention is clear and obvious. It is handled in Austria as well. I note, however, that the intermediate trade, or anyone else, is strongly dissociating, because the price reductions that will be paid to producers, farmers, so that the low prices are absolutely not passed on to consumers. If you look at how the pig price has developed and how the meat price in the shops looks, a very clear example shows that there is obviously a large gap between them. If 6 percent of the budget is spent on environmental protection, I think that is very little for Austrian consumers. As you have indicated, Mr Minister, that there are still additional requests for subsidies from agriculture within Austria, I would like to say that the acceptance of such subsidies also depends to a great extent on the fact that the relationship between consumers and consumers is seen and felt by them. I bring a quote from the "Mitagsjournal" of the 8th century. February. At the time, Commissioner Fischler said on Agenda 2000, for example, the compensation allowance for mining workers: The scope that the new concept of mining promotion opens up would allow – if you want – more than doubling mining promotion in Austria. I think that is an essential point, and I regret that this opportunity has been rejected. It's a very important point for me, and that's just... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is planned with the base amount from next year, but requires more budget resources!]] It requires more budget resources. I wonder why it has not been possible to implement internally even before the Agenda 2000 decision, that the amount of funding on the base should also be covered above and that it is not the fault of not promoting small farmers and farmers to the necessary extent, just because additional funds would otherwise be needed. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The compensation allowance is covered with 120 hectares! The degression starts with the compensation allowance already at 40 hectares!]] However, I do not think it has been necessary to enforce social justice to the extent necessary – we can still sit down and discuss it. I regret that this important approach - and it is the only correct approach, Mr Schwarzenberger - has not been implemented. Because we all – the minister has said that too – want healthy farms in a healthy and strong agricultural area.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12422	Mr Wenitsch came to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger, it has been noted in your speech today that due to the results of the elections in the last decades, the ÖVP has been very trained in trying to sell a minus as a success. But I am convinced that the farmers will certainly not take this away from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In my district, the ÖVP has increased 2% in the country election and the FPÖ has lost half a percent!]] Mr President, I should like to thank They suddenly realize here – almost as in Disney’s wonderland – that the consumer arrives at the farmer only 17 s a day. Mr President, I would like to ask you: Who's responsible? Who has been the Minister of Agriculture for more than 13 years? Who, please, is putting the Commissioner in the EU? – These are you yourself, the Farmers’ Federation, the ÖVP Group, and nobody else! There's your address, where you need to demonstrate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But here in the House want to sell the public more or less for stupid – that is really ridiculous what you have listed here today! The next thing I would like to say to you is that you are speaking today about the elections on 3 March. In October, a class struggle was launched. They want to charge ÖBB staff against farmers here. Please, we are glad that these times are over, Mr President. I don't want to hear about it anymore. We do not need to be afraid of that, but I know that was the ÖVP way. I know that from my father's stories. It's always been called by the Farmers' Federation: Friends, be glad to give you a little bit! For otherwise come the evil reds, light up the houses, take away the fields, and so on and so on! – We do not need to fear any more today, Mr. Cot. You will no longer be able to intimidate the farmers, because the farmers will be informed by us, Mr Schwarzenberger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The next thing you put here more or less in the room: The success of the Minister was apparently great, and now we have to ensure that the national funds are made available. It seems that only a strong EDP can more or less guarantee that the funds for the 1998 OPUL will be paid out in the future. I would just like to say one thing to you, Mr Commissioner: They were personally the one who already betrayed the peasantry four years ago! The promised funds for Public Health 1995 were cut at your request, but not at a request of social democrats, of the liberals, of the Greens or of the Liberals. No, at the request of the President of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, Georg Schwarzenberger, the farmers have been taken away the promised funds! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Despite all your demands and despite your attempt to make this agenda tasty to farmers, I say to you: You have completely failed in the Agenda 2000 negotiations! Your negotiation, Minister, provides the Austrian farmers with an annual income loss of around 2 billion schilling! These are not calculations I've invented, but you know that very well yourself. They know the press releases, some even come from ÖVP politicians, from farmers' politicians. In addition, Mr Minister, you have also disadvantaged taxpayers in Austria. Because because of our net payment position – this will worsen even if farmers get less money – the following will occur: The national margin for agricultural funds will, of course, be further reduced. But this could be a disaster for the farmers, and it will be as it turns out when I look at the numbers. Mrs Huber, you have spoken about social justice. 3 million farmers will have to turn away from the courts in the next few years! It's not social justice. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We will keep this to you in three years!]] This is a failure of the ÖVP Farmers' Federation in Austria and, of course, a failure of the ÖVP Farmers' Federal Commissioner Fischler! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The EU, with its help, focuses on total competition. Do we want to get there? As an example, take the quota of sugar beet. In the case of sugar beet, it is still possible for farmers today to obtain their income via product sales. I am glad that this is a point in which the farmer – thank God – does not depend on the state and public funds. It's still going on. However, they are going here and talking about a quantity control which is to be included in Agenda 2000. Minister! They punish themselves more or less if you say that you are making a decision by which you increase the EU-wide milk quota by 1.5 percent – and in some countries even significantly higher; in Italy, Ireland and Greece or wherever there is a significantly stronger increase – and if you say: We currently have a milk surplus of 11 million tonnes across the EU. This cannot be true if you still increase the quota in excess of 11 million tonnes and thus risk more or less that the surplus will actually be much higher in the coming years and we will still have to export these dairy products more than before! [[Abg. Aumayr: And the prices are falling!]] Mr Minister, the WTO negotiations are also at hand. What is this position if one is in fact forced to export its surplus and therefore goes into the negotiations with this pressure? – They will fall on the belly of the WTO negotiations as will all the other negotiations you have held in the framework of Agenda 2000 for Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I say to you from this point of view: You should put an end to this wrong game and to this agricultural policy. They should be concerned that farmers should be kept on their farms under all circumstances, in view of the labour market situation alone. Moreover, more or less because of your failed negotiations, you should finally have the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12541	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP in particular! I would never blame you for using or bending the Rules of Procedure. Such words are, I think, already here or there today. It is legitimate that you make a urgent request. It is quite right, as you have said, that this is an up-to-date situation. So why should we not discuss this in Parliament? But one thing surprises me anyway: I would have expected a slightly higher level of your request. When I look at the text, I see that it reads like the extract from the index. If you are serious about the future of farmers and rural development, you should, I would have expected, give some sort of evidence of how the situation has developed over the past decade in the preliminary stages or in the text of your request. How has the situation developed since we were in the EU? Have your full-bodied promises of accession to the EU been met or not? Have you really been able to deposit your proposals in Brussels, and have they been observed accordingly? But nothing similar can be found, not even a finding over the past few years, since we have been in the EU, let alone a finding on rural and rural development at all. Instead of that, there is something like an extract from the index, about what has been decided, and what is now a matter of negotiation. The question is then raised as a clou: What's the result "in detail"? – That’s what you’ve already presented! That exposes your inquiry. Obviously, you are not concerned with the result. It is obviously not a question of discussing this at all, but of using the favor of the hour. This too is legitimate, I do not want to agree with you. This is a very low level, Mr Schwarzböck! I just notice... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Interested parties must once succeed in welcoming a negotiated outcome, which is fully at the expense of that group of people they represent, in press releases, with even more euphoria and enthusiasm than the Minister. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is usually true that interest representatives are more critical, perhaps even a little more critical than the minister who had to negotiate this. But I'm surprised that you're just too euphoric to welcome this. Mr Schwarzböck, you did on 11 February. March said: It has all been fulfilled, for which the Austrian farmers have been fighting for years. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You must have a damp feeling! ...! That's a premise!]] That's a joke! You know that as well as we do. You even know much better than we know that this is a joke, what you're doing on the 11th. ==References== There's even the minister you're actually here... – your press release from 11. March. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: How did you get the quote? That's a clear statement! That's not true! What are you quoting here?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What are you quoting? Tell us!]] Her own minister has considered the result even more distanced. He himself said the following – to be read in the newspaper – on this subject: It is a difficult situation for farmers. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We were not euphoric! The press release was not euphoric!]] – This too is a weary statement on the outcome of Agenda 2000, but your statement as a representative of farmers is really all about it. Your two attitudes, your two opinions that you have expressed in public, beat everything. And similar has happened today's debate. I can also give you two examples. There was a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture before the agenda was concluded. At the time, Minister Molterer mentioned two points which were particularly important to him in these discussions in order to conclude them. This was the business-related modulation and rural development. Look at what's become of it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] The first is no longer there, the second is now playing a "key role" according to your statement. You mention measures that have always existed, but in the past they were rather located in the area of the Structural Funds. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then you don't know yourself in the EU!]] That would not bother me if you now combine measures that have already been taken under the word "rural development". In this, I agree with you that we should place a heavy emphasis on rural development. No question! That is what we have said in the main committee. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... only in 5b areas!]] In this we support you, we should do much more! But look at the following: 10 to 15 percent of the agricultural budget is your second pillar, your key role, as you called it. 10 to 15 percent! Do you not find this pathetic in view of the fact that the Minister has said beforehand that these are his two concerns which he absolutely wants to carry on? These are two issues that are important to us Austrians, he said. I just ask myself one, Mr Schwarzböck, Mr Schwarzenberger: Where is the Austrian influence in this result? Where is this influence that you have spoken about? Do you know where I see it? – I already see him in two areas, but you didn’t mean them and didn’t quote them. This is exactly where the ceilings of the subsidies have been or the removal of the Silomais premium. You have claimed your influence, but in a negative sense, in the sense that he is harming exactly those farmers you would have to represent in Austria. And these are not the big farmers, they are not the agricultural industries, as you know, but they are rather the middle and small-structured farms that we have in Austria. The results we have on the table today and which are now entering the final negotiations in Berlin – and you know that – are disastrous for the Austrian farmers and for the structure we have in Austria. I wonder, and I ask you: What did you represent? And what do you represent when you stand here at the speaker's desk and make a urgent request? – Really not the Austrian farmers! That's the sum I can draw. [[Abg. Zweytick: Ask Joschka Fischer! ...!]] One point you like to mention and also the Minister likes to mention is ecologisation. Environmental measures, environmental support, were largely shifted into the discretion of the Member States. What does that mean? Let's take a look at this! They promised that Austria would become, as it were, a delicacy store in the EU, we would produce particularly fine and especially ecological products. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We do that too! We have a variety of products!]] What does it mean if the agenda is now decided? – This means a huge price pressure, which means that environmental conditions are lowered in a competitive situation, and this means, in particular, that you do not have minimum standards across Europe. They do not actually have verifiable minimum standards. This is particularly worrying in connection with the enlargement of the East, as this issue has already fallen. As regards the agricultural package in the course of the enlargement of the East, it would have been very important and necessary in this one point – there would have been many – to come to really verifiable minimum standards. Otherwise, you can write your statements about ecologisation and environmental promotion, I don't know where to go. But please do not make them known to the electorate, because it is simply not true what you are saying and saying! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only way you have taken to and for yourself is and remains what Minister Molterer said at the meeting of the main committee, but you have not been able to go through. The only right way is to introduce business-related modulation, the social factor, and strengthen rural development – but not only with 10 to 15 percent of the budget, but with a very clear ecologicalisation with respect to the minimum standards. Then we can talk about an agricultural budget. But what you have presented here, Mr Minister, what you welcome as the representatives of the farmers is pitiful!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12715	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12737	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one follows this debate, one has the impression that it is argued by two completely different starting positions or perceptions. On the one hand, there is the assessment that the negotiations on Agenda 2000 have been well concluded. The expected or feared disaster scenario for the Austrian farmers has not occurred. Minister Molterer as the second hero of Brussels somehow prevented the worst for the Austrian farmers. On the other hand, however, there are perceptions of the following contents: Everything's wrong! In reality, the most massive impact on Austrian agriculture and on Austrian farmers, namely forced farmers' deaths, massive income losses and so on. As these two assessments differ so far, one has the impression that it is not discussed and argued on the basis of the same result, but rather it is argued on the basis of a political wish: One would be right to sell a negotiation success, the other would be right to say that the Minister has actually betrayed the farmers. And in any case, there is ultimately a political objective behind it and not an assessment of what is actually present. In fact, the Agenda 2000 in the agricultural sector can be assessed according to a variety of criteria. Criteria number one: If one asks what this means for the Austrian farmers, one must also ask whether the reform is as serious as it was presented. Several speakers have said that the reform is not serious, some have even meant that it is not at all a reform. . So I would say that we can see reforms in different areas, but in large areas, Agenda 2000 is the continuation of what has already been in place in EU agricultural policy. If the whole thing is assessed from the point of view of what it costs, it can be seen that the compromise concluded by the Agriculture Ministers costs 7 billion euros more than the objective of real expenditure stabilisation and also more than the original Commission proposal. Now I have the question: What do these 7 billion euros mean? Do they mean that the Austrian farmers are now getting out better than they have been before? - I didn't hear any argument for that. Does this mean that taxpayers would save money? - No one's gonna like to say that. But who gets this extra €7 billion, which is above the objective of real expenditure stabilisation? – If the structure of agricultural policy has not been changed, this means that these additional €7 billion will obviously give the lion the share of large-scale agricultural production in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black goats.]] Please? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And this is what the SPD requires... in Europe!]] It must also be said why this was so negotiated. Clearly, in Germany – and not only there – there is an agricultural structure in the new federal states with the huge LPGs that naturally try to get the maximum for their businesses in representation of German interests. But you have to say clearly: This is not our reading, because our Austrian reading is another because of the structure of agriculture. But, Mr Schwarzböck: We must note that this costs 7 billion euros more, but obviously it will no longer bring us or the smaller farmers. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Of course!]] That is to say, the money is, in our view, going into the wrong channels. You have to ask yourself the question: What opportunities does the Berlin Summit now have to deal with this problem? – There are essentially two possibilities. It is said that these 7 billion euros are accepted in additional expenditure. Then there are two options: Either we simply increase the gross contribution, that is, the individual Member States will pay more to finance this additional €7 billion – that is, more taxpayers' money in Brussels – or, if we accept this amount of €7 billion in such a way that we can save in other European Union expenditure pots, such as the regional funds, research, science, other areas. And you have to ask yourself the question: Is that what you want? But you can also say: Well, this amount of EUR 7 billion has now been set by the Agriculture Ministers, but we do not want to do so. – Then there are several ways to deal with it. The French call for the package to be cut off. That would, I think, be relatively difficult to manage within two days. Another proposal is to move towards degression, which means that these measures will expire from a certain point of view and will not affect these 7 billion. The question, of course, arises: What effect would such a scheme have on Austrian agriculture in the first place? What I want to illustrate is that what comes out – and this is also a debate that we have to hold – is the following: There are countries that benefit disproportionately from the European Union's agricultural budget, including France, including Denmark. What is difficult for us Austrians to bear is that we should confess that there is solidarity in the European Union, namely that the richer countries offer poorer support. But if we have this principle, it is difficult for us to "pack" and hardly to accept that countries that are as rich as France, or countries that are even richer than Austria, namely Denmark, will continue to be net beneficiaries of the European Union by this dosage. [[Abg. Aumayr: But you decided!]] I believe that this is the basic crux behind this Agenda 2000 that financial structures, which are hard to accept democratically in Europe, are perpetuated by this agenda. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have decided!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I always believed you were Foreign Minister! Now you're going to be a Minister of Agriculture!]] – This has not only to do with agriculture. Next point: Why has the agenda been made at all? [[Abg. Aumayr: (in allusion to the English pronunciation of the speaker in the word "Agenda") Why do you always say "Echenda"?]] There have finally been two reasons. One reason was that the European Union had to be prepared for enlargement. – To this end, I note that the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" reads today: The real objective of the reform package, the preparation of the Community for the enlargement of the East, is only a side-by-side role in the debate on budget aristmetics and net balances. - Quote. That is, in reality, with the form of the discussion on the agenda, the great historical project Easter enlargement has been postponed at least once for a longer period of time, because it will be relatively difficult to reach with these requirements. Second objective: We wanted to be prepared for the WTO negotiations in order to improve the overall debate on the world economy. I have considerable doubts that what has been negotiated by the Ministers for Agriculture can exist at the next round of the WTO. I would also like to say that we should not underestimate the extent to which the conflicts in trade and industrial conflicts between the US and Europe are intensifying. I would just like to point out that, in the question of the ban on imports of American hormone beef – a comparative bagatelle – the Americans are answering with retortion measures and fines, which ultimately account for around 900 million schillings for the Austrian export industry alone. Now I don't want to paint what's on the agenda... – No! [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Do we want hormone meat?]] I take this as an example of what we can expect at the next round of the WTO on the basis of these requirements if the retortion measures are already so sharp in such a comparative bagatelle. To sum up, therefore: I fully understand these legitimate interests, but I already wonder whether it would not have been more intelligent if the WTO agenda were to be made possible. I would like to give you an example: If more money had been invested in promoting rural areas through regional support programmes, this kind of support, which, by the way, has a very great impact on farmers, would be much more resistant to a conflict within the WTO than the current arrangements. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Fighting by the Social Democrats!]] Last sentence, Mr President: If, in my opinion, the Austrian Minister for Agriculture, who took a proper attitude in the final phase of the negotiations, as far as the question of social criteria is concerned, had decided a little earlier to follow this path, it might have been possible to gain more alliance partners for this concept in the European Union than it is now.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12907	Mr Koller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e12929	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Agenda 2000, which was created under the leadership of EU Commissioner Fischler, is an agricultural destruction concept. Every third job at the farm will disappear. The aim of the free agricultural policy is, however, to preserve the farm environment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Before joining the EU, you also said this: in three years there will no longer be any miners!]] This is the only way to ensure a comprehensive agriculture. The EU's eastern and southern enlargement brings farmers further massive price collapses, as well as a redistribution of rural structural resources into urban agglomerations. Ladies and gentlemen! We call for Minister Molterer and the government to veto this enlargement for so long as the farm workplace is not sufficiently secure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! ==References== In March 1998, you said to the Council of Agriculture Ministers: The price cuts are far above the target. I must point out that my country, the farmers in the course of EU accession, had to take price reductions between 20 and 50 percent. We have now overcome this difficult phase. I can assure you that it will put me in a politically extremely difficult situation if we are to have a fresh price reduction for farmers. This is an extremely difficult situation, which is a major burden for my country's political stability. I must draw your attention to the fact that we cannot, therefore, agree with the proposed radical price reduction concept in this form. - Quote. Minister! That speech was hot air. We know the result. Now, Mr. Minister, you're trying to explain the outcome. Other EU countries benefit from the new milk quotas. Austria receives a fine of over 500 million schilling because of a tradition of the milk quota. Italy, for example, has always covered the quota. Italy has not paid "supercharge" as this penalty payment is called. And the next year, Italy with 600 000 tonnes, Spain with 550 000 tonnes, Ireland with 150 000 tonnes and Greece with 70 000 tonnes of quotas will be granted. Austria was only granted a minimum increase of 41 200 tonnes from 2003 onwards. This is your outcome, Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals: This is a scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This so-called reform of the common agricultural policy will significantly aggravate the conditions, but especially the income situation in domestic agriculture. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The European Commission, with its agricultural programmes, is promoting the farming of silkworms, the cultivation of tobacco for which it prohibits advertising, and the export of purebred breeding rabbits to the French overseas area with at least 120 D-mark per animal. These "Schmankerln" can be found in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung). And there's nothing to add to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13017	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Koller has been tabled in accordance with business rules and has been sufficiently supported, submitted and included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Salzl. You have 6 minutes left for your debate contribution. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13041	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have followed today's debate could clearly see that this urgent question by the EIA is a further step towards stealing from the responsibility for the maladministration of farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Quite the opposite!]] This urgent, Mrs Fekter, is just as an alibi action as your farmers' alliances drove to Brussels for demonstration to the farmer-bander Fischler. You could have been much easier. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You just want to polemize!]] At the top were Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger and Co. Trust me, President Schwarzböck: If you are the top farmer's representative of income losses of up to 20 percent here as "success", it is clear to me why our farmers in Austria are in receipt of income just before those in need. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is a sign of loss of reality and refusal of reality to produce here and to pretend within a fairy tale hour that this Agenda 2000 would be a positive thing for our farmers. They simply ignore a Commission study which states that Agenda 2000 will have a serious impact on employment by 2006. This study also states that only modest income growth will result in a 3% increase in income if 2.5 to 3 million farmers stop and their land will make others available. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Such "future perspectives" have become possible through an ÖVP government participation. Farmers' representatives who negate this threatening situation, who are praising these massive losses of income for our farmers as a success of negotiations, are the helpers of a farm destruction policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Allow me to make a few comments on another study, which is also available because so much has been said about strengthening rural areas. This is a study on rural areas, on rural poverty. In recent years – even without Agenda 2000! – poverty in rural areas has increased enormously, with the help of the ÖVP, with the help of this Federal Government. This study states that almost half of the people at risk of poverty live in rural communities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. The risk rate for poverty reached 29 percent in rural communities. The highest risk rate in Burgenland is 29 percent, Styria 25 percent and Lower Austria 23 percent. It also says that in Austria, in Austria, 30.6 percent of the agricultural households are at risk of poverty. [[Abg. Aumayr: A witness of poverty for your policy!]] This is probably not a reputation for this federal government and for the farmers' representatives sitting here in the hall. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This study, Mr Schwarzenberger, also clearly shows that the main victims of poverty are women. Poverty, especially among women, has become a social problem in these regions. Missing future prospects lead to resignation and frustration. As a result, up to 10 000 farmers stop moving out of agriculture each year. These are the consequences of your farming policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, our farmers have been given a lot of hope and prospects for the future. Their promises of comprehensive security of living for Austrian agriculture were nothing but hot air, as has already been said today. Your slogan, your motto, was apparently: promised – broken. - You've kept it, but you haven't done anything for the farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals will not tire of showing the discrepancy between your Sunday speeches and your actual actions. We will not get tired of pointing out to the farmers. We liberals confess to an existence-assuring, comprehensive agriculture in Austria with future prospects for our farmers. Finally, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution which Mrs Aumayr has already referred to as a side-by-side farmer. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can show here that the farmers are at your heart that if you agree with this request, you will be at the heart of the cooperative farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13158	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported, has been presented and is included in the negotiations. Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. You have a speaking time of 7 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13182	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one follows this discussion and, for example, takes the speech of Mr Gusenbauer seriously, one could think he was in the opposition. Mr Gusenbauer! In all that you have said and rightly criticized, you and the SPÖ are very much involved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You're with the ÖVP in a government coalition! Don't forget that! Your self-criticism – I finally understood this – was a hundred percent right, and I hope you learn something from it. [[New condolences with the greens.]] [[Call to the liberals: I don't believe that!]] Minister Molterer! You have said at the end of your debate that you want small farmers to be preserved and family farms to stay. Minister! But then from the Mühlviertel you only threw your eyes to Wolfern and perhaps still to the Welser Heide. But, for example, you have not let your look into the Most Quarter move, because you know that there have been no longer any such businesses there. And the former farmers, the small farmers there, actually feel like "hobbies gardeners", but no longer as farmers, because you are no longer called farmers, but as "land-keepers". We in the Most Quarter are already discussing the fact that, the more white sausages one leaves on the field, the more likely it is to be to get funds from the EU. – This is certainly not a satisfactory solution for farmers! For example, only those farmers in the Mostviertel have a realistic chance to survive if they are already in retirement. They know quite well that in the whole of the Most District there are hardly any house-heritage that no one is left on the farm anymore, and not because he can no longer afford the existential. [[Abg. Steibl: Your colleague Haidlmayr, do you not exaggerate?]] The farmhouses are lost wherever they pass through, you will see: There are half the ruins because no one is there who can actually afford to manage the farm. The few farms that remain are large farms that have leased the land, so to speak, for a zero rate, which is now being exploited again. – This is how the situation in rural areas looks! That is what you are talking about, Minister Molterer, concerns the situation of Wolfern and the situation of the Welser Heath, but that is never the "small" farmers who really lived on their own products. First you made the farmers from the warehouse, then from the machine ring and then from the raiffeisen cassa. And now you also want to explain that they can survive with Agenda 2000! But they have no more chance of survival, they have already discharged, so to speak, and abandoned their court. The great ones have struck, but these are now in bed again in the evening and, if they have pigs or bulls for sale, they have the fear sweat on the forehead, because they never know in advance how high the pig or bull price is and whether they may not have bought their breeding animal more expensive than they may eventually sell it. This is the situation of the Austrian farmers! Don't worry about it. Nor will Agenda 2000 improve the situation of farmers; the farmers do not believe this for a long time now! What did you not promise you when we joined the EU? At that time you pretended to be the farmers of the profession serving the "Feinkosladen Österreich", but you did not say who should pay all this! And now you want to explain to the farmers – at least those who may still have a little hope – that they can survive with Agenda 2000. You can't! There will be a few, ever-growing large-scale industrial and agricultural enterprises that may exist – but farmers can no longer exist, and no longer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13243	It is now Mr Magistrate. Steindl. Time left: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13265	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have now spent about two and a half hours on Agenda 2000, a few hours earlier on the Social Report 1997. Between these two areas you can draw a lot of parallels, but also show differences. There are, and this must be said clearly, the following serious differences between farmers and agriculture: There is no 40-hour week for farmers, there is no free weekend for farmers, and there is no constant monthly wage found in the Sackerl. The farmers do more than they should, and that should be recognized accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Because the farmers are entrepreneurs!]] It is agriculture that supports rural areas, maintains our landscape accordingly and preserves it from devastation. The farmers also contribute to Community care, and this, Mrs Aumayr, must also be said clearly, because you think it is a 'fear' that we are here today dealing with the concerns of the peasantry. [[Abg. Aumayr: You are dealing with yourself!]] We will do this at any time by the EIA, because our farmers are just so important to us that we can talk about their problems at any time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – That is why this urgent request is justified. In the direction of SPÖ, Mr Gusenbauer, I say: You have packed the rhetorically very skillfully, but you do not come from agriculture and therefore do not know the problems of agriculture. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: How do you take this knowledge from?]] On the other hand, I come from agriculture, Mr Colleague, and I know about day-to-day problems. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I have a very agricultural constituency!]] A single sentence of your speech says everything, that the money flowed into the "false channels"! Who are you talking about? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The big businesses!]] Do you mean the "consumer", the former national lights with the VOEST, the east promotion of the city of Vienna, or who else? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The big businesses!]] – I can only comment: As the bad guy thinks, so is he! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot about the situation of farmers. There is no doubt that our Minister for Agriculture Willi Molterer, after a month of negotiation, succeeded in finally creating a certain clarity about the future environment in agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Fraglos could be pulled a few fangs and some hardness avoided. Of course, as the Minister has already said in his reply, the effort of all and an Austrian answer is needed. We must set the appropriate conditions at national level, but we must not explore that there has been some success in this round of agriculture ministers. For example, Mr Molterer is due to the fact that there will be no premium degression, and that must also be said clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was his tactical move: If he had not brought in from the Austrian situation the business size-related degression model, then we could not have prevented the premium degression. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Much has already been said about milk, crops and beef. I come from a wine-growing area; the wine-growing has not yet been mentioned. In the wine-growing sector, we were able to survive, and we wine-growers, Mr Minister, are grateful to you for the success of saving a lot on the Austrian side. I am thinking, for example, of the oenological procedures that can now be maintained, which is very important for us and our wine market. I am also thinking of the decommissioning, a model which would have ended in 2003. Many farmers in my hometown did not know what to do about it. Now there is the possibility that one can extend for another five years, after which these areas will come to a reserve fund, and one can think exactly what to do with it. Another success: Burgenland will again become a Objective 1 area, which is very important for the further economic development of our country. This will also give us higher funding, which we need, because we have a very large recovery process to complete. Therefore, the restructuring measures in the field of agriculture, which are supported by 50 percent – in the Burgenland as a Objective 1 area even to 75 percent – are very important. We need opportunities to move the vineyards from bad locations on slopes to better locations. That is your merit, and that must also be said! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am proud to say that our agricultural land alone in Burgenland is being supported by 80 per cent through ÖPUL programmes. This must also be stressed here. In the direction of the Greens it must be said that we have put in place measures to ecologize in all these areas, including the promotions. I therefore believe that Mr Molterer has tactically negotiated in these agricultural rounds and has been able to defend some of them in our favour. This agenda is a reform that brings financial security to future conditions. Therefore, they can be accepted with this package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13416	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the places now, because we are going to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled. Firstly, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the loss of income for farmers by Agenda 2000 versus generous pensions for Commissioners. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the approval of agricultural diesel. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Call the Freeman – towards ÖVP –:This is your own request!]] Now we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the elimination of the AMA's injustices against Austria's farmers. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gredler and Mr Comrades on Agenda 2000. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on the renationalisation of agricultural income policy. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on benefits under the AlVG for auxiliary farmers. [[Call to the liberals: Who has a heart for the auxiliary farmers?]] Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13512	The next step is to hold a brief debate on the request of the honourable Member. Mr Peter, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, reporting on the request for an early vote 421/A by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades concerning the renewal of the holiday law until the 19th century. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and The vote on this request will be taken after the end of the debate. You know the time limit: the first signatory has 10 minutes as an applicant, all other Members 5 minutes. Members of the Government are not present, they should also be limited to about 10 minutes. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13542	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can introduce you to a good old acquaintance – a good old acquaintance we met on 20 June. It was introduced in March 1997 in the House of Commons. This is about holiday quotas. Mr. Feurstein! In fact, two years ago, the Austrian People's Party encouraged me to re-submit this request and see whether it was successful to place at least in the form of a request in the Committee and to achieve a real treatment of this request by setting a time limit. ==References== On March 1, 1999, the Social Committee was involved in this request, but unfortunately it was postponed. Why is that? – In Austria, we are rightly talking about employment policy, we are rightly talking about creating more opportunities to employ people. We have also recognized that labour costs clearly play a major role in this. In other words, it would be impossible to explain that we are debating the level of additional labour costs in order to achieve more favourable labour costs without having to reduce gross wages. Vacation is now once an unpaid downtime. However, I should like to say straight away that I do not share the view of the President of the Chamber of Commerce, who meant in February 1998, that for young people, four weeks' holidays should be enough. I do not share this view, Mrs Reitsamer. I think that our right to vacation, which lies in the upper middle field – but still in the middle field – in the European comparison, is absolutely adapted, but does not at all think that the holiday is divided so that someone who works for six months in a farm is entitled to – if you count on Saturday – 15 days of vacation, as soon as he only works a single day longer – that is, six months and one day – from this one working day at a time become claims on three weekly salaries. You can calculate this exactly! That is why, of course, it is said in the undertakings: six months and no more! This reduces the duration of employment and prolongs unemployment. That can't be so! Or do you really think Mrs Reitsamer can afford to pay three weekly salaries for the first working day after six months? Let me make another point. In my opinion, the sum of the labour costs that a company can bear as a whole depends on four factors. The first factor is demand, so customers. How much demand can the company focus on itself? The second question is: How productive can the company be? How productive is it together with its employees? The third factor is: What quality can it offer on the market? – And this quality, in turn, will determine the price. So there are four factors – external and internal – in a company that clearly limit the total labour costs that a company can bear while still operating economically. Ladies and gentlemen! If, for example, you give individual employees additional pay-as-you-go rates beyond false holiday rates, you will put pressure on those employees who stay in the company and on their gross wages. In all modesty: The Dukatenschißerl hasn't invented anyone yet. So, I mean, it can make sense to aliquotate the whole holiday. We are only going to take the first step in our request, because we wanted to make it easy for you here in the House to deal at least once with this request and to agree to it in the committee, by stating that it is only about holidays in the first year at first. I am convinced, of course, that the overall holiday is too aliquota. But that request that I may present to you today, this good old friend of 20 years old. March 1997, who has been sleeping in the drawers of the great coalition for two years, really refers only to the first year in which the employee is employed. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a small, but it's a solution. I therefore call on you to agree to at least a deadline – more so today. We have a deadline for the Committee's report to the House until 19. ==References== The Social Committee met on 12 February. May. So there is really nothing against the fact that you have a good old friend, a right request, which the representatives of the People's Party in particular have always supported, but which, in the end, the representatives of the Socialist Party have to support, in the sense of their employment policy, which has been said here, to bring about further treatment, so that it is hopefully decided. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13607	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13629	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, since you spoke directly to me with your "old acquaintance": I still have an "older acquaintance", a much older acquaintance. [[Abg. May. Peter: You're younger than I am!]] Mr Peter, this one is even older than I am – and that means something! ................................................................................................................. ==References== Listen, you'll already notice what I want to do! §17 – I quote – reads: "If the service relationship has lasted continuously for six months, the employee shall be granted an continuous holiday in the duration of at least two weeks each year." - Quote. The holiday claim has only improved from its length! Let's continue in the series of "old acquaintances" I've dug out! There is a comment by Dr. Pigler entitled "Out of Current Labour Law", from April 1952. In this is under the heading "First-time holiday claim" – I quote: "The first right to vacation arises after a continuous service period of 6 months. In the following service years, on the other hand, the holiday entitlement arises immediately at the beginning of the respective service year." - Quote. All right! But in view of what was going on in 1921 in this world – we have learned all the history – what was going on in 1952, I dare to say that it was much worse for everyone at the time, and for employers as well as for workers. At that time, however, it was not disputed. Now we have a few problems, but all of us are still very good. And what is being done, what is the tried-and-tested mesh? – It is intended to shorten the number of employees once again, with the excuse that jobs will be secured, and and and so on. [[Abg. May. Peter: Job opportunities!]] Mr Peter, that's not how it is going! I shall not vote in favour of your request, nor will my group support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13691	Mr. Dr. Feurstein, you are the next speaker. 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13712	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, if you had been to the Social Committee 14 days ago, we could have saved this debate here, because there we exchanged thoughts and considerations on this request. Unfortunately, they were not present. [[Abg. May. Peter: It was Mr. Volker Kier there, he is our representative in the Social Committee!]] But I can repeat this for you: We decided, as you know, in 1993 an aliquotation of the holiday for the first six months. Aliquotation shall apply for the first six months of a service relationship. This was not done at the time, however, in such a way as to have made a single request on one side. This has been packed into an overall package of changes in labour and social law. I am therefore very clear to you: We are opposed to the creation of new burdens on employers and employees through unilateral measures, changes. We have therefore also tabled a comprehensive new request, from which you have quoted, to help improve the entire processing situation. I hope that you will agree to this request if it stands for decision here in the House. I should also like to inform you that the discussions on both requests for the re-regulation of the settlement, i.e. both on the SPÖ and on the ÖVP applications, have already begun. In this context, we will have to carry out the necessary expert discussions and expert investigations. I am convinced that in the foreseeable future a solution to this overall problem can be brought about. This means that we can take another step towards the renewal of labour law. I hope that this will be the case very soon. And then, of course, this question that you have addressed will also be dealt with. However, I am opposed to taking unilateral measures which would only be at the expense of workers. I believe that we need to see this overall. That is why I am opposed to this proposal for a time limit and cannot accede to your proposal, your suggestion in this case in any way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13748	Mrs Haller is speaking. Similarly, 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13769	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As we have already heard, this deadline proposal by the Liberals is a change in the right of vacation. It must be foreseen that, as a whole, Austrian workers can benefit from a very generous holiday scheme, one of the most generous in Europe. That is also true of them, and I believe that no one really wants to beg in this House. In return, however, it must also be noted that such a generous holiday scheme has, of course, an impact on the additional wage costs which we consider almost all here to be too high. It is also the fact, Mr Feurstein, that I am right in doing so, that the right of vacation in force has largely proved its worth. However, there are sub-areas, especially where there are strong seasonal fluctuations – there is absolutely right, Mr Peter – in which there are also criticisms, with the economy being simply overly heavy and unfairly burdened, according to our opinion. We liberals have already made a request on this subject in 1993 which goes beyond the now present proposal, Peter. We wanted to have this aliquota scheme not only in the first year, but in total an aliquota holiday scheme: from the first day of service on time. This would also mean administrative simplification, Mr Feurstein, which I would ask you to consider, and that would not be to the detriment of the workers, as Mr Reitsamer has said here. In fact, if there is a one-year entitlement to a working relationship of six months and a day, the current legal situation is justified by no employee's work. It is only the cost of wages. We are therefore absolutely of the opinion that the proposal is justified by Peter, especially because we are talking about this situation, we have to think about it, since the high additional wage costs we have in Austria are always being discussed. Please consider this proposal for a time limit, which we naturally agree with, not only as a principle, but also as a call for content, as an urgent call from the two opposition parties, for something to go further in this area! Operation It is not always this delaying tactic that is going on in this government, namely moving solutions to problems beyond the national elections and perhaps doing something after that! Consider You're doing it! I would really ask you to agree to this deadline request because it is absolutely a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13824	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13846	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can well imagine how my colleague Peter must have hurt his own speech because, as a hotel and tourism manager, he lives on the fact that people have the appropriate leisure time and probably consume this free time not only in the "Weiss Rössl", but also in other hotels, in the hospitality, in tourism as a whole. - That's the one side. Although this has not been presented by Mr Peter, it is also a legitimate side, from which the whole, the holiday theme as a whole, can be considered. The second side, which Mr Peter very much presented, is, as it were, the view of the company, the economic view. And I think that this is quite legitimate, but I believe that it is not just the gold coin or the ducat, which Mr Peter has presented to you, but that the thing has more pages: These gold coins all sparkle wonderfully, but if you look closely at them, you can see that there are other sides as well. The third side would be the general economy when considering holiday issues: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union. As Mr Peter sees it from the business side, of course, from the cost effects for the individual farm, the holiday has another side, namely the impact on working time as a whole. Longer holidays also mean shortening working time, and it is a completely legitimate thing to see, too, from that point of view. This is about annual working time, and the employment effect of this renewal of an annual leave is not insignificant. The fourth side of the whole would be to look at the following – and this is actually very clearly regulated in existing holiday law –: The holiday also has a regenerative function, i.e. it should serve the rest. And I am therefore at the point where I say that I do not share Mr Peter's one-sided argument, but if you look at the holiday practice in Austria and compare it with the right of vacation, you will soon realize that this does not fit in, because the consumption of individual holidays is not possible. But it is quite the rule because many employees – not only because they don't trust themselves to take care of them, or because they have already consumed them, or because there are other reasons than the care – need and also receive a holiday day quickly. At this point, therefore, the very common holiday practice is no longer in line with the right of vacation. Now one could go, look at the establishments and perhaps find that the individual employees consume their holidays only more in the form of individual holidays – for the development and so on – and thus also come on a holiday. One could also say, for example, that consumption in individual holidays, as the right to travel requires, is forbidden. However, the consequences could also be counterproductive. What I want to say is this: The holiday is not so easy, the right does not correspond to the actual practice in the establishments, and there are many more things that need to be looked at more precisely when considering holiday issues, including - I mention this because you, Mr. Feurstein, have put it - the interests of the workers and the interests of the employers. Among other things, progress in the right of vacation may also be the extension of the duration of minimum leave per year to six weeks and, at the same time, the introduction of a system which goes in the direction of Mr Peter's proposal. You should think about it, you should discuss it! This alone is too little, because there are many other facets in the holiday theme, but I think it is right and important to talk about it and not to pretend that everything would fit with the existing holiday right and with the existing holiday practice. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I didn't say that!]] What we demand is also the macroeconomic perspective, the view of employment – not only that of the individual employer, who, as it were, experiences their contradiction by the tourism manager who wants something different – and the many other facets. I think it would be an exciting debate that could and should lead to holiday. We should lead them, so we agree to the deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13881	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 421/A by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades concerning the renewal of the holiday law until 19. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13921	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 7 and 8 of the agenda. As the next speaker on these points, I shall give the floor to Mr Dr Krüger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e13945	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The interest in a strong lawyership should be considerable, because we know from the observations that the degree and maturity of a democracy is quite parallel to the strength of the lawyership in a country. In other words, Where democracy is underdeveloped or even a dictatorial state form exists, there is traditionally also a weak status of the attorneyship. On the other hand, in those democracies that have a marked maturity, the lawyer is strongly present and represented. In other words, it must be in the interests of the legislator that a strong attorneyship has its right of existence in Austria as well. This requirement is only partially taken into account when amending the legal order which is in place today. Overall – that has already been done by my colleague Graf – it has unfortunately remained only at a small step towards opening up, towards modernisation. There can be no mention of a big throw. For example, it is about opening up the very rigid advertising restrictions. What the President of the Bar, Hoffmann, writes to Mrs. President of the Committee on Justice is not true. He writes, there's no commercial ban at all. In reality, the ban on advertising has only been loosened in peripheral areas. In the past, there has not even been publications in which to publish who specializes. – That should now be the possibility of adequate advertising for a professional profession? That's what it's supposed to do? – No talk about it! I also believe that autonomy is not always perceived by the Bars in the interests of the Bars, even less in the interests of the clients and not at all in the interest of opening up to Europe. In fact, the training time – even that has already been mentioned – in Austria is too long. A few days ago, I was talking to a draft of my firm. We had a debate. This concept graduated from the London Business School following the Jus study, and he told me the following: The colleagues from the other European countries who are studying there are very young, very young, compared to the Austrians. Why? - Because they just have shorter training times. I do not accept the Austrian argument, which reads as follows: The longer the training time, the better the qualification. - That's not true! Because those lawyers who give the tone internationally – unfortunately you have to say – are not the Austrian lawyers, they are not Austrian lawyers. And the number of Austrian lawyers who work internationally, not only for foreign clients on the Austrian market, but really internationally, is small. But you can't just shoot yourself off and say: We are building up barriers as far as it goes, and we are shooting at internationality. – That’s the wrong way! That is why I am also in favour of shortening the training time. If a person is studying Jus, finishing the court year and then working for a lawyer for several years, then that must be enough, for if he is not yet able to do so, he is certainly not suitable and will not prevail on the market either. If you have to be 30, 31, 32 years old today to make yourself independent without even working for half a semester abroad, for example in an International Business School, then you will not exist on the market! Overall, this is a negative regulation! Although it may be in the interest of some lawyers of today, it is not in the interest of the lawyers of tomorrow and certainly not in the interest of Austria's economic location. – Unfortunately, the big throw did not succeed. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice! We also had a debate in committee on autonomy. As a free lawyer, I recognize this professional autonomy, which is not least an outflow of the revolutionary efforts of the year 1848. But autonomy must not be reduced to a self-esteem, as was the case once when the lawyer simply raised the training time to seven years in order to make access to the lawyer's profession prohibitive. That can't be in the sense of autonomy! In one point we agree: If you give autonomy to a professional group – and I recognize autonomy, I have already mentioned – then this autonomy must be perceived in accordance with the rules of democracy. Because only then is this autonomy justified. Federal Minister! These rules, it seems to me, are being violated by the revolutionary occupation of committee positions in the individual chambers of the country. Let me give you an example. In Upper Austria, the Office is represented by the Committee. The Committee consists of 15 members, including one president and two vice-presidents. However, it is not the case in the Chamber elections that all the elections or re-elections have to take place in one election, but it is due to the revolutionary post-election to the curious outcome that a election takes place each year, but not about all of them for election or re-election, but only those who do not want to take place anymore. That is to say, it is about a Bureau member and three committee members to re-elect. And the others of course recommend the colleagues. This is nothing but a mutual recommendation cartel! But this has nothing to do with a democracy, with a basic democracy. We liberals therefore make a corresponding request, and it will be evident whether the great coalition or the colleagues of the other opposition parties will also apply this attitude to democracy which is necessary. We make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That means that this would be a small bill correction. Federal Minister! We also agreed that the Bars, to the extent that they interpret these provisions in such a way that they can reoccupy themselves, do not act in the interests of the legislator and that this is not in the intention of the legislator. I therefore invite you to create a legal situation which, at any rate, was in the intention of the historical legislator to put this abuse of autonomy at the expense of democracy – and I say this in full awareness of the significance of this word!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14057	The amendment tabled by Mr Krüger is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Jarolim. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14082	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger! Maybe just like the objections you've raised in the last few minutes. I believe that, in principle, it can be assumed that the lawyership and also the individual lawyers of first individualist and second, are relatively strong in the argumentation and that they themselves can be introduced in the enforcement of their own wishes. I am thinking of this, particularly in view of the last point you mentioned, namely that we should, by the word of law, abolish the fact that a revolutionary post-order can be made with the chamber officials. I don't want to evaluate this. You can certainly discuss it. I mean, however, that from the point of view of autonomy, which is very much in the heart of the professions themselves – not only the standings, but also the members – one should also pay a little attention to what comes from the profession itself. However, I am not one who is sitting in clubs of attorneys without interruption, but on those occasions when I am doing this communication, I have not heard this concern until now. But this should not mean that this concern was only born here in the debate and is not an actual one. I just think that before we intervene with laws in the professions and limit their autonomy, we should really deal seriously with them. I do not want to say that this is not a need under any circumstances, but until now it has not been localized. In any event, I would like to stress that we will only agree if we are really convinced that this concern is very broad within the bar. First point. Second point: The ban on advertising. It is also true that what we have to say about this novel is that we can not only look at it in the light of the present draft law, but also in terms of further development. The fact that the draft law is now under discussion – and this is known to you – is mainly due to the fact that both the board of attorneys – that is a concern of lawyers – and the notaries had the desire to have the opportunity to create their own supply facilities in the first half of 1999 as a result of this section 5 GSVG, and therefore to pass through a bill here in the House as soon as possible. But you also know - and the Committee has also gone in this direction - that the Bar Association has offered or communicated on its own initiative what goes far beyond what we want to decide today in the field of advertising. The new ban on advertising is designed in such a way that, first of all, the law against unfair competition applies and secondly a client protection is normed, saying: that it should not be possible and must not be... – No, not in the law, but it is in the Committee's position, and it is a announcement of the Bar. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: It's not in the law! Nothing!]] Nor can we be able to implement the other one, which is still inside, namely the more transparent tariffs, from today to tomorrow, but that is something I think we should discuss and conclude within the next half of the year. In any event, it must be taken into account that the Branch Directive is to be transposed by March 2000 and that we must, at least by this time, discuss and decide on a change in professional rights here again. So I think it is important to take into account that the present draft, which we are going to discuss and decide today, is not the only one to be discussed, but that there will also be substantial improvements. Mr Maier will say something about the tariff today. It is quite simply necessary to make the lawyer's tariff more transparent and that the client who comes to the lawyer gets an approximate idea of how the pricing takes place and what happens to him. Most lawyers already do. But there are black sheep again and again, which unfortunately is a bad luck to God and a reason for why discussions are coming up again and again. Such excrements make such regulations necessary. In principle, I would like to say in summary: With what is discussed here today, a desire of lawyers and notaries will be met. Moreover, what has been called for here today has actually been secured by the discussion in the past and also by the previous announcements. It is therefore necessary to say: To sum up, this reform is an actual improvement. Finally, I would like to say: As far as the Notariats-Law-Law-Amending Act is concerned, attention will be paid to the fact that the instruments provided for therein – in particular the Register of Letters – are not used in such a way that there are competitive advantages for a profession at the expense of the other professions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14120	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14142	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You have now, if I have counted correctly, been a member of this agenda item of four lawyers, and you must have got the impression that everyone is in fact a different profession. That's a little right, because lawyer's not like a lawyer. If, for example, my predecessor Krüger has, above all, conjured internationality and considered it, I can say that according to statistics and even the expectations for the future, no more than 3 percent of lawyers will be active in international business – nowhere! Of course, these are, absolutely expected, more in the larger countries than in Austria, but 97 percent will also have to do the local business in the future – as I did in Ottakring. That's not a disadvantage! I see it as an advantage and as an essential component, and I only say this so that different positions available in detail can be judged accordingly in the same profession. All in all, I have the impression that the liberals, and above all the lawyers, especially the lawyers, have no friends in the current Federal Government. I can give an example and explain that I am less concerned about whether someone has to be a year shorter or a year more conceptual – I was still one of those who had to be a conceptual for six years, and I claim that it has not hurt me afterwards – but I think it is mainly about the merits of the individual lawyer. This is not only important for the lawyer himself. It is also important for the rule of law, but especially for the client. Because if it is the same as in Germany – in Munich alone, there are about 10,000 lawyers, throughout Austria, relatively unchanged for decades 3 500 – then this leads to lawyers, as in Munich, holding as taxi drivers during the night. In this context, there has also been a curious process which has been conducted in Bremen in any social institution and in which a lawyer has declared that his profession is a talar. Unfortunately, he could not buy a Talar, and it therefore had the duty of the State to buy him a Talar. – We really don’t want to let it come that far, because the lawyer who doesn’t know what to pay for the rent is buying and buying in every direction! We wish ourselves an economically independent and free lawyer. In addition to why we have few friends in the government, why perhaps there is no understanding at all for the freelancers, an example: The economic trustees must transfer to the Chamber of Commerce a part of their work, including their chamber area, namely the area of the Chamber of Commerce, in the form of a newly created trade, the area of accountants. However, in order not to be overly upset about it – they have already done so to each of us in numerous letters – one takes away another profession, which has nothing to do with it at all, namely the lawyers, part of their power of representation before the Supreme Courts and also in insolvency proceedings. That is to say, the economic fidelity, a free profession, must give something, and in order to compensate them for it half, the lawyers who have no role and no role to play in this dispute will be taken away from part of their authority. This is the problem we are facing. And this is not an individual case, but we all have already experienced this in the form of votes on legislative proposals. The professions are taken away from what is going on. As far as this is possible, they are divided into the inconsistency of the classical chambers, the Chamber of Commerce et cetera, the power of representation also in the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce. If I represent someone in front of the Labour and Social Court today, 90 percent of the cases do not involve a freelancer, but rather a lawyer of the Chamber of Labour or a lawyer of the Chamber of Commerce. It's also about how I hear the honors making them more transparent. That's right! You'll just have to watch out, because a lot of people say: What's that cost me? – On the other hand, you can only pick up the tariff and say: "Look, per script sound so much, per negotiation sound so much. This is likely to cost two negotiations." – Of course, it can cost five at the end. One will only be able to say this as a parameter by means of the tariff. In addition to being proud of the fact that there is a package fee of 15,000 p.m. in the case of mutual divorces, I can only say: That's an illusion! For there come two people who live in conflict, and they want to be divorced. Now it is about putting the issue of divorce into a hat, putting the problem of property into a hat, putting the problem of child care into a hat and clarifying the question of maintenance for the spouse and for the children. And for that, there are 15 000 S. According to the statistics the board calculates, after deduction of the permanent directors, 30 percent for the lawyer, thus slightly more than 4,000 s before tax. Please, who has the illusion that a reasonable divorce with the commitment and interest that one expects from the lawyer in such things will be brought on stage for just over 4,000 S gross – with discussions, correspondence, telephone calls and at least a trial in court? – I think it will be necessary to be very careful to resist the temptation to limit the liberals even more clearly than is the case anyway, and above all to get them economically in control. This temptation will have to be resisted, and we liberals will do everything they can to resist taking it into account!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14207	Mr Michalek has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14228	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the two novels on the professional law of lawyers and notaries, there are now important legislative drafts to bring about far-reaching changes in the legal bases of these two classic legal professions. I would like to take the opportunity to point out from this occasion, as I would like to stress, the Minister of State responsible, the essential key point of view, which, especially in today's modern legal and economic life, also comes to the lawyers and notaries with a view to safeguarding and safeguarding the democratic rule of law, the fundamental and freedom rights of citizens and the good functioning of the legal system, which must also be said. Ladies and gentlemen! The liberal professions are – and one has to remember this over and over again – guarantees the enforcement of citizens' rights both to the state and its institutions and to other collective powers and overpowered economic enterprises. In our ever-increasing mass society, they guarantee individual citizens through personal advice, through personal help the necessary individuality and humanity in safeguarding their rights and interests. The increased international economic relations significantly expanded the field of activity of the liberal professions in the economic sector and assigned them new tasks. At the same time, the activity of the professions is also a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of these international economic relations and the associated economic opportunities of market participants. However, in the face of all openness and safeguards for internationalization, the legal profession exercise must not be overlooked, and I certainly do share the opinion of Mr Ofner, that legal advice and representation will continue to apply mainly to the local client through the legal council, the legal representation almost "ums eck", "in the side street". In order for the professions to be able to fulfil their important tasks now and in the future, certain framework conditions laid down in the statutory professional regulations need to be continuously adapted to changing requirements. If the liberal professions are made into far-reaching professional regulations, it should not be overlooked that many things have happened in recent years to modernise these professions and that they do not conclude themselves in any reasonable way with liberalisation and deregulation. However, liberalisation and deregulation must not lead to a change of identity in the core of the self-understanding of the professions, to a weakening of the basic principles applicable to the activities of the professions or to a loss of quality of their services to their clients. The trust of citizens in the services of the professions serving its fundamental interests, their independence, trustworthiness, confidentiality and a high quality standard of their professional services must be safeguarded. It should also be noted that the services of the liberal professions differ considerably from those of other service professions and cannot be measured by the standards of the commercial market alone and cannot be reduced to mere service facilities for industry and industry. In particular, in the interests of clients who are not generally able to assess quality and price adequacy of professional services, liberalisation and deregulation are set limits, and, so to speak, as a consumer protection measure, the necessary professional training rules and the control of their compliance are required. One of the basic principles of the professional service is independent and personal professional training. Their strengthening also contributes to a number of regulations in the two legislative drafts. Thus, the principle of personal training was taken into account when creating the new form of the GmbH, which undoubtedly strengthens the international competitiveness of the Austrian lawyer. Therefore, the otherwise permitted possibility of the appointment of foreign business leaders and the award of legal proceedings at the GmbH should be as excluded as – at least for the time being – a mere company and, at least, the participation of foreign capital companies. I do not think that this restriction will reduce the competitiveness of the law firms. Rather, I believe that this will strengthen the necessary close relationship of trust between lawyer and client. One aspect of the independence of the professions is to ensure the necessary economic basis for professional training. In order to maintain these, it is also necessary to ensure that legal and notarial benefits are adequately honoured, which, of course, must also be taken into account in social matters. This basic idea has also been taken into account in the changes made in the draft law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Officials of the European Communities. Another indispensable basis for the activities of the liberal professions is the absolute seriousness and confidence of citizens in the integrity of the legal and notarial profession. In this respect, the legal basis provided for in the Rules of Procedure for the Directives of the Austrian Bar Association on the exercise of trusts and the legal provisions laid down in the Notarial Regulations should be seen in relation to the obligations of the Notary in connection with trusts and the electronic trust register laid down so far by directives. The significant increase in the minimum amount of insurance for professional liability insurance in the legal and notarial order primarily serves the legitimate interests of the clients, but also provides some protection of the lawyer and notary for economic disasters. Another essential feature for the freedom of the legal profession and its professional independence is the democratically legitimated self-government of the profession, which has already been addressed by Mr Krüger, with the power of regulation, control and discipline. It is an efficient judicial system, which ensures that not a few black sheep can call into question the reputation of an entire profession, that is not only in the interests of the profession, but also in the interests of the clients and therefore indispensable condition for a general acceptance of this professional self-government. In this sense, the additional possibilities provided for in the Disciplinary Statute for lawyers and lawyers, in particular the new measure for the protection of foreign property entrusted to them, are to be seen. In order to enable the professions to live up to their responsible activities, it is more necessary than ever to have a high professional quality standard, which can only be achieved through comprehensive vocational training. It is precisely because I am aware that there are major differences in vocational training across Europe, but, as I believe, there is also a need for a certain degree of harmonisation of the training standards of the professions in the European Union with regard to freedom of services and establishment in the European Union, that I have also made this issue the subject of a conference organised during the Austrian EU Presidency in Vienna on "The importance of the professions in the integrated Europe" and I hope that this event will bear the appropriate fruit. At any rate, I consider it incompatible with the requirement of the high quality standards of the liberal professions, overhaste and unreflected levelling down and, as often required, to speak at the lowest level as possible, for example, to shorten the respective training periods inappropriately or even to eliminate professional examinations. Optimal training and training of professional candidates are the best guarantees for the expertise needed in the interests of clients and in the interests of their own career and competitiveness. As far as Mr Graf's position is concerned, and in particular their social security, I understand this point in principle and believe that it is necessary to deal with it more closely, with the improvement of the provision of services provided by the novel. As for the legal advertising you have referred to, Mr Krüger, I trust the commitment of the Austrian Bar Association to the fact that the relevant provisions of the directive are further liberalised in line with the provisions of the law against unfair competition. High house! I am sure that, with the two draft laws in place today for the adoption of the decision, we will take an essential step towards the rational modernisation of the professional rights of lawyers and notaries, which will enable these two professions to fully fulfil their responsibility for the democratic rule of law and for the individual citizens in the future. I would therefore ask you to approve these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14329	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14350	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the Notariats-Law-Law-Amending Act. I am pleased that there has been no longer any opinion here that it is such a great throw, because in reality there are no fundamental innovations in it, but only corresponding developments that have been working for decades will now be implemented by law. That the collections and registers are legally sanctioned is okay, but it is not a special innovation at all. Also, the fact that they are electronically managed and operated in the future is not what makes them overcrowdingly happy. The rules relating to liability insurance and the renewed intensifications in the field of trusts are useful, especially in view of what has happened in recent times, and are particularly suitable for strengthening the confidence of the population in the notaries, but also in lawyers as a result – there are similar regulations to be decided today. We also think it is positive that, at last, in the field of notarial examination – but also the legal examination – it is the view that European law must also be taken into account, and we will therefore agree to these provisions. In the field of lawyers, from our point of view, Federal Minister, it looks a little different. But I would also like to start here with the positive. That there will finally be the possibility for lawyers to make GmbH's, we think it makes sense. We do not understand and share your view that it is necessary to set the insurance sum so apodically with over 33.5 million schilling, because that would be something you could regulate in relation to the individual lawyer. One could say that depending on how many lawyers are in such a GmbH, the amount of insurance must be corresponding. But that's a little thing. What we do not consider consistent in this regard, Mr Federal Minister, is that it will be possible, in future, for lawyers belonging to such an attorney's GmbH to operate their own law firm in parallel, but no other attorney's GmbH may belong. For if it is so that one has to bring in all its power within the framework of a GmbH, then the regulation with its own law firm would not be logically Foundable in itself. But if one says that one's own law firm can be operated parallel to that, then it would be necessary at least from the logic to say that one can also be in a second lawyer's office. In this area we see at least an illogical structure. In the field of part-time employment, which will now come to be for con siders, we see this as well. Although it will be allowed to work part-time in the future, it will be restricted to the field of the Mother Protection Act and the Karenz Leave Act, although in any event any employment of a con­cept will have to be accepted by the board as acceptable employment, the board says that that was enough. The fact that someone is employed all day with a lawyer does not automatically mean that the board accepts it, but it depends on what has actually happened there. This is why we do not think it reasonable and objectively justified that, although part-time employment is allowed on the one hand, it is restricted to the protection of the mother and the care sector on the other. I should therefore like to make an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Again: We think it is against the background that someone practically learns and learns this profession and then there is still the Chamber who, at the end of the day, must say that this job is accepted as a training period, for no reason to limit it so closely. If you decide to open it, then we think from the Liberals that you should open it up all the way – taking into account the limits that are necessary anyway and which are to be observed by the Chamber. In the field of disciplinary status, too, Mr Federal Minister, we believe that we have a little hit the target. Look at § 19. According to § 19 new, in the future, the Disciplinary Council – although it is a Kann-Determining, I would nevertheless like to point out – can decide on interim measures against a lawyer, if – so far so – a judicial criminal proceedings is pending against the lawyer or – that is new – pre-examinations by the security authorities are carried out by the prosecutor's office. Of course, it is only a cannibal provision that the Disciplinary Council can decide on such interim measures. In our view, however, it is difficult for lawyers – you have already done this – to be exposed to natural functional opposition in a functioning legal structure to the prosecutors, solely by the fact that preliminary surveys are being initiated against them, and there is a risk that there will also be measures on the part of the Disciplinary Council. I now know that this will not usually be the case. But it is true, Mr Federal Minister, that there have also been cases in Austria in which lawyers have been innocently arrested for two weeks. These were subsequently economically ruined, although it was then found that the police – not least with the prosecutor – had practiced an evil interplay. Against the background of a staggering attitude, particularly in the field of security authorities, which is a more widespread attitude, the lawyers are, anyway, only the lawyers connected with the criminals, I think it is wrong to go here and now introduce such a provision. You know that even in the face of grid arrest and noise attack, important professions - as you yourself say - have not been stopped, and we therefore believe that such a provision is superfluous. I would also like to make a motion for an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, however, we will also agree to the changes in the field of lawyers, because they are certainly bringing positive aspects – for example, with the introduction of capital companies and the other innovations that have been made. On the amendments tabled by the other groups, I would ask that these be distributed to all the political groups so that they can reach an opinion on this. If we don't get them, you'll probably understand that we can't judge things that we don't know, and we won't agree to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14484	The two amendments tabled by Mr Magistrate. Barmüller has been handed over and read just now, are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mr Michalek, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke once again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14509	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to stop you any longer, and I am glad that Mr Barmüller, despite the amendment, has meant that his group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. But I want to replicate just because you have stressed the consequence in other questions. Even now, judicial preliminary surveys have been a point of reference for measures according to § 19 para. 1 Disciplinary statute. It only changes the fact that not only judicial but also security preliminary surveys are a connection point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] No, there is no quality difference at all, ladies and gentlemen. This is purely from the point of view of effectiveness, and especially in the case of economic crime, it is very often not the path of the judicial preliminary surveys, but of the economic police preliminary surveys. There is no difference in quality between a prior judicial survey and a security preliminary survey. Obviously, you should not accept either or both. I believe, however, that both are justified and that, moreover, the material conditions under which the standing authority can intervene are so closely regulated that it cannot be said that it could be shot at the target - in any case no more than any other measure that can be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14548	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14569	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to make a point of your remarks because you mentioned the lawyers as the last one. It is not quite clear to me what you have to say, Mr President. Barmüller tried to explain because I also believe that there is a difference. But be it as it may be. I just don't think he's going to get through with his amendment, although I'm more inclined to give him the approval. Nevertheless, the Greens consider the two laws now under discussion to be largely positive. Allow me now to focus on one area which has not yet been mentioned in detail. Of course, the fact that the professional practice for lawyers is now possible in the form of GmbHs and that there is now the possibility of taking new paths in the sense of more deregulation, is positive. But for me above all, the change in collective bargaining law is very crucial. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has received a green suggestion. Last year, 1997, we were not yet able to get through, but now the insight has grown, and at least part of our suggestions at the time are now being implemented – 1:1 can be said. This concerns the fixed-rate-honorary arrangement for common divorces which I think is very important. However, much more importantly, the basis for calculating the entitlements to spouse care and child care benefits has been reduced. This has indeed been a major problem in recent years. Simply and simply it was so that someone who wanted to sue often failed because of the fact that the basis for calculating the lawyer's rate was so high that it was impossible for him to complain because it would simply be too expensive. I am pleased that you have received this suggestion, which has come out of practice so to speak, and was requested, above all, by family judges and family judges who have seen this dilemma every day. It is recognized that the opposition is based on the motto "Steter Dropping is hollowing the stone", that is, with a certain degree of persistence, at least in the Ministry of Justice. Federal Minister! Thank you very much! I do not thank myself on my own behalf, but rather as a people's representative for those who benefit from it. The key words of collective reform and collective legislation lead me to a second comment. - Sorry, I forgot something. I regret that the second suggestion, which concerns the division procedure according to the marital law, has not been taken up, namely marital utility and marital savings. This is above all a problem that occurs very often in the country where the spouses – there hardly any other housing option – build a family house that is heavily burdened with loans. Marriage then breaks, the marital property is divided. It is a fact that, in the end, nothing remains for both parties, and not even part of the rest of the family then has a basis for existence. I believe that this is something that would be superior in a next step, because it also corresponds to a need for practice. A final comment on collective bargaining law: I have already asked the Minister of Justice and the President of the Committee on Justice, which is worth a letter from the President of the Austrian Bar Association when a promise is made in him. Both of them assured me in agreement: A lot! I hope that both of you will keep right that this is true and that what President Hoffmann has written to Mrs. Dr. Fekter – I see him sitting up here, that is why I say it – will actually be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! Social, transparent and comprehensible pricing is wanted by the customer – the customer is the client. It's not primarily about saying that lawyers deserve too much, they're too expensive. The lawyers are a service profession and should also receive money for the services they bring. It is now not a fundamental question whether this is too much or not, the question is only whether what they want and get is also understandable to the customer. In the letter of the President, I do not want to read it all in detail now, to inform in time, it is a question of asking for interim accounts to be made, of the right of the customer to obtain information about the fees already started in the meantime, and of the fact that there are often false or non-exact cost assessments and that the customer has a right to know, which now costs so much to be able to act. I think that's very useful. I have not only confidence in the rule of law, but also confidence in those professions that represent the people seeking legal protection, and that is why we are now getting rid of the things that will develop there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One last: As has already been said since Austria's accession to the EU, another important issue that I am now facing is the fact that there is a massive discrimination against so-called third-country nationals, which leads to the exercise of certain professions in Austria. In Austria, a non-EU-respective non-EEA citizen cannot be a lawyer. Now I ask you: Is that clear? – No one would understand that, for example, a Turkish, a Yugoslav, a Hungarian, a Czech, Slovak national in Austria should not be a surgeon. If he is a good surgeon, then above all the quality he has in his professional practice. There's a "close job" for lawyers. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only discrimination, but it is also completely incomprehensible that the exercise of such a profession, which I consider to be a service profession, is linked to nationality. But the Federal Minister - now I come back to the persistence of the opposition - has been made so often aware that I believe that it is only a matter of time until this is changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14632	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Maier. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14653	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to raise a special problem with my remarks, namely the problem of clients. However, I would also like to address the arguments of the opposition at the same time. Mr Ofner said there was no understanding of the lawyers. - I disagree with him. Mr. Ofner! We just have no understanding of black sheep, no understanding of cost-dispensers and millions of frauds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Graf meant that the wind was crying to the lawyers in the face. – I think that is necessary because certain developments have occurred, which are also underestimated by one’s own professional group and which have not been adequately responded to. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to intervene here also by law, and do not hide that I would have expected a clearer regulation in the field of lawyers. I have not, of course, given the hope that there will be another step towards reform in the field of professional law. The two templates should in principle be accepted. That's the first step. It corresponded to the wishes of both professional groups. But now we are also dealing with other questions. If Mr. Graf has complained about the corner writing, if he has spoken about it, the real lawyer, the lawyer of the citizen is the lawyer, I ask you: Why come to me, the corner writer in the Chamber of Workers, consumers who are over-prepared, whose trust funds have been neglected and who do not know why they have to pay a fee to this extent? – I therefore call myself on this angular writing and think it necessary. I believe that there are four areas that need to be discussed in this context. First of all, there is the information and the information that are partially neglected. There are, for example, special information obligations for real estate agents to be met, and if they are not respected, there is a reduction in the fee. I'm wondering, Why does this not happen to lawyers in the future? – If I look at the costs complaints, I have to say in principle that I consider the right to pay, as it is here, to be a legal right to participate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You want to be a lawyer yourself!]] The higher the dispute, the longer the procedure and the more the method of settlement, the higher the fees, and the more the fact that the lawyer definitely comes to his money. If the convict can't pay, he'll get the money from his client. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To me clients are sent away from the chamber!]] There is another problem in the area of liability in the case of defects in art. We have the problem here – I agree – that consumers, as well as doctors, are not willing to process. I welcome the trustees, as they can currently be foreseen, the authorisation by law for the Bar. I welcome the legal anchorage in the Notariats-Law-Law-Law-Amending Act, but believe that we need to do more. We must define special information and information requirements in the law and discuss the cost law in general. We need uniform, federal rules for the settlement of trusts, for all trustees, not only for lawyers, so that the Jetzelsbergers, Itzlingers, Jeannées and how they all call these millions of frauds can no longer be committed. However, we also need a trust damage insurance, which is currently only available in the field of notary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With these legal proposals and a further discussion, we can guarantee greater legal certainty for the right-looking population in Austria. On the other hand, we can also strengthen confidence in the legal professions. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14711	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1638 of the supplements. There are amendments tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller and comrades as well as Deputies Dr. Krüger and Comrades. I shall proceed in such a way as to allow me to vote on the parts concerned by the amendments referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Barmüller and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I Z4. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Who is to give a sign of consent? - That's the majority. This part of the draft law has been adopted in the version of the Government template. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I.Z.15. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part has been accepted by the majority in the version of the Government template. Deputies Mag. Barmüller and comrades have an amendment concerning § 19 para. 1 entered in Article IV Z 4. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Who is to give a sign of consent? – This part of the draft law has been adopted by the majority in the version of the Government template. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever agrees, may give a sign. - That's the majority. This part has been accepted by the majority. We shall now come to the third reading. Whoever gives approval to this draft law at third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. This draft law has been adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1681. Whoever is in favour of this resolution may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 164.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades on the recognition by all the professions subject to the right of discipline. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Dr Graf and Comrade on the protection of lawyers and lawyers for the supply, active and passive right of election for lawyers and the introduction of the choice of letters to the Bars. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1633 of the supplements. To this end, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Mr Graf and Mr Comrades' amendment. I shall also proceed here in such a way that I will first vote on the parts affected by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law. Mr Graf and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which provides for the deletion of paragraphs 15 and 19 in Article I. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever agrees here may give a sign. – The above part of the draft law has been adopted by the majority in the version of the Government template. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever is for this is to give a sign of approval. – This part has been adopted unanimously. A unanimous vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give a sign. The draft was adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades on the introduction of new Austrian registers and document archives. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1553 of the Supplements): Agreement pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities and Declaration by the Republic of Austria pursuant to Article 7(1) of the Treaty on European Union. 2; Protocol pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities and Declaration by the Republic of Austria pursuant to Article 6(1) thereof. 2; Protocol pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the interpretation of the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities by the Court of Justice of the European Communities by means of a preliminary ruling and a declaration by the Republic of Austria pursuant to Article 2 (1677 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1526 of the Supplements): Convention on the control of the bribery of foreign officials in international trade and Annex (1678 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14931	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda. The debate will be held under one. Oral reporting has not been desired. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Dr. König, with a five-minute limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e14959	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With the two clear proposals, the National Council removes gaps in the fight against internationally organised crime. It is a well-known fact today that the great resources that the European Union administers in support naturally arouse the interest of international organised crime in a particular way and try to reach them through bribery and corruption and in other ways. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] For example, the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Community states that fraud in connection with the revenue and expenditure of the Communities is in many cases taking on cross-border forms and is often committed by criminal organizations. The best measure, on the other hand, is undoubtedly prevention, namely clean management and effective controls. But where it is found that criminal acts have been committed, there are currently gaps because the criminal provisions are either non-existent or different and therefore a persecution is not possible. These gaps are aimed at closing the two proposals, namely the Convention on the control of bribery and corruption, which is now continuing, for all OECD countries, and the Convention on the Protection of the European Union’s Financial Interests in the field of the European Union. It is now essentially a matter of standardising minimum criminal offences in a uniform manner, ensuring that there is also a procedural aid, and that, if necessary, extradition can take place. That is to say, all that is so painfully missed is to be created in this way. I believe that this is a very important step which will contribute to the fact that in this fight against international organised crime there will be success. A motion for a resolution by the two government parties will be tabled by the speakers, in which we set out the march route for the reforms in Brussels to support the demands of the European Parliament in this area. This, according to the report of the independent Commission on the accusations of fraud, mismanagement and nepotism in the European Commission, is, of course, the rapid establishment of a capable new Commission. The agreement of the Heads of State or Government on former Italian Prime Minister Prodi as candidates for the Presidency is now an opportunity that, in fact, after the Amsterdam procedure, an agreement can be reached quickly with the European Parliament and that such a new Commission is very soon to come up with, of course, those Commissioners who have made accusations to the independent Commission. However, there is much more to it, according to the experts' proposals. It is a question of laying down a personal responsibility for the Commissioners, so that the whole Commission does not always have to withdraw if there is to be a procedure. It is also about the fact that officials are not immune to official offences. The question is that the UCLAF, the fraud unit, is independent and also has the means to be able to use it accordingly, and it is a question of providing the European Court of Auditors with the opportunity to do more research and control on the use of these funding in the national Member States. That is, I think, the essential thing we need to achieve here. I mean, we can say together: Transparency and effective controls are the best prerequisites for Europe's citizens to have confidence in a clean EU administration.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15014	Mrs Dr. Hlavac. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15035	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr King has already said everything essential to the two conventions. They are to be fulfilled by the passing of laws. In part, this has already been done by the Criminal Change Act 1998, in part it will happen in the near future. What makes the two agreements so up-to-date is, above all, the current situation in the European Union, the crisis which has been triggered by the resignation of the whole Commission or, more importantly, not by the resignation of Commissioners, but by the behaviour of individual Commissioners, which has been marked by a lack of economy, vetty and corruption, which has led the European Parliament to make demands and report to the Council of Wise Men, which speaks a very clear language, and which, although not all Commissioners, does not, in fact, cause serious shortcomings. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the activities of our colleague, the Social Democratic Member of the European Parliament Herbert Bösch, who, since the start of his work in the European Parliament as a member of the Committee on Budgets, has been very closely involved in this fight against fraud, who was at the outset even smiled, because he researched and examined the files so meticulously, but now clearly corrects the results. I therefore think that it was a real sign that the Commission as a whole has resigned. I also think it is very positive that an agreement on the candidate for the President of the Commission has been reached today in the European Council. This shows that the European Council takes the problem seriously, that a new start is to be launched and, most importantly, that it was possible to reach an agreement with regard to the Commission. I therefore hope that a proposal concerning the renewed Commission can be presented to the European Parliament soon. This is certainly a very positive development for the European Parliament, which shows the strengthened role it plays in Europe after Maastricht and Amsterdam. This strengthening of the European Parliament is undoubtedly justified and has found its justification over the last few weeks. However, it is not only about new faces but also about structural reform, it is about eliminating existing shortcomings, improving control and also enabling individual Commissioners to be replaced. As we Austrians must be very interested in the fact that the European Union is working properly to ensure that the funds are used effectively and properly, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would like to ask you to include this motion for a resolution in the negotiations, and I would like to stress once again that these are very important points and are in the interest of all Austrians that there is a fundamental reform in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15144	Since the request is properly submitted and supported accordingly, I am happy to comply with your wishes. The application is under negotiation. Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15168	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say a word on the previous item on the agenda: What is opposed by a chamber official's representative to hatred and envy, to an entire profession and every representative of that profession, makes you glad. I am only grateful for the fact that we are fighting with such an open visor, because all the liberals and all those who know what the professions in democracy mean will realize that they will have to be very on the hat in the future in front of this corner from which these frying words come. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now on the subject. An old saying says that the legislator always depends on the offenders for a longer period of time. This is undoubtedly the case in the present case. If you read the Preamble, you can see it clearly. And it's all very up-to-date, you just need to open up the newspapers of the last few days. It says, among other things: "In view of the fact that fraud in connection with the revenue and expenditure of the Communities is in many cases taking on cross-border forms and is often committed by criminal organizations, Whereas the protection of the European Communities' financial interests requires the prosecution of fraudulent acts at the expense of those interests and the establishment of a uniform definition for that purpose', and so on; That is to say, the Commission's moral image and all its breakdowns are open. Late, but still – always with a certain delay, it can't be different – the legislator reacts. I say that it is not a matter of outsiders in Brussels and the surrounding area, but of the fact that crime has become almost system-immanent. There, at least as far as the officials are concerned, there is no real choice and no control at all. And what did it lead to? – That a few days ago the whole Commission had to take the hat. A system-immanent process, and the legislator reacts. The liberals will also agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15223	Mrs Gredler has also been mentioned. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am very pleased that in this matter we all have the same opinion in the House that the agreement, which has already been implemented largely in Austria, is absolutely necessary. In this context, I would like to take back a word that I used on the occasion of the emergency, and that is the word "sinning". I would like to expressly apologise for this inappropriate expression in the House. Now to the speech of the representative of the SPÖ: Mr Bösch, representative of the European Parliament, did not invent control. Before becoming a member of the European Union, there have been a number of budgets which have not been finally voted on, because the Committee on Budgetary Control has long refused its approval, because the Commission has not implemented any implementations that were urgently necessary. That is why I believe that we should not attach this to the flags, but it is a mechanism that has been in place in the European Union for a long time. However, the efficiency of this mechanism must be questioned. As far as the Commission's control authority, UCLAF, is concerned, it must be said that there are about 960 to 970 procedures pending there. In 90 percent of these cases, it is up to the governments to bring fraud to justice. 90 percent of known fraud cases are not brought to justice by the governments of the respective states. That's where we should be. This is the point where we have to say: Mr Finanzminister! Minister of Justice! If you do not do this with a proper procedure, you will receive less paid out next year in the corresponding budget line for the disputed value. That would be a fair thing. Then it could be said as soon as it has been handed over to the prosecutor, the case is done for the European Union, and the judicial authorities of the respective countries should deal with it. But this is not the point at all. I myself was rapporteur on financial matters in 1996 for the EU's largest environmental programme at that time. It was a case of fraud in Italy, which was not even brought before the courts, although it was known precisely that it was a case of a vet economy, there were no benefits and so on and so on. At that time I was told that there was no handiwork. If the Italian Government does not become active, then our hands are tied, and we can't do anything. That's why: The approach is government. If the Social Democrats are advocating to be the leader of the majority of governments in Europe, I must say: In the fight against fraud, they have a lot to do. They should set up where they can, and force the Minister of Finance to make a cow trade: You're suing, so if you don't get the money, you'll get less than that percentage. - But that's not going to be done. In addition, I must say: If the European Parliament is now given a anti-fraud unit, the chairman of the Unit will be a person nominated by the Commission, and I think that is absurd. That is no control at all in this case. It should be in the hands of Parliament who controls the Commission, but people should certainly not be appointed by a Commission proposal. There are companies worldwide that have accepted these controls that become active worldwide and have their local offices everywhere. Why not take private institutions for control? Why should we consider doubling and tripleding the mechanisms that already exist? What is there a European Court of Auditors for? Why do you still have to invent a unit? I would like to say to the resolution put forward by the Socialist Party here with the heading "The members of the Federal Government are asked to continue all the measures already taken at European level intensively" : It's ridiculous what's been done so far! This is not an intensive continuation, but it is once a fundamental consideration of what is to be done. In principle, we would have mechanisms, but they do not work yet. I'll come to the next point. I think that Mr Prodi has now been appointed a very good thing. This means, however, that Mr Santer has to go in the next few days. However, the Commissioners, who were the reason for the hurling of the Commission as a whole, remain in office. We don't know how long they're in office. We hope that they will have left by the end of May. But surely we are not. You can, of course, also be in charge by December. This is not a new beginning, which is declared there, but actually a stuttering engine that does not know how to continue. That's what I'm doing. We should ask for a new Commission, and all Commissioners should be re-appointed. I do not wish to make any personal objections to Commissioner Fischler. I may have been misunderstood. He certainly has not been guilty of personal enrichment. But he knew that it was not best ordered in large areas of the Commission. The fight against fraud is not all right. In fact, orders are not made according to EU standards. The whole Commission has covered this behaviour, and the whole Commission was not ready to go in January when it was given the opportunity to take this step before the European Parliament. And that's what I owe! In an area where we know that we have to expect between 4 and 5 percent of corruption cases, to say that I am completely innocent – that is the point that is not right. Personally, Mr Fischler is a very valuable politician. However, there is more to be found in the fight against fraud in agriculture than just a few things. I regret that we do not want to take this into consideration. I regret that the new beginning of the Commission should start in such a way that about half of the Commissioners remain in office. It shouldn't be that way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] New beginnings mean that the achievements of the Treaty of Amsterdam should, of course, be used as a basis for the appointment of this new Commission. However, since this Treaty of Amsterdam will not enter into force until about June of this year, I believe that, if a new Commission is to be appointed in May, orders should be made on the basis of these criteria and should not be disregarded. I think we have a lot to do in the European Union. The fact that under some circumstances almost every 20. Schilling gets into wrong pockets, all of us really have to shake up. And here, in particular, all the governments of Europe – not only the parliaments but all the governments of Europe – are called upon to make all fraud pending. Otherwise, there is no money from the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15325	Mrs Magnette is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15346	Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the protocol and on the agreement and, above all, on the Convention on the bribery of foreign officials in international trade – which is not now restricted to the EU – there would be little to say, in fact, except that everyone is in favour of it and that would be useful. I was, of course, somewhat surprised by this motion for a resolution which Mrs Hlavac has read here. That's where I have to laugh. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Then laugh!]] The Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor are currently sitting in the European Council, and we are somehow hopping behind in Parliament and blessing on what climate and dish have already sold, so to speak, deliberately. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a criticism of the points of content. It would have to be everyone with blindness if he did not say that what has now become public, what has been revealed – and also with the participation of Austrian Members; I would certainly agree with your praise for Mr Bösch, not because he is a SPÖler, but because he is an Austrian MP who has made Austria an honor – but that we are now so practically refusing the press releases of climate and dish, no, so please, this goes a little too far! What Mrs. Dr. Gredler has recently said about the really delicate things, what the people trust in the institutions of the European Union – and above all, with regard to the 13th century. June and the EU's elections – this is, of course, extremely serious. If waste management, the economy of friends, uncontrolled flows of money are something that will not really be taken seriously after the scenarios of the last week – and a sample of nails will be whether, when ordering the new EU Commission, although it would simply not be necessary to legally comply with the Amsterdam Treaty procedure, which has a higher standard of democracy policy than the previous procedure – I can see how convincing a person is in what he declares, whether it is in motions for resolutions, in press releases or in interviews. That's something for voters, too. June will be a degree knife: How does democracy enter the European Union? And a very essential question is that of strengthening parliamentary control. That'll prove to be true. I think that's what the National Council should do now: Climate and bowls call for steps and initiatives to be taken at the European Council so that this can actually happen, so that there are no formal speeches. But, Mrs Hlavac, I have no problem with accepting the motion for a resolution. I just do not think that it is really based on all the honest intentions of the interference of the Austrian Parliament. I don't mean he's dishonest, but I'll put it this way: We are also happy to agree with the two press releases, namely the "socialist correspondence" and the "ÖVP press service". If it serves the thing, it's good. Maybe we'll make you a favor, but I'm not so convinced. It smells very much after show.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15395	Mrs Konrad has also been mentioned. Perhaps I should draw attention to the folders of the clubs, if they are there, that the quorum for the subsequent vote has not yet been reached. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if we are talking about EU protection mechanisms against fraud, bribery and abuse and there are similar agreements for decision-making, then of course this is happening against the background of the development in the EU, which the Commission launched last week in its resignation. I am not sarcastic at all and not at all hostile to the EU, if I say that the present Conventions express indirectly that the report, which led to the resignation of the Commission, gives only indications of what can happen in such a large and difficult-to-understand administration. But, ladies and gentlemen, all those who want to simply imitate complex systems and deny differentiated structures, I would like to take the wind out of the sails of approval. Neither the abolition of the EU nor the abolition of the Commission are the solution. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: the abolition of Mrs. Cresson!]] I consider these constant calls for abolition, even after removal, to be signals of a questionable problem-solving strategy. Elimination is very often a weak solution and often it is not at all. In view of the global networking of economic interests and businesses, the abolition of large political and administrative networks cannot be a useful solution, at least no solution in the interests of democracy and in the interests of citizens. If the European Community is to be seen and assessed as a political and economic network, it must recognize that its structural problems are not solved by the destruction of the structures, but by agreed standards, by structural control and by verifiable control mechanisms. A standard agreement will be reached, for example, with this agreement. The aim is therefore to establish a compatibility between national legal systems to ensure that criminal offences can be better pursued at the expense of the Community in which several Member States are involved. Ladies and gentlemen! The identified errors and weaknesses must and will also be affected. The political control mechanisms must be improved and differentiated, the rights of Members must be extended and the administration must be better equipped in their duties. The motion for a resolution which has been tabled here today aims in this direction. Mistakes in the network are not due to the resolution of the network, but can be reduced by better sniffing of the stitches, by better material, by protective devices and by attentive users. This agreement welcomes my group as such a protection facility which is necessary for the functioning of the network.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15464	There are no more words. The debate is closed. There is also no final word from the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of this Treaty in 1553 of the Supplements. If you want to give these, I ask for an appropriate sign. – The approval shall be granted unanimously. I shall now vote on the request made by the Committee on Justice, according to which the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria pursuant to Article 7(1). 2 and the Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria pursuant to Article 6(1) thereof. 2 on the basis of Article 50(2). 2 Federal Constitutional Law must be fulfilled through the adoption of laws. If you agree, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is one-bright the case. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Justice, in accordance with Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act of this Convention and the protocols in Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish are announced by the fact that they are available for public inspection during the hours of office in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This approval is unanimous. Accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Khol and others on measures to combat corruption and increase transparency in the European Union. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. (E 165.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and the Annex thereto in 1526. If you want to give these, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the case with the vote. The approval shall be granted. I now leave on the request of the Committee on Justice, according to which the present State Treaty, in accordance with Article 50(a) of the EC Treaty. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passing laws to be fulfilled is to be voted. If you agree, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is one-bright the case. Accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, which is in accordance with Article 49(l) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act must be censure of the French language version of the Convention by giving notice to the public during the hours of office of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you agree, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is one-bright the case. This request is therefore accepted. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1571 of the Supplements): Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the field of International Adoption and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (1676 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15588	I'm calling the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mrs Dr Mertel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Please, Madam Member,
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15618	Mr President. Minister! High house! One of the most important and, as I believe, the most important tasks of policy is to promote the best possible protection of children worldwide. Each child should have the right to grow up "to full and harmonious development of his personality in a family and surrounded by happiness, love and understanding". – This is what the Preamble of the Convention says. And by the way, it says: Priority should be given to appropriate measures to enable the child to remain in the country of origin. – That is, priority over adoption are given to all those measures that improve the situation of the child in the home country, the home country. If no suitable family can be found for a child in the country of origin, in the home country, an international adoption for the child can offer the advantage of coming to a permanent family. However important the possibility of an international adoption for a single fate may be, it is not, in my view, a substitute for appropriate social policy measures in the countries of origin. This Convention also lays down that international adoptions should be carried out for the benefit of the child, but also in respect of the fundamental rights of the child. The central point of this Convention for international adoptions is therefore the explicit anchoring of the child's well-being, which is the task of every adoption procedure. Absolutely to prevent child abduction, trafficking with children and the sale of children. I think that trafficking in children is one of the worst and worst phenomena we encounter today. That is why I support the ratification because I think that this agreement is an instrument which regulates international adoption and will not be abused for the purpose of child trafficking. The interest in international adoptions has increased enormously in recent years, but at the same time, abuse has increased. In rich countries, the willingness to adopt children from poorer countries is greater and the so-called free market is regulated for supply and demand, but this also promotes the increase in abuse. Private associations, religious organizations and lawyers make themselves worldwide intermediaries of adoptions abroad, which often do not have in mind the child's well-being, but have the goal of dealing with the need and the predictable compassion. We must oppose this phenomenon with all the appropriate means, with all the means available to us, because there must be no child trafficking, and there must be no child abduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Consequently, Article 4 of the Convention explicitly states that consent to adoption must not be caused by a payment or other consideration, and Article 32 expressly prohibits any undue profit in connection with the mediation and settlement of international adoptions. However, I also consider the protection rules of the Convention to be very important. I also think it is important that international cooperation is ensured by the authorities of the home and host countries. The central responsibility of the authorities is also ensured, as there was a real regulatory deficit in this respect. That means that it was also high time to stop delaying ratification. I think it is equally important that The child is well given the highest importance, making it clear that the interests of other persons must also be taken into account, for example, the rights of biological parents and the intended adoptive parents. It is therefore necessary to strike a balance between the interests of all the persons involved. International adoptions can and should, if they are implemented in accordance with the standards of this Convention, result in children coming from a most unfortunate situation, from hopeless situations of life to a safe environment. But everything is to be done to completely prevent any abuse. For this purpose, this Convention offers a suitable instrument, and that is why my group is supporting in the interests of the children of this Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15689	Mr Schrefel has also been mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15711	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The interest in international adoptions, i.e. adoptions beyond the Austrian border, has increased significantly in recent years. The Government's proposal on today's agenda now regulates the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the field of International Adoption when the Electoral Child and future adoptive parents live in different countries. The interest in adoptions of foreign children is also very great in Austria. Especially in recent years, many children have been adopted specifically from Romania in Austria. However, since Romania has already acceded to and signed the Convention on the Protection of Children as part of the Hague Conference, problems with those host countries, including Austria, which had not yet acceded to this Convention, have always arisen from that date. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you may recall the "help-tv" broadcast with Barbara Stöckl – I think she took place last year – in which such a problem was dealt with. At the time, it was about six cases of Romanian children, for whom the adoptive parents were already known and the children already knew the parents, but the adoption could not be carried out formally. At the time, Foreign Minister and Deputy Chancellor Schüssel personally intervened with the Romanian Foreign Office and managed to solve the problem positively for the children and the adoptive parents. This then-initiative Schüssels led to the recognition and rapid implementation of the need for Austria's accession to the Convention. The Ministry of Justice also responded very quickly as an Austrian central authority. As early as December 1998, a request was submitted to the Council of Ministers, which was submitted in accordance with the Convention on 18 December 1998. ==References== At this point I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Justice and his officials once again for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Convention's stated objective is to improve cooperation in the field of international adoption and to ensure that international adoptions can take place only for the benefit of the child and while respecting his fundamental rights and that adoptions are excluded for the purpose of child trafficking. Cross-border adoptions of children require that their well-being be protected. Children are best protected when their new adoptive parents have the full rights and obligations they need to be able to perform their parents' roles properly. International cooperation between the authorities of the home Member State and the host countries will also be ensured. The local government as a supporter of welfare and youth welfare is designated as the Austrian central authorities with the territorial competence of the respective federal state. The national governments must also ensure that only duly authorised organisations or associations are authorised to adopt them. They must prove their competence to carry out the tasks assigned to them properly. The Committee of Justice therefore has this government proposal at its meeting on 17 November. In March, it was negotiated and fully approved. On the part of my group, I can give the agreement full approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15769	Mrs Haller has also been mentioned. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too recognize the preamble of this convention, in which it is so beautiful that "the child should grow up in happiness, love and understanding to the full and harmonious development of his personality in a family." But do you know what I'd like? . I wish that the protection of children could start at the beginning of the birth of life, that pregnant women could be better helped in distress than before, that they could be better enabled or that one could help them not to have to drift off, and that if it really is not possible to release these children to adoption. [[Abg. Amon: Could or should!]] [[Abg. Amon: Could or should!]] Because I know, and I know again and again how difficult it is for Austrian couples with children's desire to be able to adopt children. There are very long waiting times, and this is certainly one of the reasons which has now led to the fact that the ratification of this Convention is also being committed in Austria, because the first sentence in the cover that begins with the problem is: "The interest in international adoptions (adoption beyond the Austrian borders) has increased in particular in recent years." And on top of that: "This means that there is now a practical need for Austria to ratify the Convention quickly." This is certainly one of the reasons, and I am of course also aware of the fact that this agreement is ratified as soon as it goes, because it really has had a very long lead period. As early as January 1989, the Hague Conference discussed this issue. After long negotiations and intensive preparation of the Preamble it was in the 17th century. Session of the Hague Conference adopted unanimously in May 1993. I think it was really very detailed and intensive to think about it – this is also documented in this Convention – and yet again it was a long way to go before the Convention came to Austria and we decided in Austria to think and advise about the Convention, because it has been in German since 1994. It is a clear wish of the Austrian couples who want children to be able to adopt children, especially if in vitro production is not possible, without success. I believe that we should not be in a position to do so, so of course we will also give our approval to this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15839	Mrs Motter has also been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We too agree to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the field of International Adoption and Declaration of the Republic. Mrs Mertel, I am going in accordance with your remarks, and I would like to save myself for time-consuming reasons to bring repetitions here again. They are perfectly right about the child's well-being. But please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a brief comment – even my previous speaker has already said this: It has taken five years for Austria to sign this Convention. I believe that through this long period of time a number of things have certainly been missed in adoption, which has certainly not served the benefit of many children and their adoptive parents. I hope that we will be able to make this up as soon as possible and that more can really be done for the benefit of children affected. The Convention is now being ratified, but instead of nominating a central authority, we want to make all nine national governments a central authority, although we know that it is one of the objectives of the Convention to install a central authority for each state, either a public or a private body. I think Austria is such a small state that it could afford to set up a central office, for example, a private association in Germany, namely the International Social Service, has been designated as the central authority. We also know, ladies and gentlemen, that the Romanian authorities have spoken out for a central authority. However, this useful objective will be, as in Article 6 para. 1 clearly, not achieved, because, as planned, a central authority is determined to carry out the tasks arising from this Convention, but all nine national governments – ladies and gentlemen, you have heard correctly – are declared a central authority in Austria – and this is really without compelling reason! Ladies and gentlemen! Federalism, yes, but in this case we do not understand why. It may not be the size of our state territory. Nor will there be the danger in the future that a huge international adoption rise will take place, which would not be handled from any point of view. It is also impossible for us to understand why, for reasons of much higher efficiency, a central role is not defined, which could also serve the help of an organisation referred to in Article 9, such as the "Initiative Care Family", whose employees, due to their long-term activity, would certainly be highly qualified to do so. Since 1990, the Association "Initiative Care Family" has been working on a contractual basis, and the employees are the contact persons for the Romanian adoption committee. I believe that such an approach would also be most likely to meet the requirement of Article 35, according to which the competent authorities of the Contracting States should be able to act quickly in the adoption procedure. This is, I believe, not given when nine national governments can cook their soup and perhaps delay it again. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In conclusion, I would like to ask the question: Why was there once again a chance for a meaningful venture? – Mr Minister, I expect you to answer that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15925	The Federal Minister for Justice has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To this end, I would like to ask that in Austria, as a central authority, the nine national governments are called: This corresponds to the Austrian constitutional competence situation because the state governments are the carriers of youth welfare for their federal state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] I am not responsible for a constitutional change, nor am I responsible for having the countries. The central authority, which has also been discussed today, does not have to carry out all the tasks itself. It may also serve other public bodies, such as the youth office, or other private organizations which allow them to do so under national law. The fact that we have passed a certain period of observation until the proposal for ratification, I have justified in the Committee - I would like to repeat this here - that these new provisions are now subject to the traditional international adoptions from the European core countries, so to speak, a certain bureaucracy and should therefore observe the practical implications of the application of this Convention to those countries which ratify it, and that this Convention is also ratified by the countries of origin accordingly. I should like to point out that only the Netherlands and France have been ratified by the well-known European countries, in particular our immediate neighbours Germany, Switzerland and Italy have not yet ratified. I believe, however, that the experience with Romania, even though the procedures we have heard could be done positively in individual cases, has shown that it is useful, in particular with regard to the variety of adoptions from more distant countries of origin, to go the way of this Convention and, in the case of international adoptions from the European neighbouring countries, to buy a certain amount of bureaucracy through this Convention. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e15986	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16010	Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee, all political groups have already agreed to this Hague Convention, as will be the case today. I am in need of just saying something about the problem of why adoptions are becoming more and more important across the state border, and of the argument that it is so difficult to come to an adopted child in Austria because the application periods are so long and the requirements are so large and so on. – This is a fact that really applies. In part, however, it is also due to the fact that this federal principle – as your reply to Mr Motter's comments have already been made – cannot, of course, be removed with an agreement of this kind. And if young people's welfare companies are resident in the respective countries today and the country's competence is defined in this way, then this requires far greater restructuring. Nevertheless, I believe that the National Council has responsibility for this, socially, serious problem, why there is such a great lack of or so great demand for babies that could be adopted in Austria. I believe that it is not just about the horrors of the bureaucracy, but that it is a question of social consciousness. It is incredibly difficult for a woman to overcome, as it were, the obstacles to decision and release her child to adoption. Because that is still subject to a very strong social apprehension. In this respect, there is still a long discussion and a change of attitude in the minds. I believe that the legislator can only make a very small contribution to this. If there are bureaucratic or other obstacles, for example, the absurdity you get to hear again and again, that if you are over 35, you can no longer adopt a child, then... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] – There is no provision on that. Nevertheless, it is practice! I know that. This is no longer in line with today's ideas about when families should be founded and at what age. I do not know whether the Committee on Justice is the committee responsible for this. I believe that there should also be discussions in the Committee on Family Affairs, from the point of view of the mothers concerned, about how barriers could be overcome when it comes to the problem of freeing children into adoption. This is an experience that I have now made, among other things, in relation to the constant demand, when the Hague Convention in Austria will finally enter into force in relation to Romania. Because adopting children abroad is the only way out for many couples to have children. And the improvement of this possibility is not only a short-term objective, but also a task of the House as a longer-term objective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16059	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16081	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few brief comments on the statements made by Mrs Stoisits. There are no barriers in Austria regarding the release of children for adoption or for the sake of the desire for adoption. The problem in Austria is that there are too few children and too many people in demand, and this leads to a need for foreign children, as I would like to say. There is nothing to do with the Austrian legal situation. There is also no limit for the age of adoption among those who accept, even if this is sometimes mistakenly said. Of course, one will rather be those parents who bring with them the optimal conditions, leaving only limited existing children to adopt adoption than couples already advanced age. But if a parent-child ratio is created, then no court will reject it if not particularly stored circumstances are given. The Austrian legal situation itself will not change any of the provisions of this Convention. For the Convention does not alter the substantive right of adoption, if it also provides for certain minimum standards for the benefit of the child, but ensures that adoptions made under the regime of this Convention are also recognised everywhere among the Contracting States. The real problem is that we have too few children in relation to the parents in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16115	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Bures has now been reported to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16139	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too welcome today's ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Children and cooperation in the field of international adoption. Federal Minister! I also believe that the ratification of this Convention – as They have implemented this – in connection with the national regulations, namely, the Austrian adoption law on the one hand, but also in connection with the Convention on Child Law ratified by this House at the beginning of the 1990s. I am also convinced that it is necessary to take very specific international measures, which should be taken in particular to keep in mind the well-being of the child. I have had the impression in the previous speeches that it is more important to take action against the unfulfilled desire for children. I would like to look at this from the other side, so to speak. I am particularly concerned about the fact that mothers from poorer countries of the world do not get into the situation of having to release their children unintentionally to adoption. For I do not want to see children's trafficking being done, others making big money, and women in these countries who are forced out of poverty to remain with their psychological needs and problems. I am very glad that this Convention, even if its ratification in material law does not require concrete measures and amendments, is taking another step in the direction of re-establishing the phenomenon of child trafficking. Because child trafficking is a forced adoption from the perspective of the child. If I see this as a whole in relation to our national rights such as adoption law, I nevertheless find it completely absurd for Mr Haller to discuss this in connection with the time-limit. But obviously no issue is left out to address it again. I would also like to thank Mr Tegischer and Mr Hlavac, who have already submitted a petition in 1997 on the subject of reforms in the right of adoption as a whole, for which the ratification of this Hague Convention is also an essential point. I am pleased that we will ratify it today and here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16183	Mr Grossruck is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16204	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From this agreement, which will be adopted unanimously today, I see in particular two aspects highlight or highlight, namely first of all the importance of the child and second of all the importance of the family. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that even by such a good law, abuse and crime cannot be prevented. But they can be rigorously punished with the help of the law, and the law can form and influence public opinion, bring about a change of attitude or generally raise sensitivity. We all know that laws are as good as they are being executed, and only work if there are punishments. We have recently adopted the anti-personnel law, also as a sign that the international community will join forces to prevent children from falling victim to these killer instruments. But we know that this will continue to happen. We cannot prevent it, but we can make opinions and confirm our determination by making a decision. However, it is also a question of the evasion of the international trade in children and the remorse of the criminal children's dealers to whom the craft is to be laid. Ladies and gentlemen! They all know how incredible it is, what breaks children around the world and what is done to them: Child trafficking, child labour, child prostitution. And the fact that children are used as organ donors, especially in developing countries of the Third World, is particularly gratifying – we have heard it this week via the media too. In some countries children are kept as spare parts bearings for organs, they are "cut out" like a used car. If we hear, accept or know this, then we must fight it with all our means! We must create the conditions, create opinions and raise awareness in order to prevent these serious crimes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A small but important step in this direction is today the decision on the Convention on international adoption. This is a commitment to the importance of the child. Another point for me, however, is the importance of the family, which is also clearly and clearly expressed in this Convention. The realization that the child should grow up to the full and harmonious development of his personality in a family and surrounded by happiness and love and understanding has already been quoted. The condition on which a child is released for adoption is that it should only come into such a family. And the international adoption can offer the advantage of finding and living in a permanent family for a child for whom no suitable family can be found in his home country. – This too is an essential commitment to the idea of family as we have it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have put in place many family policies. The tax reform, which will be decided and will enter into force from the year 2000, will, for example, relieve a family with three children by a total of 30 000 S net a year. This is a net relief in the amount of a one and a half month salary of a normal earner! The tax reduction is also a service with which we make a confession to the family! Mrs Haller also mentioned in vitro fertilization, artificial fertilization. The Minister said earlier that there are many childless couples in Austria who want to adopt children, but there are too few domestic children. – In this way too, we could put in place measures that will enable those who cannot have children in a natural way to meet their children’s wishes with the help of medicine. We could force that! And there are already applications that this should be possible for a health certificate. This too would be a measure towards child-friendliness for those who want children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party agree with this Convention of course and gladly. The decision-making of this agreement is a clear yes to the child in general, a clear yes to the personality of the children in particular, a clear yes to the family association in which children are to grow up, and a clear yes to the values of the family, as represented by the Austrian People's Party, is represented and always represented!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16274	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty, and the declaration of the Republic of Austria in 1571 of the Supplements. If you want to grant this approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is one-bright the case. The present State Treaty was thus approved. 12. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1589 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the bankruptcy order, the compensation system and the insolvency-insurance-law (Insolvency administrator-remuneration-Law – IVEG) (1680 of the supplements) 13. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1588 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Company Book Act (1679 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16339	I now call on Agenda items 12 and 13 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Krüger was the first speaker to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16366	Mr President. Federal Minister! On the two government templates in the near future, first as an insolvency administrator's remuneration law: The intention of the legislator to create a uniform wage for mass administrators and compensation administrators is to be welcomed fully. The particular decisions of the individual national courts in their function as insolvency courts have led to great injustices in the remuneration of mass administrators resulting from the fact that it depended on, in whose explosives or in which explosives it came into insolvency and where insolvency was to be administered. This new regulation should be fully supported. However, with regard to the claims of a privileged creditor protection association, criticism must be filed in the event of the representation of entitled persons: This is the provision of § 13c of the Government template which has already been discussed in the Committee. Although this provision is formulated abstractly, it depends specifically on the new insolvency protection association for workers. This provision has only been ordered by the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB. The purpose of this provision is that this new association, which, like the other creditors' associations, is paid according to a quota received by the mass administrator or the compensation manager, will also be paid in the procedure for the notification of service claims before the Federal Office for Social Affairs and the Disabled. This creditor protection association is expected to receive 750 S per registered claim. We figured this out. It comes when you compare this with the lawyer's rate, to a higher rate for the association than for lawyers in areas up to 250 000 p. – that's one. Secondly, the truth is that institutions that were actually set up to represent their members free of charge receive a reward through the back door. This is nothing more than the creation of a common profit centre for the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB, and then it is obvious that this profit centre will be provided after economic considerations, namely in the case of the Fund. - That's against it! Now, very briefly, to the Federal Act, which amends the company book law. We have already adopted and are now taking a negative attitude in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I call you two arguments against the too rapid deletion of companies which, despite being asked, do not submit the company's accounts twice in a row. On the one hand, from the company's point of view, it's just too fast. The obligation to submit the annual accounts is a new obligation not only for medium and large companies but also for small companies, even for companies which have a mere role to play. This is a new legal obligation for the managing directors, which is partly unpleasant because it costs money through the application. A further request from Mr Haigermoser will be made. So if the person responsible forgets to present the annual accounts twice, then the company is – schwuppdiwupp! - Out of the company's book. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! ……]] That can't be so fast! This is certainly not reasonable for the company concerned. The second argument: As far as the protection of creditors is concerned, this is quite easy to reject, because this provision can also be misused, by companies that want to save themselves an expensive winding-up procedure. We know that we need a resolution decision, a winding-up procedure and a liquidation decision for liquidation. The Edict obligation – that is, the obligation to publish – is a very complex history. Many companies will now rely on this provision, provoke the use case and therefore be quickly deleted. That too is not in the sense of the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16402	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16423	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the occasion of the insolvency innovation, we have initiated the fact that the rules on mass remuneration which have been in force until now or to this day are more transparent and, above all, uniformly regulated throughout Austria. I was also concerned with the suggestion to this new law that the masses should be strengthened and in insolvency proceedings not only sought that the mass administrators be adequately rewarded and then nothing left for the masses. It has also been shown in the preparation for this novel that there are serious differences throughout Austria. In part, judges have privileged their remuneration to the mass administrators. These differences throughout Austria have now been eliminated and a uniform and at the same time transparent line has been created, which – I am particularly pleased – has been designed in a performance-oriented way. There will be a regular reward, and I would like to say from here that the legislator imagines that this standard wage is actually going to be the rule, and that it is only in very exceptional cases that there will be surcharges and discounts, especially if it is really shown that the mass manager is particularly intensively seeking to improve the volume of mass, or in other cases, if the mass manager is not really profitable. We have also made an amendment to the Government's proposal in the Committee by making it clear that it seems to us to be important if special mass exploitation is better rewarded if it is freely granted and not only done through the court. That is to say, the judicial recovery has so far led to a lower reward than the other types of recovery. I would like to make it clear here that this can only apply and only if the mass manager actually acquires earnings for the exploitation of special masses. So, if the special-mass beneficiary comes to mind – just think of the pledge right of a bank registered in the ground book! – for example, a bank, even trying to recover and the mass administrator has no effort at all, then of course he should not get this higher reward. Therefore, the rules on surcharges and discounts apply as well. In the run-up to the Committee's deliberations and today's decisions, the creditor protection associations have, of course, also intervened particularly intensively, because they are also affected by the new regulation. That is, even what creditor protection associations are getting privileged at the expense of the masses, is now uniformly regulated throughout Austria and subject to a uniform view. It wasn't like that so far. This means that creditor protection associations in certain district councils may have been particularly favourable and in others less favourable. We have also agreed on 20 percent of the mass management remuneration as a basis of assessment for creditor protection associations. I know that, in principle, one can discuss whether such an association should at all be given privileged money from the masses if, anyway, it requires a fee from the creditors. However, we consider it to be a support from the Court for greater efficiency in the insolvency proceedings if creditor protection organisations seek to ensure that, in the insolvency proceedings, there is a uniform form of opinion regarding all the conflicting interests of creditors. That is why it was also natural for us to try to ensure that the remuneration of creditors' associations is as fair as possible. Since both the main groups which have intervened massively with us politicians are very dissatisfied with the legislation and have asserted conflicting interests, the present law in the middle found a compromise with which both groups are satisfied, I believe that we can decide this compromise as adequate. I think it is just that a fixed amount will be given to creditor protection associations in advance and that the additional amounts will be allocated per capita. The fact that we have not been able to decide to pay the creditor protection associations at the level of their claims has to do with the fact that the large claims in a bankruptcy are not supposed to exceed the small medium-sized suppliers so to speak. In addition, the thought of creditor protection organisations is not the enforcement of the individual claim, but the financing of a basic structure so that these associations can carry out their work for the benefit of the courts and for the benefit of the masses as a whole. As far as the company's book law is concerned, it is my concern to point out that we no longer have modern standards with regard to the publicity of the balance sheets. It is undisputed that we confess to the publicity that the deposit of balance sheets is a positive instrument. But it is not really to be seen why small businesses, i.e. small GmbHs, have to turn an advertisement on it, nor in the "Wiener Zeitung", which is not really read in the federal states. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There is today a motion for a resolution from us!]] It is also not practical to believe that someone will pick up these ads on the side of the page and then start to browse at some point to find out if the company concerned wants to know whether the balance sheet is stored – yes or no – since sometime it has been advertised. Unfortunately, we are also bound by EU law, which still prescribes the publication in a printing medium. I would therefore ask the Minister to press ahead with this at EU level with the realization that our electronic registers, such as the company book, developed in Austria, guarantee the publicity we need in order to protect creditors. If the EU joins us on this issue of our position, we would have to debureautize quickly and relieve businesses of costs. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If the ÖVP comes to the government, it will do everything!]] I believe that both laws, both the company's book laws and the insolvency manager's remuneration law are a milestone on the way to an efficient settlement in economic life, and I am very pleased that an ÖVP initiative has come to a good conclusion here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ms. Fekter is the first "government opposition speaker"!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16485	Furthermore, Mr Mag. Mag. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16507	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter, you will not be surprised: For a milestone, we do not consider what is happening here, especially in relation to the company's book. In view of the large number of companies whose inevitability is evident, however, it is worth trying to clean up here and thus restore clarity. It has been noted in the Committee that it will also be difficult to do so. It would therefore be reasonable to ask, in the future, how, for example, such cases are shown by the Bar in the context of the Perception Report in order to check whether the objections made in the Committee were justified. All in all, however, we will agree to the amendment to the company book law, which will be voted on here today. With regard to the insolvency administrator's remuneration law, we believe that the political succus is another one. There is a new privileged creditor association. One has become involved within the politically responsible friends, how much of the volume of this one association should be. The fact that he is initiated by the Chamber of Workers and ÖGB makes us – I say – suspect where the special pressure came from. It was said at the outset that there will not be so much intervention in the competitive relationship of the existing two associations. However, this has already happened in our view with this draft. That is why we will also reject this draft, although I agree with you that there is a need for a uniform basis of remuneration. However, we believe that the way in which this has been implemented in concrete terms is too much involved in the competitive situation and therefore do not consider this draft to be worthy of support. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16540	Mr Pendl is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer to the federal law which amends the company book law. The present draft law on a change to the company's book law is a timely step towards improving quality and improving efficiency. A large number of companies are registered with the company's book courts and tax authorities, whose indebtedness is evident and to which delivery is not possible. This results in an unnecessaryly high amount of work. By recasting the Amtslöschungsgesetz and transferring it into the Company Book Act, the official cancellation of non-profit societies is to be made more efficient and at the same time a certain legal adjustment is achieved. Since the law governing the dissolution and cancellation of societies and cooperatives dates back to October 1934, i.e. a German law, and was introduced in Austria in 1938, the step towards a new regime is essential. At this point, it should also be noted that other laws of this time are in force and need to be adapted and revised today. Before the cancellation, the representatives of interest and the tax authority responsible for the company's registered office shall be heard. The courts and tax authorities shall each other be required to provide information necessary for the implementation of this federal law. If, after the deletion, the existence of assets subject to the distribution becomes apparent, the settlement shall take place, with the controllers being appointed by the court at the request of a party. As the need for administrative simplification, an increase in efficiency, and also the need for legibility of laws are repeatedly highlighted, this federal law is an important contribution to the achievement of the objectives I have quoted. In all the confessions to the modern design of the company's book, taking into account the technical development, the use of modern media such as the Internet, our main objective cannot be the weakening of the Vienna newspaper, as it was apparent at the last committee meeting. Similarly, the construction of double structures does not make sense. Furthermore, it would be urgent to consider whether the "Wiener Zeitung" cannot offer this service cheaper. I should like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to examine and deal with this subject in terms of substance and content, and I am convinced that we can carry out this problem together. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, very much, Mr Federal Minister, for the work done by your officials. We from the Socialist Group very much agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16611	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16632	Estimated Minister of State! Mr President. The vote of the Greens is exactly the opposite to that of the Liberals. We will therefore give our consent to the Insolvency Manager Remuneration Act, because I do not share the concerns expressed here by Mr Barmüller – he has already formulated them in the Committee – because I consider this law to be a solution, because of what I could see from the review procedure, and above all because of the interventions which have come from the credit protection associations and which have also been addressed to us in writing. I will not vote in favour of the company book law, and if the colleagues of the Green Group still come from it. The long discussion in the Committee has also not convinced me that it is a sensible measure to simply – and I say it a little popular now – issue a penalty for the inadequate presentation of balance sheets. As such, I still understand this law, Mr Federal Minister, even if you are infidelatingly shaking your head. If a capital company has no assets, it will be deleted by its own initiative. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: If she has no wealth?]] - If it has no wealth! If a capital company lays incomplete balance sheets twice in spite of Urgenz, it will also be erased! I really don't understand that, Minister of State. For this smells like a penalty for those who do not comply with it. I have not yet found a plausible explanation for this provision, except for the fact that this is, of course, a rationalization and cost-saving measure, as can be read in the cover. I wonder, How does this measure serve the interests of legal protection? – I do not see that, and therefore, Federal Minister, I am sorry. I think that in a sense it is simply a burden of proof that I consider unacceptable, and therefore I will not give my consent to the company book law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16668	The Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Michalek has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16689	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The present insolvency management remuneration law is the last step in a gradual renewal of insolvency rights in recent years, which began with the introduction of the private bankruptcy by the bankruptcy novels in 1993 and continued with the development of company insolvency rights through the insolvency law laws 1994 and 1997. The aim of the new regulation is to bring it together again to create an Austrian-wide uniform, performance-oriented remuneration of insolvency administrators and privileged creditor protection associations. It should be transparent and comprehensible for all parties involved, i.e. courts, insolvency administrators, creditors' associations, but above all for creditors. The new regulation builds on the principles of previous case law. The mass manager is expected to receive a degressive percentage of recovery income in the bankruptcy or compensation requirement. In setting the percentages and the degression levels, an attempt was made to find a mean between the remunerations granted by the individual courts. In special exceptional cases, taking into account the circumstances of this individual case, a deviation may be made from the rule remuneration on the basis of certain criteria up and down. These principles should also apply to the reward of creditors' associations and their activities, not as representatives of creditors, but to those activities they provide in the interests of all creditors and in support of the court. You will receive a percentage of the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, as is the practice so far. In determining these percentages and in the division among creditor protection associations, we have taken a route of funding between the courts' partly quite different calculations and distribution methods. This is also a mediating solution between the models that are preferred by the two currently existing privileged creditor protection associations. With the rules on the remuneration of insolvency managers and the reward of creditor protection associations, we enter new land. The Federal Ministry of Justice will therefore pay particular attention to the development of the implementation of the new right. As to the claims of a privileged creditor protection association in the representation of entitled persons according to the insolvency insolvency insurance law falling within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, from the point of view of my department, I would just like to point out that the payments in question do not go at the expense of bankruptcy or compensation. The revision and updating of the Amtlöschungsgesetz in 1934 on the occasion of its integration into the Company Book Act takes into account the fact that in the Austrian company book courts a variety – Mrs Stoisits, I emphasize: a variety! – are registered by companies, especially companies with limited liability, which are ineffective and largely no longer exist in de facto at all. Not least because of the difficulties in the delivery of judicial documents, this causes great unnecessary effort, and the deletion of such companies is thus not only a question of the reliability and clarity of the company's book in the interests of users, but also a question of labour economy and the efficiency of judicial activity. The time for our project is favourable in so far as, I admit, the disclosure obligations extended by the EU Company Law Change Act for capital companies have become so to speak, in the course of the previous year. The qualified non-fulfilment of the resulting obligations will be the point of departure of such companies, in so far as they do not have obvious assets, without too much effort. The fears expressed by you, but also by Mr Krüger, that the deletion could be done too quickly, that there could be no ineffective societies "overrun" as well as the erasure process, I do not share at all, and I do not think they are a reason for rejecting this law. It is not true that the removal of a mere two-year inaction, a failure to comply with the rules by the company or an inaction of the court. According to Article 283 et seq. of the Commercial Code, the Court of First Instance does not simply accept the non-subsidy of the annual accounts, but must initiate and operate the forced criminal proceedings against society there, and in this context it will also receive further knowledge of the actual circumstances of the company. According to § 18 of the Company Book Act, the court must also try to get in touch with the company and draw attention to the possible cancellations before it intervenes in its company book rights. Furthermore, according to the new § 40 para. 2 Company book law to deal with the relevant representation of interest and the tax authority, and they will also say that the company is not mature if there are assets there. Finally, it is – and this is the most important thing – if there is evidence of a property – that can also result from an incompletely presented annual report, ladies and gentlemen, from the outset not to initiate the erasure procedure. All of this, I believe, is sufficient to ensure that only the so-called cartels, which in fact no longer have any operational activity and have no assets, will be affected by the erasure procedure. If, in fact, a non-profit society is affected, it can easily be re-entered, especially since it has not ceased to exist due to the deletion, but is only dissolved. All in all, I believe that the redefinition of the former Amtslöschungsgesetz will help to increase the transparency and clarity of the Austrian company's book and that we will also make a small contribution to the legalisation of the law, which is also to be welcomed with regard to the major activities of legalisation. Let me say a few words about the resolution, which is in the opposite context of the debate. The request made to me constitutes a confirmation and substantial support of our efforts in this regard. For example, a group of experts, in close cooperation with the Board of Economic Trustees, is working on a project to enable the electronic transmission of annual accounts to the company's book. The electronic submission to the Court of First Instance would, of course, significantly facilitate the electronic publication of the relevant data with significant savings for the undertakings concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, the work will be completed by the end of the year. In addition, I would like to mention that our efforts to adapt the EU's publicity directive to the new technical possibilities of positive inclusion in the European Union at expert level can be expected to ensure that our ideas, with which Austria has a certain pioneering role, can be achieved in the foreseeable future. The registration of the submission of the annual accounts no longer needs to be published, because this can also be consulted electronically in the base book. In this sense, I hope that I will be able to report to the House in the foreseeable future on positive results within the meaning of the resolution. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16772	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Dr. Drinkl has now been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16797	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the company's book law concerns the cancellation of obvious indebtedness with the aim of increasing the reliability of the company's book accordingly. This has already been discussed several times today. This is obviously not a problem in those cases where existing disposal statistics are included in the Austrian company book law, as is the case with this novelle, which is available today for decision-making. The inclusion of the refutable presumption that the non-procedure of business accounts makes reference to ineligibility is discussed. Mrs Stoisits and Mr Krüger, I do not see your problem, just as the Federal Minister has just carried out here. There are so many protective mechanisms for the registered company that unprepared cancellation is virtually impossible to think. The call for the balance sheet to be presented is twice and the representatives of interest are used. I would also like to make a public statement on how this happens: The representation of interests has the duty to contact in such cases, as well as the company book. If that does not work, it is based on evidence, and only then will a report be written that there is the company or not. If the company actually still has assets, it is not possible to keep the assets in secret, but it is obvious within the framework of this procedure. I do not think it should be assumed that anyone makes a survey or a report in such a way that he shows the untruth or sloppyness. In my opinion, it is not possible, by the procedure, to remove it without finding that there is indeed a lack of wealth. That is to say, the two-time non-existence of the balance sheet is the starting point of a procedure, but cannot serve as the sole reason for the deletion. I believe that this has now come to light from many speeches, and I also see the possibility of dispersing the concerns that still exist, for example, on the part of the Green Group. I am pleased that the Federal Minister has today made a statement on the fact that in future the publication in the Vienna newspaper will be done together with the EU on electronic media. At the moment, it is really the case that costs arise for bureaucracy for which businesses do not understand. Finally, this publication only serves to provide information to information companies and creditors' associations. Another, more effective and efficient way of taking account of this need should be created. We are really concerned with debureaucratisation and also with cost relief in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are indeed entering new territory in Austria with the Insolvency Manager's Remuneration Act, and we are very proud that this novelle is very much in line with the initiative of our Judge Maria Fekter. We are concerned with improving the situation of creditors, but also with strengthening the mass, and this can only be achieved if you can order experienced and initiative mass managers who are also rewarded accordingly. What we particularly like is the obligation of the mass administrator to make a preview so that the steps he will take must also be presented to the public accordingly. This serves for transparency: transparency for the judge in terms of what the mass administrator is actually doing, but also transparency for the creditors, who, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, often did not know why, in the end, nothing has been distributed, but the mass administrator has received a considerable fee. Overall, I believe, the proposal is well suited to eliminate the previously unsatisfactory situation as regards the remuneration of mass managers and to achieve a higher efficiency of insolvency proceedings. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16855	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16876	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! Mr Drinkl has already described the whole story of the passing of the law in the field of mass administrators. In principle, this measure is also welcomed and supported by the liberals. This includes clear rules. My previous speaker, Dr. Krüger, has already said that. Under the cover of the creditor protection, however, what happens in Austria is happening again and again. The ÖVP is then and again caught, and the Minister has also said this indirectly in his remarks. I would like to refer in particular to the establishment of the Third Association of Trustees, which, of course, has been set up on the part of the socialist side of this government. Once again, one is in the process of installing authorities that are aware of the interests. The fact that this is, of course, at the expense of the legal professions in the representation of clients in courts is no longer taken care of by the Socialists in this House at all. - But be it as it may be. Now, of course, we also need to consider financing this third association of creditors. But that the ÖVP of the procedure chosen here is still in agreement, is quite strange, for the following thing has happened: Indeed, it is workers' claims in insolvency proceedings that are subject to privileged claims, whose owners will never have to accept the total loss or even receive a small quota of their claims, but which will be covered at least up to the maximum basis of assessment at 100 percent. The fact that the consultation and the application for a claim are also carried out by this third association of creditors may still have its accuracy and, on the other hand, there may be nothing to be objected to, at least if one sees it from the point of view of the socialist government party, because of the vehement pressure exerted by this side. The fact that this association of creditors has not been established in accordance with any tendering procedure or in accordance with any other requirement and that, only in the case of his/her situation, there is a great deal of annoyance. But that the remuneration of this legally-friendly representation is then paid in court at a flat rate of 890 S in total – 750 S plus sales tax, paid off on a flat-rate basis – which in the estimated 28 000 cases per year results in a pot of around 25 million schilling annually, and is expected to come from the insolvency insurance fund is incomprehensible! This means, apart from the fact that privileged claims already prevail, that employers, in other words, companies, pay the legally-friendly representation. Mr Minister, how easy it is to come It does not come out of responsibility if you claim from the government bank today that this remuneration does not have a budgetary impact on the mass, and it does not cost essentially any budget either. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: With regard to the mass!]] So you are actually on the run from responsibility! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is true that it is not a burden on the masses, but it is, in essence, the general public of employers, the entrepreneurs who feed on this fund. Of course, it does not affect the individual insolvent companies, but it affects the general public, and this – that is, please, the horrendous – is with privileged demands. That's not to be seen anymore. I therefore believe that, if there are already privileged demands, it is very likely that the legal representation from this safe can also be paid that one can think in this direction. But the fact that there is still a third party, which is not involved, namely the group of entrepreneurs, is not transparent and does not conform to what we imagine to be the principle of freedom. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that's where the ÖVP has been pulled over the table. Although Mrs Fekter has negotiated the law, she has not observed it or has probably carried out any exchange business again. That can be quite the case. We liberals will, in any case, reject these provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16924	Mr Heinzl is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16945	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The government template, which amends the bankruptcy order, the compensation system and the insolvency-insurance law, contains some non-essential innovations that I would like to comment on briefly here. The remuneration rules for insolvency managers and privileged creditor protection associations have so far been too inadvertent and have in practice led to an uneven and non-transparent remuneration system. This genuine maladministration is also made clear by the fact that the pay practice is often differentiated from court to court, and that it is not possible to ensure clarity or to make the orientation of the service provided comprehensible. High house! The present draft law provides for transparency and performance incentives, first of all through a regular remuneration, which is a certain percentage of the recovery income or the compensation requirement achieved, second, by binding the judicial discretion on performance criteria and thirdly by the cost estimate obligation of the mass manager in carrying out business. Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, due to the degressive design of the higher-level wage-remuneration extremity, as has been done in the case of large insolvencies, and in the lower area, an under-covery of the expenditure associated with the activity is to be avoided. It should also be noted that, to date, the benefits provided for the general public have not been assessed at all in connection with workers. In this context, however, there is an above average labour force, which is the key to the possibility of lasting or temporary company continuation for better mass exploitation. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the event of insolvency, the interests of the employees should be better and more efficient in any case. This will certainly guarantee the insolvency protection association of workers in the future. High house! In this regard, I would like to stress that the reward to be granted to the privileged creditor protection associations is not a charge for representation measures for individual creditors, but is solely intended to cover the costs incurred by creditors' associations in the context of the representation of the common interests of creditors. Federal Minister! Hopefully, the proposal presented by your ministry regarding the calculation of the reward for the privileged creditor protection organisations is also fair and not, as has been reported with numerous interventions, unfair. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Another innovation based on this government template is the extension of the mass administrator's reporting obligation. So far, damage has often been caused by the need to make decisions on closure or continuation of the insolvency without any comprehensible economic analysis. The new regulation now obliges the mass administrator to demonstrate clearly its recommendations for the appropriate economic strategy, with an explicit reference to the market, enterprise and financial situation. This significantly increases the possibilities of making business-based decisions. High house! Finally, I would like to say that we are giving our support to social democrats of this government template, especially, as I discussed earlier, to the creation of an Austrian-wide and transparent remuneration system for privileged creditors' associations and insolvency managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e16995	Mr Haigermoser is also on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17029	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Before that, I agree to formulate the request for separate vote concerning Article I Z 6 bankruptcy rules, Article II Z 6 compensation regulations and Article III Z 6 insolvency insurance law. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly: I am in any doubt always very careful about the jubilation of Mrs. Fekter's messages, because Mr. Fekter usually sells the economy on the altar of the socialist coalition – except for self-interest. She'll be by her hand very quickly when she brings it in. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I've never had an occasion in insolvency law!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The most dangerous of socialist laws is usually the small print. This is like an insurance contract. There must be a lot of care that the economy or others will not have to pay at some point. So it is also in the case of cost reliefs that you have ordered today, or in the case of laws through which you created costs and which you also rejoiced at first, but to which you now again demand savings, free of the motto of Nestroy: Who is stronger: i’ or i’? – So, the first pragmatized government opposition speaker, you have played inappropriately today, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In contrast to you: I am able to learn! That bothers you very much!]] We want to make it easier for you to carry out a discharge – even when it comes to so-called small amounts – for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is about the costs for companies that currently have to pay a fee when they deposit the balance sheet. Then there is a pre-order in the house, which is 2 000 s at a small GmbH, although the interest that the balance sheet is presented and made clear is actually on the public side, ladies and gentlemen! As I said, Companies currently have to bear the relevant court fees and publication costs, regardless of whether registration is in their own interest or whether companies, such as in the case of publication of the balance sheet, are obliged to publish certain publications in the interest of the public. We therefore give you the opportunity to accept Mrs Fekter's motion for a resolution as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very good!]] So we want to work neutrally here and, as has been said, open up opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to be relieved of costs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not yet EU-compliant!]] This is where you can make and vote with the silk of revelation today. It will certainly be good for small and medium-sized people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17138	Next, Mrs Mag. Gisela Worm in the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17159	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If we are talking today about the insolvency administrator's remuneration law, it is important to me as a social democrat to predict that we are talking here about a professional group that is not necessarily on the ground of hunger. Mass administrators are mostly highly respected, well-known personalities. That is why I am very pleased that, by a large majority, we will once again eliminate an uneven level of Austrian legislation and provide a good service to justice and equality. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: As a lawyer, I noticed how you voted to eliminate injustices!]] – Listening Please, Dr. Graf! We have already adopted a resolution in this House in 1997 calling on the Federal Minister for Justice to present a draft law which uniformly reorganises the remuneration of the mass administrator, the compensation administrator and the privileged creditor protection associations for their activities in the insolvency proceedings for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A privilege is already...!]] The background to this resolution was that the national courts have defined the remuneration of the mass administrators in a completely different way. So I was able to hear from the Committee on Justice – Dr. Krüger brought it in – that until now, when he had a lot of bad luck, it could happen that up to a third of him looked out less of pay than for a colleague when the case was to be dealt with in a neighbouring district and therefore a more favourable judicial arrangement was applied. This was an injustice that was no longer to be maintained, and I am glad that it is eliminated by this law. With this law, more justice for the almost unknown group of mass administrators will be helped to break through. High house! However, there is another group in Austria, and it is the majority in that country, which has been receiving the same pay for a third of the same benefit for a year and day. These are the women! No motion for a resolution, no law, no measure has so far been able to ensure that this rabid injustice is finally removed from the world. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who's in the government?]] Do the general public have a bigger lobby, a stronger lobby than the women? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If the SPÖ government comes, she'll put it through!]] I would like to say that I am glad that Austria is taking more justice in the remuneration of the mass administrators, since in this law which is now almost socialist – it is still in place this year with 1. May in force – a well-dominated minimum wage on the one hand – Mr Haigermoser mentioned this already – and a degression regime on the other. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: When the Socialists come to the government, they do it!]] – Listen; that's well worked out! Thus, no mass manager can earn too much, but no one can earn too much. This is obviously not wrong for you either, they agree to the first part, the gentlemen of the "F". Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That is exactly what I would like for the women in this state to see! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now go back to the law and the difficulty of the just wage. It is really not always easy to define which activities and tasks are comparable, especially if, as with this professional group, almost every case, better said, almost every insolvency is something different and therefore different. The present draft shows that a working group and ministerial officials have given a great deal of thought to how to solve this problem justly. I think that after a certain period of observation, practice will show whether adjustments are necessary. I personally do not believe in this, especially since the courts may differ in individual cases from the rule remuneration. Mr President. High house! Minister! I will gladly give my consent to this law, because for mass and compensation managers it is the principle "Equal pay for equal work" is realized and thereby brings justice to mass administrators. I hope and continue to fight that women will soon receive equal pay for equal work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to the justice for the mass administrators, I demand justice for women.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17285	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1680 of the supplements. Mr Graf has asked for a separate vote to this effect. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. I shall therefore vote, in accordance with the request for a separate vote, on the Z 6 in Article I, Article II and Article III, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval at third reading to the proposal for a corresponding sign. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1588 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. Next, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1679. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. This resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 166.) Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Haigermoser and comrades on the financial discharge of businesses in the case of company book entries and publications in the interest of the public. This request has been properly filed and has therefore been negotiated. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Haigermoser, for a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Nothing for the businessmen!]] 14. Point report of the Financial Committee on the Government template (1614 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Banking Act, the Securities Supervision Act, the Deposit Act and the Capital Market Act (1672 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17343	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Firlinger with a voluntary speaking time of 5 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's good!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17372	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Securities Supervisory Act has now experienced the second revision in a period of only one and a half years. I would like to say that in this short period two novels, i.e. three laws, are an expression of a lack of law. In the debate, I think, no one will say that the work on the improvements that have been included in this law has only been very laborious and sluggish. I would like to say to the novelle itself that there are both positive and negative aspects to be taken into account and worthy of. A positive aspect is certainly that the transposition of the EU investor protection directive into national law has taken place. It should also be noted that the concession procedure was facilitated by the BWA in some areas. However, these points have been disputed for a three-quarters of a year, in particular on the last point, and the result is still not satisfactory. I would like to get to the negative points. The negative is clearly related to the Securities Supervisory Act. It has been negotiated for a three-quarters period, Mr President, that the examination of compliance with the Welfare Directive is not only reserved for economic agents, but also for lawyers, business consultants and ordinary tax advisors to examine this respect. It has been negotiated for a long time, and the cementing of the status quo has come out. That is therefore not satisfactory. Second point: There are no derogations for the access to the profession of asset advisors, justified exceptions, so that the BWA can in individual cases also verify whether a debt is present. This applies to those cases where a person has been denied professional training. Third point: Even more serious is the fact that there has been discrimination against asset advisors. I think this is very unfortunate and also worrying, because asset advisors must make a property liability insurance in order to obtain a concession at all. In spite of this, the asset advisors have now been prevented from being part of a compensation fund and have to make advertising practical against themselves in their business papers. Mr President, that is probably not possible. I therefore cannot befriend the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection at all because it has been kept very soft and toothless. I would like to stress that in this legislative process the role of SPÖ was quite constructive. Mr Kaufmann, in particular, has noted that the radical path is not the target, and has made a correspondingly moderate request for legislative change. On the other hand, the role of the ÖVP and its top representatives Günter was more than poor in the Committee and also in the negotiations. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I am surprised that you can still go, because you can only wonder how kneely you have acted in relation to the representation of the money, credit and insurance section. You shouldn't be able to go anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Stumblingly, he always gives up on the stronger part that he – and so it is in this case, as has been so often – always gives up the section on money, credit and insurance, and always does what these rulers want. In concrete terms it is about what a master wants to do, namely Mr Syndikus in the Chamber. That's going to be done, and all the others stay on the track. This has not happened for the first time, so I really have to ask myself whether the property consultants from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce still feel properly represented. I question this and make a big question mark behind it, because I doubt it now. That is why we will have to talk thoroughly about this case. It will lead to a general debate on the chamber, because it cannot be said that the asset consultants set up in the General Group of Commerce are those who pay the largest share of the contributions, but at the same time make up the group over which one passes with the broom and whose wishes are not taken into account. Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. To act so miserablely and to kneel as sadly as you have shown it in the last few weeks is really not enough for me! In addition, we will probably have to optimize this process. Ladies and gentlemen! The third Novelle of the WAG is waiting for itself. It will be necessary because we are not yet where we should actually be. I therefore call on all concerned to finally create a fair and just securities supervisory law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17434	Mr Dr. Stummvoll referred to an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to the time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17458	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Firlinger has here claimed from the speaker's desk that in my capacity as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce in the negotiations on this law, I would have yielded to the pressure of the Money and Credit Section and would therefore not have been able to achieve a balance of interests in the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Can I prove!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I can prove that!]] It is true, rather, that with regard to the industrial property consultants represented in the Section for Industry, the Section on Commerce has not even approached me with the request and concern that a balance of interest be made between the two sections. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's not true!]] Mr Firlinger! I'll invite you to: If you have evidence, put it on the table!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17533	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17555	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The present amendment to the Banking Act is essentially an adaptation to an EU directive which corresponds to the system of deposit protection and investor compensation. This transforms this system. Investments of up to 20 000 euros are thus secured in the event of insolvency. Some aspects of consumer protection are thus taken into account. It has also been possible, from the government template, to introduce a number of additional elements into the law, particularly as regards the period to which a security device must be claimed and until which a notification is required. This period has been extended from 5 months to 1 year. It also provides for an improved obligation to provide information for consumers in the field of security facilities. This information on protective devices must be provided in the warehouse. It is also necessary to provide written information concerning the institution which takes over this protective device, the liability and scope of the cover. Furthermore, we still wish – but this can be realized in the next novel – that these elements also become contractual content and are not only subject to suspension. I think that this could create a further substantial improvement. The Securities Supervisory Act is also essentially an adaptation to EU standards with regard to collateral. Significant improvements are being made to small asset advisors. For the small asset advisors, it is planned to waive the tested balance sheet. It is no longer necessary to demonstrate the main profession of main activity. Furthermore, the time limit for obtaining the commercial right is extended. I believe that this will be a major step forward. As Mr Firlinger has already addressed the topic of consumer protection – asset consultants, I would like to say the following: From our point of view, the main problem is not the small asset consultants, but the large structural distributions that are very often working on the edge of the legality or even beyond the edge of the legality. The small asset consultants and consumer protectionists are sitting in a common boat, and it must be our common concern that structural distributions do not work with people who do not have a concession and would not be able to obtain a concession at all. This leads, on the one hand, to a competition that the small asset advisors rightly feel is unfair, and it is also harmful from the point of view of consumer protection. We have tried to discuss this, and this has resulted in an amendment which does not go as far as we have discussed in the Committee's deliberations, but which is a very big step in the right direction. In principle, it is a question of being irrelevant to third parties whether the person acting for a large service undertaking is an employee or a worker, because in principle, the legal status of a worker's treatment is the same. I can make this amendment and read it: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the amendment, and I am seeking agreement on it. One last word to the Securities Supervisory Act: I have taken a press article, Mr Firlinger, that you want to set up your own chamber for this area. Obviously, you too know very slowly that the representation of interests in the form of chambers is also a very efficient and good instrument across Europe. Many colleagues in your industry also contact us. I am really pleased that you too recognize the Chamber as an efficient instrument of representation of interests. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17667	The amendment tabled by Mr Magistrate. Kaufmann, together with Mr Dr. Stummvoll, is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17691	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Kaufmann's impressive reading – he has not been stumbled, I have read; my compliment on that! – I would like to make a brief statement from the Liberals. We have understood in the club that we no longer agree to retroactive laws. – The report of the Financial Committee reads as follows: "In a timely manner, it should be noted that as a date for the implementation of Directive 97/9/EC of the 26th Directive On September 26, 1998, although it requires the earliest possible entry into force, the applicability to matters arising from the 26th anniversary of the European Union is required. It was implemented in September 1998, but is guaranteed in the law." Here you note in the Committee's report that once again a law, which also contains constitutional provisions, will be adopted retroactively by your votes. The non-present Austrian People's Party will have to comment on this – especially Mrs Frieser, Mr. Stummvoll or the Economic Federation, who repeatedly ask: Stop the flood of law!; I always receive brochures as an entrepreneur, which include: Stop the flood of law! – Mr Auer will then certainly comment on this. He's been reported for words. These documents state that no retroactive decisions are taken! . So I put Mr Auer to the test and, therefore, the members of the EIA who are always calling for it and ask whether they agree to this proposal. For here a law is passed retroactively, and the Liberals will not agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17728	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Firlinger has been reported at word level. The time and rules of procedure are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17752	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaufmann has made the claim that I would recognise the Chamber's instrument as a suitable representation of interests. I'm actually allowed to correct: I do not recognize the Chamber's instrument, namely the Chamber of Commerce, as a suitable instrument, but I have called for the creation of my own Chamber for Financial Services in a press release. And that's what I'm calling myself.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17782	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17804	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In order to satisfy Mr Peter's thirst for knowledge: The ÖVP will agree to this law and also to the amendment! [[Mr Mag. Interlocutor's call. Peter.]] I was particularly interested in Mr Firlinger's opinion, which has caused my colleague to be boldly soft knee. – I find this particularly strange from a colleague who has no backbone himself. Otherwise, he would not have changed the political group! Ladies and gentlemen! The positive thing about this law is – and we should understand this – that the assets of all those Austrians who did not rely on a classic savings book but on it in the context of random securities transactions are better protected, namely those assets invested in a bank or an investment service firm, such as an asset manager. In practice, this means: The positive instrument of deposit guarantee, which has proved its best in the field of savings assets, will also be extended to securities. Ladies and gentlemen! This ultimately means more security for consumers for their investments, because, as already known from the deposit guarantee, it would be compensated for a damage of up to 275,000 S. Significantly – and I believe this to be positive – the role of the banks has been transferred to the existing sectoral collateral facilities. It is also positive in this law that no public costs are incurred. It is crucial that it includes additional information and information requirements for investors. It also provided for facilitating the acquisition of a concession to service undertakings in the securities field. To sum up, I would like to say: Increased protection, increased security for Austrian securities investors and increased confidence on the part of the saver will certainly strengthen the Austrian securities sector. We should welcome this together. . That is why my group would like to agree with this law, as stated, and with the amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17850	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. The clock is set to 8 minutes. [[Abg. Leikam: So long?]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17880	More than 8 seconds, Mr President, than 8 minutes. My group agrees with the government proposal on the banking law. In essence, I agree with Mr Kaufmann's statement and do not need to repeat it. I originally had minor concerns on one point. I have already said this in committee. It is questionable whether the provision according to § 93 para. 5 Z 9 does not mean that even small savers, who, as we all wish, go to the bank and get a little higher interest there, do not get anything in the case of crisis. But I was then convinced that either the small saver – as it is called here – cannot be causal for the deterioration of the financial situation of the credit institution or, if there are many, without any agreement on an individual basis and therefore there should be compensation. Furthermore, we agree with the proposal, once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17916	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I can only join the saying now: Especially from the point of view of consumer policy, this legislative innovation brings many benefits to small investors in particular. I welcome the fact that there are very many provisions in it which include trust-building measures between investors and money institutions and, on the other hand, more security for investors. Let me briefly take up a proposal from the Chamber of Labour. I myself am an employee in a money institution and consider this proposal to be worth mentioning: The Chamber of Labour proposes that each provider of a security for each offered paper should draw up a so-called "klipp-and-klar-information" to be included in the purchase order in writing. I know very well that later, very often, there are so-called differences of opinion as to how detailed an information was in the consultation. I therefore believe that, on the basis of such standardised information on the key elements of a paper, which the investor receives and in which the income prospects, the risk, the maturity, liquidity and also the costs are cited, one could very well clarify such differences of opinion about good or bad advice afterwards. I would therefore also like to be a member of a money institution to be offered such a service, which would be possible on a voluntary basis at any time, in the future. I would also like to expressly welcome this amendment from the point of view of consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17971	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e17992	Mr President. High house! A functioning capital market, which in particular allows companies access to equity, allows them to be more secure in crises, but also to really exploit the growth that can be achieved in an economy, is undoubtedly of crucial importance for an economy. It is therefore of crucial importance for employment security in our country. At the same time, however, there is no question that consumer protection must be given high importance and that this capital market must therefore function fairly, not only in the interests of businesses and employees, but also in the sense of investors who make their money available to the economy through this capital market. I am therefore very glad that this law implements the EU directive in this matter, which was adopted in 1997. We have asked the Constitutional Service whether entry into force is acceptable in this case for the past, and the Constitutional Service has, after a very in-depth examination of this matter, recognised that this path is quite feasible. That is why we made this proposal. I am therefore very glad that this law, which also brings consumer protection a further step forward, is being discussed here today and is now in the process of decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18028	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no wish of the rapporteur for a final word. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1614 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Kaufmann, Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Van der Bellen and Comrades submitted an amendment or additional request. Mr Magistrate also has power. Firlinger a request for separate vote with regard to Article II § 23a para. 3 and § 23b para. 5............................................................................................................................... First of all, I will vote on the parts of the amendment or addendum and on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The amendment of § 38 para. 4 BWG may, in accordance with § 38 para. 5 BWG will only be decided in the presence of at least half of the members of the National Council by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. So the quorum is given. Deputies Mag. Kaufmann, Dr. Astonishingly, Dr. Van der Bellen has tabled an amendment which refers to Article II Z 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority, in particular with the required two-thirds majority. We now proceed to a separate vote on Article II Z 9 § 23a para. 3 and § 23b para. 5 as amended by the Government template. I would like to ask those members of the House who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is decided by a majority. Deputies Mag. Kaufmann, Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Van der Bellen and Comrades submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Z 10 and the corresponding amendment of the following point names in Article II. Whoever agrees to this request, I ask for a positive sign. . I note that this request was adopted by a majority. The Members of Parliament also have power. Kaufmann, Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Van der Bellen and Comrades submitted an amendment to Article II Z 17. I would ask those members of the House who wish to give him their approval to give an appropriate sign. – Here too, I note that this was adopted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – In this vote, I clearly note the two-thirds majority required. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . I note that the third-reading proposal was adopted by a majority, with the two-thirds majority prescribed by constitution. That's what we've done. 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1574 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Safety and Health Protection of Workers employed in Federal Services (B-BSG) and amending the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Legal Service Act, the Federal Staff Office Act, the Mother Protection Act 1979 and the Workers' Protection Act (1662 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1632 of the Supplements): Federal Law on international allowances for postings pursuant to the Federal Constitutional Act on Cooperation and Solidarity in the posting of units and individuals to foreign countries – Auslandsahlungengesetz (AuslZG) (1663 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Law on International Implementation (1664 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18156	We now come to the items 15 to 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Böhacker has spoken. A speaking time of 5 minutes will be desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18183	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I will soon be referring to an important matter, namely the Federal Civil Service Act. I assume that all the political groups here in the House agree with me when I say: Workers' protection is indivisible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we really want to acknowledge this principle, then there must be an unsustainable situation for us today and probably in the future there will be a two-class society in the field of worker protection: on the one hand, the protection of workers in the private sector with all its forms, which, as I would like to say, are partly covered, and on the other hand, the privileged union, which has massive privileges over its employees, for which the staff have to bear the burden. As a former and longtime public servant, I know what I am talking about. Mr Puttinger will still be familiar with the old financial office in Salzburg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] You will also have known the old financial office in Salzburg! Indeed, there were unreasonable, partly inhumane conditions under which public servants were to work. Fortunately, this has changed with a new construction of the Financial Office. But let me now make a positive comment: After decades of silence and decades of federalism, it has finally become active, probably under the pressure of the implementation of EU directives, but perhaps also in the light of upcoming personnel representation elections: The Federal Government has now finally implemented the 1993 free movement request! Mr State Secretary! It's over with the positive but it's already over. For it must be said clearly: With the present government template, we will not, after decision-making, reach, or not close to, the standard imposed on the private sector, even if the labour inspectorate will have the opportunity to check services unregistered and show maladministration at any time in the future, because – and this is the crux on the whole thing – there are no sanctions! How will this look in practice? – § 91 describes exactly how this will happen: A work inspector finds a maladministration. Therefore, he is left with nothing but to report to the Head of Service. If this does not produce anything, he can pass the message on to the central office or to the central office manager. If nothing happens again, the following situation arises: Nothing is done if nothing is done, although something has been done. That, Mr State Secretary, is this government template, no more and no less! They have explained to us in the Committee on Finance that there are constitutional concerns. They also promised us an opinion of the Constitutional Service. I don't know if Mr Moser has already gotten this. I would like to take a look inside. Maybe he could be so sweet and make this available to me! – So there are constitutional concerns. But it's clear: A law without real sanctions is a toothless paperier, no more and no less! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The lack of sanctions shows the difference between public service and the private sector. In the private sector, there are draconian penalties up to closure. The Federation here, on the other hand, stems from responsibility and does not allow for punishment. From my point of view, therefore, this government template is more of a heavy-duty paper with regard to the forthcoming personnel representation elections. To sum up, let me say: This situation is unfortunate in the light of the fact that workers' protection brings economic benefits to the public. There are corresponding figures in the private sector: There, the accident frequency or the corresponding costs have decreased by 25 percent. – Therefore, it is clear: As long as the privilege of the federal government as a service provider remains true to its servants, we will not give consent to the liberals of such a bill!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18253	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18275	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present draft law on a new federal law on the safety and health of workers employed in the Federal Offices, the Federal Employment Protection Act, opens the way to a uniform protection of workers and leads us at national level to a quality adjustment to the European Union. It can be noted that workers' protection in the European Union is given a higher priority. This standard is also achieved by the adoption of this law. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Colleague! Where's your group?]] Before entering the matter, I wanted to tell my previous speaker something: In the run-up to the negotiations on this law, we have often discussed whether we should create a uniform law. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We would have in this law – my lords, and you know it very well! – but had more references, and it would have been more unreadable than two legislative works. It has a European dimension. We now have a uniform protection of workers in Europe, whether in the public or in the private sector, and it provides for increased protection and shared responsibility between workers and employers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] For efficient worker protection, the responsible level is therefore the service and the responsible person of the head of the service. The reorganisation in occupational medicine The area also includes the introduction of security trustees who are appointed to more than ten staff. The security trustees shall have the task of informing and supporting staff. They shall also inform the staff representative and, in agreement with the staff representative, represent the interests of the staff staff vis-à-vis the service provider. It is very important that the security trustees are not bound by instructions when carrying out their duties under this federal law. Safety professionals must cooperate closely with the safety forces and occupational doctors. The appointment of safety professionals, the establishment of occupational medical centres and the installation of work committees shall be carried out for services with a high and medium risk potential with 1. January 2000 and for services with a lower potential of 1. In January 2001, officials for first aid, for evacuation and fire control, for the handling of fire extinguishers, fire protection officers and fire protection guards are to be determined. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For legal reasons, I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, it can be found that the new Federal Employment Act constitutes a quantum leap towards a modern, uniform worker protection at European level. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Böhacker]] [[Abg. Böhacker: A quantum leap? "Heavy at the FPÖ" – for the protocol!]] I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State and to his officials. Our group is very pleased to agree to this legislative work.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18390	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18415	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to make a brief comment on the German law on foreign allowances in connection with the posting of units and individuals to foreign and foreign employment law. We will give our agreement to these two innovations, although it is clear – and I regret this – that at least two years have been needed to bring about an adaptation of the foreign grant law and the foreign employment law to the new provisions relating to the Federal Constitutional Act on the posting of units and individuals abroad. I believe that it will be necessary to make more rapid adjustments in the future than in this particular case. On the other hand, I believe that we can agree with the law in terms of content, that there are substantial improvements to the previous regulations, although it will be necessary to regulate an area in this context in the future, namely the use and use of persons and units in connection with prevention, with crisis management in advance to possible uses. Unfortunately, this has not yet been done. We shall put forward a motion for a resolution or amendment to that effect, and I assume that, in the course of the deliberations, perhaps during this legislative period, we will be entering a new novel to the law on foreign use. [[Abg. Böhacker: How about the base amount?]] On the second point, on the question of the Federal Civil Service Act. Mr Pendl, I must clearly contradict you. You talked about a quantum leap in this regard. You have also said that the way to uniform staff protection is now open. – I find: with nothing, on the contrary! On the basis of a single worker concept, the opportunity has been afforded to come to a uniform regime for all employees, including those working in the private sector, because these derogations are not really understandable for the public service. I know that it will probably be argued by the Secretary of State, because he has also mentioned this in the Committee, that today the same provisions – with some exceptions – are to be adopted in terms of material content. But that is precisely why, Mr State Secretary, because this federal law was a writing-off, we could have given up on it. It would also have been possible to define the adaptations or the necessary changes to the public service by individual derogations as an annex to the applicable provisions. [[Abg. Böhacker: What about the Constitutional Service?]] I also believe that the argument put forward in connection with the Constitutional Service is not correct. Mr State Secretary! If one reads the opinion of the Constitutional Service, it must be noted that the Constitutional Service does not actually make a specific statement. It shall be determined in point 3 below: Official activities of the Labour Inspectorates, which result in a control of the Federal Ministry responsible for the respective department, in particular because of infringement of the Civil Protection Act, could be incompatible with the position of the Federal Minister as the supreme body of execution. – So he says "could," he is not sure whether they are really incompatible. In the following sentence, he points out that, after Professor Mayer's legal status – we know and appreciate him because of his work as a constitutional and legal expert – the appeal to ministerial responsibility in this regard is irrelevant. – In other words, on the issues of worker protection, the public service has the role of a private person, as well as the authority, for example, in connection with the motor vehicle law, as well as a private person. If this is the case that the service authorities act as private bodies within the framework of the service protection, then the provisions of the Staff Protection Act, as applicable to the private sector, must also be applied, so they are valid. That is to say, there is no need at all to come to a federal law on the protection of workers under constitutional law. Therefore, if we interpreted the Constitutional Service accordingly, we would have found it possible with the rules in force, and we would only need additional provisions. I'm asking You now: In which areas do we need additional provisions or derogations? – You yourself presented this in the Committee as follows: For the area of executives, for the federal army, for the military – that is, for quite a certain number of areas from their number rather limited. We have about 170 000 officials in the public service; The Federal Army, the police, and the Gendarmerie may be the 50 000. That is to say, it has not even been created for a third de facto of its own law. However, I find that the same standards apply to an office in a company and for an office in the financial office or anywhere, or should apply the same criteria. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it! It's not like that!]] That is to say, we have here adopted a regulation that is not really necessary. We have taken an opportunity to decide in the National Council really only those laws that are useful, which are also necessary and for which there is a need, in order not to create, unfortunately, a flood of new regulations and regulations. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Regulation flood!]] Unfortunately, this applies to this government template. In addition, this law also significantly increases the administrative burden. So far, we have found out with about 13 paragraphs. It is now a matter of applying over 100 paragraphs. In addition, it is necessary to adopt appropriate implementing regulations. That is to say, it is a very high administrative burden associated with this law. That is why we see no need or reason to accept this law. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it!]] I would also like to make one more comment on the content. We are dealing with a system which does not provide for sanctions. As you can say, a two-class society is being built. In the private sector there are very strict rules, very strict sanctions, but they do not apply to public services. I believe that this will also establish and establish a system of disparity. I would therefore ask the members of the Committee, in particular, to finally discuss the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier in committee. This is a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to deliver opinions within a reasonable period of time in case of appropriate critical comments from the labour inspectorates, but also to ensure adequate financial coverage to address the forthcoming shortcomings by means of appropriate budgeting. Mr State Secretary! I do not understand at all that, as has been stated, the budgetary situation is not prepared and unwilling to carry out the improvements proposed by the labour inspectors, especially as the comments on the Federal Employment Protection Act show, implementation costs only 300 million schilling. I cannot imagine that the Confederation is not in a position to raise this amount in order to create a state which guarantees and ensures working conditions for the public servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18503	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18525	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I must say a few words about the Federal Employment Protection Act, one that has for many years been pointing out as a representative of the economy that there is an inequal treatment here, which is not actually tolerable, namely a division into two classes of workers: on the one hand, workers in the field of the industrial economy, for which there has been an increasingly stringent worker protection law since 1972, and on the other hand, workers in the public sector, where a corresponding law has not yet been applied. I am therefore pleased that we are taking this step today, that today we also decide on the public sector of this Federal Employment Protection Act, but would like to join me in some of the accents that some previous speakers have put. I too believe that there is still no full equality with the industrial economy in this area. However, we agree because it is an important step in the right direction, a very essential step even. Mr State Secretary! In the near future, however, the economy will also be very close to executing – both laws, the workers' protection law and the Federal Employment Protection Act – because of the fact that we all know, of course, that the implementation of a law is practical and can be designed according to the common sense or also penitent to schizanous. I do not want to see a legal regulation in both areas formally, but in one area it is very strict, rigorous and partly difficult, and in the other area we see some things. I also admit that the question of the lack of sanctions is, of course, a drops of advertising in this law. However, I assume that, just as the Labour Protection Act of 1972 has been repeatedly amended, this law will probably be followed in the near future, if we have first experience of what enforcement looks like. [[Abg. Böhacker: We will observe that very closely!]] – We will observe that very closely. We agree, Mr Böhacker. There is only one point of view. [[Abg. Böhacker: Then I did something wrong!]] We too will observe this very closely. Total, my Ladies and gentlemen, as one who, since the Employment Protection Act 1972, has been very often concerned with issues relating to occupational medicine, workers' protection, health care, occupational diseases and prophylaxis, these measures, when applied efficiently and correctly, are ultimately not only an expression of the social responsibility of the service provider and of a humanitarian attitude, but can ultimately also be achieved by means of a health economic effect. So it was all the more surprising for me to read in the explanations that the financial impact of this measure in the first year, I think, will be 32 million schilling and in the second year about 100 million schilling, in other words, in an order of magnitude: Actually, the public hand could have done this for its employees earlier!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18573	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for quite a short time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18595	Mr President. High house! I too believe that we cannot have two classes of staff in this country, that there should not be a two-class society, but that we need the same protection provisions for public services, which apply to the economy as well. I can only assure you that we have not only adopted the rules, but also that I will ensure that the same standards are used in implementation as for the economy. [[Demonstrative applause by Dr. Stummvoll and Dr. Feurstein.]] For it is not to be seen that there should be differentiation. The 300 million schillings – in order to say that clearly – serve the training, serve the evaluation phase to determine where we need to catch up to meet the same standards. Of course, any building needs that may result are not included in these 300 million schillings. The information on this need will only be available after the evaluation phase has been completed, i.e. at the latest three years, and we will be eager to adapt quickly to the same conditions as those in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18636	The next speaker is Mr. Universitätsprofessor Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ordinary or extraordinary?]] [[Call:Original]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] It's more neat!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18682	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say a few words about the Federal Civil Service Act, but then I will turn to a subject that Mr Brigadier Moser has so concurred. As far as the Federal Civil Protection Act is concerned, I can only agree with Mr Böhacker in full. We too will not give our consent to the law. It was striking in the Committee that the representatives of both government groups stressed the importance they attach to the Single Workers' Protection Act, but nevertheless we now have a separate one. Mr. Colleague stupid – he is unfortunately not here at the moment – has given us an interesting thought sports task, which only becomes aware of me today when I browse my documents. In fact, it has doubted the supplementary expenditure estimate set out in the cover of the law and has meant that if this law does require as little additional expenditure as indicated there, the protection of workers in the public sector cannot, at any rate, be considered to be in the private sector. The area would be similar, because there would be much more expensive protection for workers. I can only say: If the cost estimate is wrong, then I would not want to agree to the law from home. But if it is correct and the protection of workers in the public sector is so much less than in private, I would not want to agree to the law, but that is what the government groups have to do – ah, colleague! - make up for yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: (on the way back to his place) wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A false judgment!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Calls only from your own seat!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That was the surprise effect!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The last possible conclusion, but you may not have meant it, Mr President, would be that the Federal Government is currently working a little healthier than outside the private sector, so that the additional expenditure under the Workers' Protection Act is also raised there. But let's put it all in. I would like to turn to a much more amusing subject, as has been said, one to which Mr Brigadier Moser has agreed, namely the Law on international allowances. This law once again does not solve a problem that actually exists, namely the pension insurance of the military soldiers. We have also discussed this in committee. - But let it be, it's not inside again. However, the law regulates very important other things. Mr President, Mr Fischer! I don't know if in your youth years, when you tried to learn what's going on in politics and bureaucracy, you have read Herzmanovsky-Orlando and at that time had the feeling, well, Herzmanovsky really understands something about the Austrian bureaucracy. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Young]] – I can only say, among other things, because of the study of this law: Herzmanovsky-Orlando was a poet, but had no idea of reality! This international allowance consists of a base amount and supplements. Both are measured in units of value, which correspond to 4.4 percent of the salary and so on to the salary level 2 of the service class V of an official of the General Administration. – You can certainly follow me that far, ladies and gentlemen. I am now saving you the measurement of the base amounts and the allocation to the individual user groups of which there are about 50. It would be very interesting to find out what the "M ZCH" is compared to the "M BUO 2" or the "M BO 2, all of which come into the different supplement groups. [[Abg. Jung: Mr Moser explains this to you!]] That is still quite all right, Mr Brigadier – after an hour follows on an occasion – but the supplements, Mr. colleague, the supplements! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser]] As supplements are considered – I can't save you –: The zone surcharge, the climate surcharge – this has nothing to do with the Federal Chancellor – the crisis surcharge, the initial payment – it has nothing to do with NATO's initial impact capacity, I hope – at least – the functional surcharge, the risk-beat – as if the other were harmless – the accommodation surcharge and the fee. [[Abg. Young: That sounds like the transport companies!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The "Schüselzuschlag" is still missing after the "climate Zuschlag"!]] – These are only those listed in the law. I'm sure there's 120 more. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: But not in this law!]] The world is divided in the zone surcharge, and this is really exciting from the federal army's self-understanding. Because if we make a law before, Mr. Brigadier Moser, then right, right? [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Worldwide!]] Then we don't ask: What happens if the German army is used in the Czech Republic or South Tyrol or in Bosnia or Macedonia? - No! If so, then! So it is the zone surcharge in Zone 1 – that is Arctic, Antarctic and Greenland – six units of value and the zone surcharge in Zone 2 – Africa and Asia, with exceptions, Central and South America, Australia and Oceania – three units of value. [[Rejoicing]] I must say, I've been brewing for a long time. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] For how can it be, I have thought that in a climate that is admittedly unfriendly, such as in Antarctica – minus 50 degrees, but at least always uniformly cold; then one begins a hood – six units of value are charged, but Australia is treated as a uniform zone? – We know very well, it’s wonderful in Sydney, but in the middle of the Gibson desert it’s horrible, because you’re measuring plus 50, maybe even 60 or 70 degrees during the day and minus 5 degrees at night. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What about Ayers Rock?]] And for that, there are only three units of value? - That's unfair! [[Abg. Lacner: Professor...!]] But I underestimated the legislator once again. I have already underestimated him again because in the case of Australia there is not only the zone surcharge, but also the climate surcharge. If, for example, one is stationed in Sydney – I don't know what the federal army is conquering there, but it may be – then he only gets the zone surcharge of three units of value. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler]] But if he is stationed in the Gibson desert at the Aborigines, he also receives the desert surcharge, for that is regulated in § 6. [[Call:Elephant supplement]] Great! However, this only accounts for two units of value, so that you are still better off as a whole when you are stationed in Greenland, because there are six units of value there, instead of in the Gibson desert, because there are three plus two, so together only five units. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals as well as the abg. Ing. Langthaler]] And so on and so on. If you study this in detail, you understand – you don't understand, but you get a sense of it – why the bureaucracy is always and always perpetuating in Austria. For this I do not need to read Herzmanovsky, but only the government template in 1632 of the supplements, printed on 24. February 1999, read. I have to say that the whole thing makes me want a search. That's just the foreign grant law. But what about the domestic allowance law? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] – I really wonder: Where's the justice? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Imagine one of these poor soldiers standing in the Burgenland – and I know that: if you stand there on the border, the mosquitoes, cruel! – on the other hand, the other stands in Kufstein and there guards the border. That's something completely different! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] So what about the allowance against the mosquitoes and – not all mosquitoes are the same – against the other mosquitoes? – The distinction between rose brakes and normal flies seems to me to be essential in this context, because the well-being of the simple sub-offer, but also of the Brigadier Moser, is certainly in any way dependent on it! [[General hustle and bustle.]] What, for example, does it look like in Tyrol? - There are the steep mountains. Elsewhere, in turn, there are the shallower mountains. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] There are mountains with views, and there are mountains without views. [[General hustle and bustle.]] So I would say that for the mountains without a view I have to pull off half a unit of value, because that is something other than the mountain with a view. [[Abg. Böhacker: Is there a success supplement?]] On an occasion, Mr Moser, I would therefore ask for the provision of the domestic allowance law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e18980	Mr Van der Bellen! What are you doing about amendments to the supplements? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Lacner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19011	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Professor, after the events in Australia, both of us might have had to make an amendment to a so-called cyclone allowance in relation to the cyclone. We certainly would have had the laughs on our side today. But let me now go into the Federal Employment Protection Act. [[Abg. Young: How about a crisis allowance for the SPÖ club? They're all in a consultation!]] – Right, that would be another way, but I wouldn’t benefit from it. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Employment Protection Act, which is on the agenda today, is undoubtedly based essentially on a number of European Union directives, which must be implemented in order to protect employees. This will extend and significantly improve the protection provisions in Austria. Austria is more than exemplary in the field of occupational safety. However, Mr Böhacker, it is also important to respond quickly to new findings that improve the situation of employees in Austria and to process them either legistically or by means of regulations. Now it is true that this law – and there were many wishes – has not all been realized. However, this bill is quite acceptable for the protection of employees in Austria. However, this work – and this is planned, ladies and gentlemen – must follow the corresponding implementing regulations in the fields of workplaces, work equipment, health care and the like. The main aspect of this act is prevention, which is intended to ensure that there are no occupational diseases at all. I do not want to go further into what specific provisions the new Federal Employment Protection Act contains or does not include. That is what my previous speakers have done enough. Let me now take a small look at my home country, in Vorarlberg, where not too long ago a law on national and municipal civil protection was also passed, which also uses these EU directives which are pending for the adoption of decisions today. Mr Böhacker! It would not be worth mentioning in particular that in Vorarlberg a national and municipal civil protection law has also been adopted. That would be quite normal in itself. But what irritated me was the fact that your colleague, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Beck, in the Committee, has explained that it is not at all necessary for this law to be taken up by the EU at all. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do not treat any state matters at federal level!]] This is contrary to the principle of deregulation. Mr Böhacker! I am quite annoyed by the fact that I heard you playing out here today as a savior of the right-wings, while your colleague Beck, who is acting as a member of the government parties in Vorarlberg, does not feel that there is a need to protect any employee at all. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is an understatement proven by nothing!]] But he'll be... [[Abg. Böhacker: When did he say that? Where did he say that?]] I'd like to say this to you: At the Committee meeting on Legal Affairs, held on 20.1.1999. I know, Mr Böhacker, that you are not right. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Quote!]] This is your party's classic double game: Here, where you're in the opposition, it can't go far enough. But where you are in power, in principle you do not want to know anything about worker protection, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! Finally, let me mention very briefly that this law is certainly a good start in this area, and of course we will be happy to agree to this law. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19126	The amendment tabled by Mrs Lacner, Dr. Stummvoll and comrades has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Lammer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19151	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lackner, as you said earlier that FPÖ does not want to know about the protection of workers, I must stop you: I think we can send that back to your address! For FPÖ wanted to have a law that actually protects workers, and not, on the one hand, a law that does not provide for sanctions for the public service, and on the other hand, an employee protection law for private individuals, which contains the strictest provisions. It can't be like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can guarantee you one thing: Once the time comes for the FPÖ to take over government responsibility, we will take care of the public service from our point of view! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is interesting to hear the arguments today if a Federal Employment Protection Act is to be adopted here, which does not contain any sanctions. It is really interesting to see this law, as has already been said, as opposed to the Workers' Protection Act. But now it comes: If, for example, one looks at the provisions of § 88 in connection with responsibility, it turns out that, although the covenant does not fall into any guilt in the event of a misbehavior and no sanctions are possible against it, the Head of Service, who is bound to take care to see that inconsistencies are shown, is very likely to be punishable in accordance with his remuneration status, but also in accordance with the provisions of disciplinary law, if he – according to Abs. 2 and para. 3 – in the event of identified defects, does not comply with this law. I don't know how to understand that. If the Federation is indebted, then nothing happens, but if the Head of the Service meets a debt – although nothing is changed anyway – then he is very likely to have the right to discipline. I think it is a legendary establishment of a law, if one makes the head of the service responsible for what is not done anyway, while on the other side of the covenant there is no consequences at all. That is why I have to give my colleague Böhacker a word when he says: Workers' protection is indivisible! We fully support this statement, because it must not be possible to create two categories of staff or workers: on the one hand, such that the private sector is severely affected by the federal government's financial burdens, and on the other hand, in the public service, by calling the officials almost as - we say so - second-class. You might even say: The official is just not taken seriously. Because it sounds like it doesn't necessarily have to be done for the public service. If you turn this around, you could also say: The Federal Civil Service Act is therefore decided without sanctions, because one simply has no money to provide the Federal Services with the means and equipment necessary for the provision of services there in the appropriate manner and according to our intentions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19209	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19230	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the debate on such a law can be quite entertaining has demonstrated Mr Van der Bellen. I believe that for many, what he has said was undoubtedly something that has made the general debate quite fun. Regardless of that, the law already has something serious to do with the background. If 170 000 staff in some 3 600 departments and 11 000 buildings are affected and the safety and health of these colleagues are first introduced to a system of protection provisions, that is something which in principle has to be a concern of both an employee and an employer. [[Abg. Böhacker: 11,000 buildings, 176,000 employees!]] Of course, every step of a law, which is not a hundred percent, can be described as "not enough" or, coming from the other side, one can be pleased that there is significant progress in relation to the current legal situation. I take the second point of view and say: This is an important step forward for the 170 000 people concerned. That is why we say to the People's Party a yes to this legal regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: You can doubt this!]] Mrs. Colleague! Whether you are in doubt or not, I don't care relatively much – if I may say so openly. [[New call of the abg. Madl.]] But in principle it is as follows, Mrs Colleague. I can imagine – because I thought about it when I listened to your colleague – why you cannot agree. An important moment for this regulation to be introduced now is that we are forced by the EU directives to do so. But if you are not for the EU, I can imagine that you do not like all that comes from the EU and imposes on us the corresponding obligation and do not want to accept it in its growth. [[Abg. Young: Very right! In the growth we do not want to accept it!]] Mr Jung, listen to me! [[Abg. Young: I listened!]] If you say no, you simply answer the honourable Members too if you do not afford them de facto the improvements made by this regulation. [[Abg. Young: If you wanted to, you would have had 50 years to do so!]] This is exactly the same conclusion I can draw from my wait, Mr President. It is better for these 170 000 colleagues to be given an improvement with this law than for them to remain in their condition and to be said no to that effect. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is our attitude: An improvement is always preferable to us than to stay in the state that has been given so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we want to continue to participate in the development of future common rules. For it is not at all clear to us that private and public workers do not have the same provisions of protection. For us, however, it is quite clear that for certain areas of the executive – and you, Mr Jung, my knowledge comes from a sub-area, namely from the military – other provisions are necessary. In my view, unlike Mr Moser's opinion, the number of 50,000 people affected is not, so to speak, a small quantity ungligeable, but a dimension of persons that is many times larger than much smaller groups for which we sometimes create our own laws. [[Abg. Young: The law not only concerns the federal army!]] What is right for these smaller groups must also be cheap to us for 50,000 people, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I come to the conclusion. For us from the People's Party, this law is an essential improvement. We hope that it will be carried out with the same kind of accuracy as is controlled in the private sector. This is due to the 170 000 public servants affected by this Staff Protection Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19356	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19378	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I have just heard from Mr Höchtl that the smaller groups should also be accepted. In addition, the Secretary of State has said that the public service is now in favour of the protection of workers. Perhaps it would be time for Members to be included in these benefits too, so that we can get ergonomically correct armchairs and not sit on the existing one that speaks of any worker protection provision Hohn as long as we do today. I think it would be high time to do something for that too! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason for this has already been mentioned in part. In principle, we know two types of payment improvements that can be made, namely the amount of the base and the surcharges. In this we see an unfair classification. In principle, the amount of the base shall be the higher costs resulting from foreign use, for example with regard to the separation of the family and the resulting home travel costs, telephone costs, costs for two households and the like. However, these costs should in principle be the same for all staff. For the other areas, such as charges for commanders and so on, will be paid expressly in other forms with the supplements that Mr Van der Bellen has addressed – unfortunately I have no more time for that. By the way, he was mistaken in believing that this is only true of the Federal Government. There is a large amount of surcharges for federal staff, from the writing allowance for writing staff to the milk allowance and the like. So if he wants to grow up in funny things here, let him know that there are other places where he can be found. But it is true – and this is one of the reasons why we do not agree – that this law was regulated in a rather ridiculously complicated way, in a form that would make it almost ridiculous in any normal army. This corresponds to the bureaucratic thinking of the Austrian top bureaucracy in the ministries. We do not agree and will therefore not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19480	The amendment tabled by Mr Laiber, Mr Scheibner, Mr Young and Mr Colleagues on the Government's proposal has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19504	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As my group colleagues have already said, we will vote in favour of this bill. We all here have unanimously wished that there is a uniform law on the protection of workers and that there is no distinction between public and private services. The wish was expressed that workers' protection for the public service should be adapted to that of the private service, to the commercial economy. I would like to see the protection of workers in the industrial sector revised and many of the horrors that exist there eliminated. I de facto regard the provisions on the protection of workers in the private sector as an anti-employee and see in them a risk to jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me consider what a work inspector, who would go through the house here, could find out. Although I do not share the view of Mr Jung that the labour inspector has a great deal of sympathy for our Members, you, Mr President, would like to point out, for example, that it was in the third place. The floor of this house – where our speakers do their work – does not even give clues to emergency exits. When our dear and very diligent speakers often work late into the night, they also do not have a suitable lighting system available so that they can find their way out. If we were to control the working conditions in the connected homes, we could find that our parliamentary staff – and it was reported to me – have computer systems or screens that do not comply with the relevant rules. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, then, whether we are criminalizing ourselves through this law or whether we are going to be the first one here in the house with good example and create the conditions for our employees. In this sense, I call on all of you to ensure that, in the light of the decision of this law, we are also in line with the relevant provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19545	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19566	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If we are discussing today the remuneration of present-day servants and soldiers engaged in foreign service, we should also talk about what the pension security of these soldiers, especially the soldiers of the militia, looks like. There is a blatant inequality of treatment, a difference between those who support this service abroad as a professional soldier – they are quite normally still in pension insurance – and those others who, as military soldiers, are torn out of their profession, provide this important service for the Republic of Austria. In this respect, the last package of savings has introduced an blatant deterioration. These periods of service, for which the Ministry of Defence is said to have even made a contribution, are only considered as replacement periods for the pension. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of this measure, many military soldiers are blatantly disadvantaged. It is particularly to be criticised that this scheme has been introduced retroactively. In other words, all those who have made such a foreign commitment to the Republic in recent years and decades now find that they are missing years for their pension schemes and that they may not receive a pension at all. Ladies and gentlemen! As parliamentarians, I think we have a responsibility to those who have done this important service, who have certainly deserved good, but who have received false information at the time. And we have responsibility for correcting this mistake now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum has tabled a proposal in this direction, and we have dealt with it in committee. As chairman of the committee, I have tried to put this request on the agenda today so that it can be discussed. For not only should we put our own requests on the agenda, but we should also work for other important applications. It has therefore been a little surprising to me that not even the representative or, better said, the representative of the Liberal Forum in the Presidency had been moved to put this request on the agenda by the Group of the European People's Party. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who was that?]] It seems that there has already been such a wide-ranging debate there that you do not even mention your own requests – about your requests, Mr Moser! – can discuss. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In any case, we are proposing a resolution on this subject. I hope that you will support him because he will remove this disadvantage. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think we owe this request to all those who provide such an important service to the Republic abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19635	I would like to point out that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mr Böhacker, Mr Jung and others on sufficient pension provision for Austrian army officials has been tabled in accordance with business rules and is therefore also being voted on. No one is reporting on this. I now take advantage of the good presence to say that I would like to ask for a short presidential meeting to be held in preparation for the assignment meeting or tomorrow's agenda for 23 o'clock. This is likely to allow us to complete the preparations without interrupting the session. The Director of Parliament will also be invited to do so by telephone. There is no wish of the rapporteur for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately between the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1574, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report in 1662. Members Dr. Novotny and Dr. Stummvoll have tabled an amendment concerning Rule I § 107. Since there is only one amendment tabled, I will vote on the draft law taking account of the proposed amendment. I would point out that the present draft law contains constitutional provisions. Therefore, in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, states that the quota necessary for the adoption of constitutional provisions is necessary. I shall therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1574, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr. Novotny and Dr. Stummvoll and the amendments to the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this sign. . I note that this is decided by the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. This was decided by a majority, in turn with the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes, at third reading. The next item is the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1632 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Lammer and Mr Comrades. In addition, Mr Lacner, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Lafer has tabled an amendment relating to Sections 3 and 9. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment tabled by Mr Lammer on § 3 and § 9 for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll and comrades have, as mentioned, an amendment concerning § 18 para. 1 introduced. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval give a sign of this by raising the places. The request was decided by a majority at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Next we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1664 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on sufficient pension provision for Austrian army officials. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the Scheibner resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1625 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the drawing of additional capital shares within the framework of the 5th general capital increase of the African Development Bank (1673 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1558 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Performance of an Austrian Contribution to the Second Refill of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF 2) (1665 of Supplements) 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1559 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the performance of further contributions to the World Bank Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) for the years 1999 to 2001 (1666 of Supplements) 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (612 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on the promotion and protection of investment (1667 of the supplements) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (893 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Chile on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, including Protocol (1668 of Supplements) 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1477 of the Supplements): Agreement on the interpretation of certain articles of the article between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Paraguay on 13 March. Agreements on the promotion and protection of investment (1669 of the Supplements) signed on 1 August 1993
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19850	We are now negotiating points 18 to 23 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. Since there is no wish for oral reporting, we are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19877	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! These are three grants for development aid or capital participation in the African Development Bank. Overall, it is a volume of 834 million schilling, one part of which has to be paid directly; the other part is the acceptance of liability. The direct payments are broken down as follows. Firstly, the Global Environment Facility must pay a total of 231 million schilling in the funds – the GEF 2 funds – in five annual instalments from 2001 to 2005. These are one-off payments for which there are no repayments. This will address more environmental promotions for climate change, biodiversity, international waters, ozone and the like. The second contribution goes to the World Bank Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research for the years 1999 to 2001. It is about an order of 51.9 million schilling, payable in three rates at 17.3 million schilling each. It is to be said that this agricultural research is basically correct, as it has brought a significant increase in output in the size of 80 per cent in the developing countries over the last decades. This is a great success, and this is certainly also due to this international agricultural research. However, one must also be aware that the population will increase by 90 million per year in the coming years and that by 2025 a total population increase of 2.5 billion is expected. On the other hand, land resources in developing countries are largely exhausted. This agricultural research is also no longer limited to developing countries, but should also be extended to industrialized countries. To this end, appropriate measures will be taken. The third contribution concerns the general increase in the capital of the African Development Bank. The total is 3,780 shares, 227 of which are payable and 3 553 are shares of which are capital. It is basically a question of paying the affordable shares in the order of 33.1 million schilling. These three development grants and capital investments are also concerned with the need for greater control of the purpose of use in the future. Secondly, we must ensure that all countries participate in this. For example, it is not a question of the United States taking the view that it is no longer or only to a lesser extent involved in this action, and that other States such as Germany, France or Italy will find any excuses as the Americans do not pay, so that there are financial gaps that need to be filled up again. If it is a contribution of solidarity – as such we see it, but critically – then all countries must also take part in the same framework. However, because this is still not secured and because a proper purpose of use has still not been demonstrated by the various control bodies, we shall not give consent to these three government proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19930	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e19951	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In all the shorts required: Although each of these proposals would be worthy of more detailed consideration, I would like to limit myself essentially to three comments. Point one: As far as the issue of the increase in the capital of the African Development Bank is concerned, we consider this to be a useful measure, because after the African Development Bank crisis three to four years ago, on the one hand, the rehabilitation measures have been successfully implemented and, on the other hand, there is a positive economic growth potential in a number of African countries, which is also not uninteresting for a number of Austrian companies, as has become apparent in the light of the visit of the President of the African Development Bank. This does not mean, however, that the continent as a whole has prosperous economic prospects as long as there are a number of military conflicts in individual countries. In all the dramas of individual military conflicts, however, it should not be overlooked that individual countries have growth rates that are quite unique worldwide. For a country like Austria, it would not be appropriate to exclude itself from these growth prospects. That is why we believe that the scope of this African Development Bank for action should be extended, and that it should be useful for these possibilities to be used by Austria as well. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, We have a number of investment protection agreements to conclude, with the respect for certain criteria being very important to varying degrees: On the one hand, the investment protection agreements are necessary in order to advance trade and investment accordingly. On the other hand, these investment protection agreements must not open a back door, which will lead to unwanted immigration of foreign labour into the Austrian labour market. That is why we have made a point in the Committee's report, which I think is essential, namely that the investment protection agreements do not mean that we should be able to interpret measures which would go beyond the already entered into GATT or WTO commitments. I consider that, in the sense of the solidity of the Austrian labour market, it is necessary to supplement it; with this note, these investment protection agreements are a useful matter. I do not want to go into detail about the increases in individual funds located at the United Nations, such as the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund. I would just like to point out that this is one of the most successful funds, perhaps one of the most important remains of the Rio Conference on the fight against international greenhouse effects. And it is important that we support it. From the point of view of the Austrian taxpayer, it is to be said that the capital increase we are now carrying out is below our quota, i.e. it is an extremely economical measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20000	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. You want a speaking time of 3 minutes; the remaining speaking time for your group is 4 minutes, so that is the absolute limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20022	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the agreements on the protection of investment in the near future. Although we will give our assent, I would like to express some criticism because of the lack of answers to questions in the Committee and the content of the Committee's statements. First: No experience from previous agreements has been presented, although it would have been time to assess before the conclusion of new agreements at least the success of previous agreements, in order to determine how important they are for companies and what protection companies actually enjoy or whether there has been dispute or dispute. Secondly, The Committee's position on the agreement with Croatia points to such disputes as are pending on the part of Croatia. Mr State Secretary! We did not get an answer to the question of which and how many disputes and what amounts are involved. Thirdly, there was no clear answer regarding the agreement with Paraguay on interpretation, which is all to be understood by the term "social interest". Although we have speculated what it might mean, a clear statement and interpretation have not been made. Fourthly, in connection with the misinvestment of the Zumtobel company in China, which we have referred to, which has lost about 100 million schillings in the construction of a coffee roasting plant, it was clear that such agreements do not ultimately guarantee the necessary protection in all cases. Mr State Secretary! The strict compliance by Austria's contractual partner was not actually required in this case. I very much regret that Austria has not become active in this regard! In summary, it should be noted that these agreements do not guarantee the protection of investment in any case. I therefore believe that we do not ask too much, Mr State Secretary, if we urge the government to think about how to improve the protection of investment under such agreements in a sustainable way. Another word on Mr Gusenbauer's statement: I had the impression that your declaration of approval on the increase in the capital of the African Development Bank and your statement of reasons was not quite likely. It would be right for me to examine such agreements with regard to capital increases much more intensively and to consider, or to examine, how the funds are actually used on the spot. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20071	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20089	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As we are now discussing some investment protection agreements, I would like to point out that, as I believe, it is very effective that there has been unanimity in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Why? . Because it is important that we in principle recognise that such investment protection agreements support or contribute to the promotion of mutual economic contacts and that the greater the protection of investment is the easier the promotion of such economic cooperation between Contracting States. The reason why I am commenting on this is that such agreements as those relating to cooperation between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia - I have already stressed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - must also be pursued in the future. However, I would like to stress very well that in the past this did not in all cases lead to the mutual advantage. I have also mentioned in the Committee the specific case - without mentioning the name now - of a company to which I have the documents in which a dispute has been taking place for years. That is why I very much welcome the fact that all the political groups voted in favour of a committee, which says that it is expected that Croatia's bilateral disputes will be brought to a solution as soon as possible. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of trying to decide on new forms of investment protection agreements, without really insisting on the fact that previous cases are also resolved to the satisfaction of those Austrian companies that have invested millions there. I am glad that the necessary steps have been taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately after our decision was taken, and I hope and appeal to the competent authorities of Croatia that they comply with these intentions which we have unanimously decided. Because only on the basis of trust will more intensive economic cooperation be possible in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20126	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20147	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Today, we are adopting three laws that we are entering into international commitments. The total financial volume of these federal laws is 300 million schilling, and the capital of detention is 500 million. Such obligations, which are now very numerous, are always subject to a liquidation law in this House. In the meantime, however, the overview seems to have been lost. I would like to see more transparency for this House. Mr State Secretary! I would therefore ask you to take along as a suggestion for your ministry the following: No new commitments should be entered into without plausible and concrete breakdown of expenditure and no new commitments, in which evaluations are not ensured. Mr State Secretary! You will remember that the Group of the European People's Party wanted us to be presented with pre-disbursements on the use of funds in this context. I call for a detailed breakdown of all Austrian commitments of this kind, and I would suggest that this House conducts a parliamentary discussion on the selection of future such aid programmes. But we do not want to say that, of course, we are in solidarity with poorer countries and that there is still a willingness to help and support. However, we believe that increased control of the use of resources must take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20183	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word was not required by the rapporteurs. I would ask you to take the places, we have a number of votes, and we shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1625 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1558 of the supplements. Whoever is to give a sign? - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. I now ask for a vote for the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1559 of the supplements. Whoever is to give a sign? - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by the majority at second reading. We shall now come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to give the approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 612 of the Supplements. Whoever is for the grant of approval, may give a sign of approval. – Authorisation shall be granted unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty and the Protocol in 893 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this approval may give a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. The approval shall be granted unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1477 of the Supplements. Whoever is for the approval of this state contract may give a sign of consent. – This approval is granted unanimously. 24. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Helmut Peter and comrades concerning a federal law amending the National Bank Act 1984 (1012/A)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20304	We're coming to the 24th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant shall first speak. – Mr Mag. Peter! You have to get rid of Mrs. Konrad's charm now, because you have to speak from the speaker's desk! I now give you the floor as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can draw your attention to a request from the Liberal Forum, which deals with the National Bank Act. They know that the Austrian National Bank Act in conjunction with the Austrian Banking Act provides that the institutions of the Austrian National Bank have a very important role to play in the control of the Austrian banking system and that the Federal Ministry of Finance is also required to provide information. The Oesterreichische National Bank's institutions, in particular the Executive Board, naturally know the economic situation and also the details of the economic situation of the Austrian banking system. The General Council as Supervisory Board of the Austrian National Bank is filled with high-ranking personalities. And there must be a reason for the existing National Bank Act to normize that only four members of the General Council may belong mainly to the administration of credit institutions. ==References== The appointment of Director-General Herbert Schimetschek as Vice-President of the General Council took place on September. Ladies and gentlemen! Give me the opportunity to make it clear here that I think Mr Schimetschek is an excellent personality of Austrian economic life, which is, of course, a profit for the General Council. However, the appointment as Vice-President is a smooth mistake! Ladies and gentlemen! If one belongs to the General Council as a member of the Office of the Austrian National Bank, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Austrian National Bank, one takes part in the Executive Board meetings, and at these Executive Board meetings, the Vice-President even has to hold the Presidency in the absence of the President. He thus has all the information available today on the Austrian credit instrument in the field of the Austrian National Bank and also the Ministry of Finance, because there is a mutual obligation to provide information. If the same personality is now also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the First Austrian Sparkasse, it obviously knows the economic situation and economic situation of a Bank Austria, a Raiffeisenzentralbank et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen! This is highly incompatible and an error in the law that we want to eliminate by this request. It is not possible for a person from economic life to forget the information she received at the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Austrian National Bank once again because she then serves as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the First Austrian Savings Bank. Let me quote from § 33 of the Austrian Stock Act. That's what it's called under lit. c "Interest collision" literally: "As a result of the foreign interest commitment, there can be a wide range of conflicts of interest. The careful exercise of the Supervisory Board member's duties is to avoid conflicts of interest or, if they are inevitable and become a conflict of obligations, to resolve the business interest in accordance with his primary obligation." It also refers to the conflict of obligations: "In such a case, the Supervisory Board member cannot relieve himself of the argument that the fulfilment of obligations vis-à-vis one company justifys the breach of obligations towards the other. In order to resolve the conflict, the Supervisory Board member must give up one of the two offices." I continue to quote from Reich-Rohrwig's comment, also on the question of organic fidelity and conflicts of interest – literal quotation –: "In addition, it must be assumed that the Supervisory Board member must always give priority to the corporate interest. If no other solution is found, one of the colliding offices must, if the conflict of interest becomes a conflict of interest, settle down." – I could quote other experts from legal literature. That means: If Director-General Heribert Schimetschek does not use his information as a member of the Executive Board of the National Bank, to which he belongs as Vice-President, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the First Austrian Sparkasse, he has committed a gross breach of duty. However, if he uses this information, he in turn violates the obligation of confidentiality in accordance with the National Bank Act. In my opinion, therefore, it is a very clear conflict of obligations, and I regret that Mr Bundeskanzler Mag. Climate, although I did it on 4 May. On September 8th, this conflict of interest and conflict of obligations had been pointed out by the order on September 8th. On September 11th and on my letter, unfortunately, I was only made on September 11th. In December, the Commission sent a reply to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling to the Court for a preliminary ruling. What does this mean for us, ladies and gentlemen of the House? . I believe that we must make a change in the National Bank Act by removing a single word. In § 22 para. The third sentence of the old version reads as follows: "No more than four members of the General Council shall be members of the Executive Board of credit institutions." – This word "main professional" must be deleted, because, as I have just shown you by means of the cited law bodies and the comment, a president of a Supervisory Board is of course obliged to make all his expertise and knowledge available to the company. Because otherwise he also comes into the liability of the Supervisory Board. On the other hand, no one can expect him to use the knowledge he has received as Vice-President of the General Council and thus a member of the Board of Directors on other institutions, and what he has received in terms of competition information. No one can keep it apart! I therefore propose that we make the amendment of the National Bank Act in this form at once in order to prevent such conflicts of interest from happening again. Furthermore, Mr. Federal Chancellor should break his head on whether the National Bank would not be better served if the excellent economic personality of Commercial Councillor Schimetschek were a simple General Council member and the position of Vice-President would be perceived by someone else. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I don't want to go that far now; or should I perhaps? – ask the question in the room whether this order may not have something to do with the red-black "color teaching".
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20402	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20424	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will discuss this request in detail in the Committee. Mr Peter! However, I would like to mention a few things during the first reading – I am limited to three points. First: Your application is essentially addressed by members of the administration. Therefore, we need to discuss whether a Supervisory Board is not primarily a supervisory or control body of a company, how far we grasp the term "management", whether administratively not only board members and executives of an undertaking are to be understood and by the term "administrative" for example, the supervisory councils you refer to in the explanatory statement. Secondly, We must ask ourselves where the border of the group of persons mentioned by you lies with regard to incompatibilities. They have been talking primarily about credit institutions. If you consider these incompatibilities to be incompatibilities, then the question arises whether these analyses may not be of great interest to other economic operators, such as insurers or managers of the real sector, and whether, on the basis of the intention you have presented, you should not in any way exclude individuals from the private sector from the circle of persons to be chosen for such a function in the National Bank. These analyses are obviously interesting not only for credit institutions but also for members of comparable economic groups. Thirdly, I must say: You are right, in theory, that this incompatibility may exist, but in practice we have found that the members of the General Council and the Bureau have complied with the obligation of confidentiality imposed on them. I am not aware of any specific case in which this would have become a problem. However, I give you the right to say that we do not have to legislate and must not wait until, in some cases, an unpleasant case occurs, but as a legislator, to take precautions. However, I would like to point out that, if you want to take this issue into account, your request is not correctly formulated in my opinion and raises a number of follow-up questions where the border is to be drawn. Finally, Faith Do you really think that the knowledge of the analyses made in the National Bank goes beyond what is known in the general market observation of competitors on the Austrian market anyway? . We will have to debate this question in detail during the Committee's deliberations. I look forward to these discussions with great interest!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20470	Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20491	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, I believe that the problem you have raised is a rather academic one. The past has proved that the National Bank was very well and in fact unfit for conduct by both the Bureau and the General Council. I therefore believe that the fears you have shown are certainly mentioned in theory, but in practice another way has shown itself which was not worse. I would like to mention one more point: I think that, if the bank apparatus were excluded from the Bureau or the National Bank's General Council, one would also exclude a very substantial part of the implementation of monetary policy. I therefore wonder whether the advantage of the banks being involved in the implementation of monetary policy and therefore also, if they are part of it, outweighs this manco you have shown in the theory. I therefore believe that we should consider carefully. The Committee on Finance will certainly find out whether your fears alone are enough to eliminate the entire banking system from these two institutions. For my terms, that would be really serious to weigh and check. I hope that this will happen in the Committee on Budgets. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20519	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1012/A to the Financial Committee. 25. Point Election to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20555	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. With a view to the withdrawal of Dr. h.c. Manfred Mautner Markhof from the Federal Council, the election of a substitute member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe must be carried out. This choice shall be made by the National Council. I have the written proposal to vote in favour of Mrs Dr Hlavac. It is only this one election proposal, so that I am in accordance with § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote with votes, but shall be cast off from the seats by lifting them. Is there any objection to this? [[Interlocutory remarks by representatives of the ÖVP.]] – Deputy Dr. Maitz! Do you agree with this procedure? – The lifting of seats is therefore the form of voting. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Yes!]] I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – Consent is unanimous. Mrs Hlavac is thus elected a substitute member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to congratulate you very much, Madam Members. [[General condolences.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Please stay in your places, I have something to tell you. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-03-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00162_d7e20606	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in motions 1035/A to 1049/A. Questions 5943/J to 5994/J were also raised. Finally, a question was asked by the honourable Member Mag. Johann Ewald Stadler and comrades brought to the President of the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! A further meeting will be held following this meeting, which will cover business communications and allocations. However, it is important for this meeting to know what the current President-in-Office has now agreed. I would therefore ask for an understanding of the fact that I am closing this sitting, but I would ask you to stay here, because I will hold the allocation session immediately when the President-in-Office is over. This meeting is closed.
