ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e2641	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 179 – for the future hour. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 178. Meeting of 8. It has therefore been deemed approved in the Parliamentary Directorate. As prevented, only Mr Wenich is reported today. I would ask you to take note of this. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e2675	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Mr. Bartenstein, Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family, is represented by Mr. Bartenstein, Minister of State Defense Dr. Fassleven. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e2699	We arrive at the current hour with the topic Professional Land Defense for a Safe Austria The first speaker in the current hour has, as you know, a speaking time of 10 minutes. Mr Scheibner was the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e2732	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Security policy has been very often discussed in Austria in recent weeks and months. The SPÖ was reserved to bring neutrality into play in the EU election campaign – apparently there were no other topics – and German Chancellor Climate defended a neutrality which he himself abolished with the consent of the EU accession of Austria. But apparently it was only right and cheap for a party in Austria to abuse the fear of the population of war and insecurity for the winning of voters. Some time ago, there was a rumor that the ÖVP would like to launch a professional debate for the National Council election campaign. In order to achieve this, Mr Gaál went to the public with a broadcast and suddenly demanded the introduction of a professional force himself, even though the SPÖ has always rejected this institution and this idea. It is quite interesting what demands are made in pre-election times. Right after that, however, there was a retreater, one did not want to discuss it anymore, because one seemed to have noticed... – Colleague Wabl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] I know you have a problem with that. You want to abolish the federal army, you don't want security in this country – that's why it's better not to speak in this debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At any rate, there was a withdrawal. In the last few days, mutual debt allocations have again taken place, who is responsible for the catastrophic state of the Austrian state defense, especially the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Wabl: What about NATO now, Mr Scheibner?]] Mr Bundeskanzler Klima believes that the Minister of Defence is guilty, the Minister of Defence says that the SPÖ is guilty because it does not provide the necessary money. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that this federal government, the whole of the Federal Government, is responsible for the state of Austrian defence. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have seriously neglected the security policy of Austria over the last ten years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have failed to make a clear decision in security policy, and you have also failed to formulate clear orders to the Austrian federal army. In the end, they have also failed to make available to the Austrian federal army the funds necessary to be able to fulfil these orders as well. Mr. Minister of Defence! They always boast that you are the longest-served defence minister in Europe. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven.]] But what's your balance? – Under your responsibility, the Austrian army was "champed". 0.8 percent of the gross domestic product is spent in Austria on security and defence. This means that we are the absolute final light in Europe – still behind Luxembourg. The SPÖ always brings neutral or alliance-free states as an example of an active security policy. Let's see how this looks in Switzerland: 1.9 percent of the gross domestic product is spent on safety. Let's see what it looks like in Sweden: Over 3 percent of the gross domestic product is spent on security policy, for the army. Finns also spend more than 2 percent of GDP on their national defence. That would be the degree indicators you should measure yourself with; these countries would be used for comparisons if you seriously take independent national defenses to be good examples. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfortunately, because of your policy in the Federal Government, the Austrian Federal Army is not able to fulfil the orders contained in the federal constitution, either in terms of personnel or in terms of material or in financial terms. The main weapons systems are outdated or missing at all. There are not even enough trucks to bring our soldiers to the exercises. Private buses are rented for this – that is: by bus into the battle!, that is the motto of our Federal Army, Minister of State. We have seen in the disaster in Galtür that too few helicopters exist. You should have decided on the Dragon successor for a long time on the aircraft. The pilots who have been most laboriously trained are being rejected by civilian airlines. On the other hand, in recent years, Mr Federal Minister, you have carried out a number of additional tasks for the Federal Army, without at the same time requiring additional budget resources or providing appropriate equipment. I am thinking, for example, of the use of assistance – an important measure, as the Ministry of the Interior is unable to secure the border to the east accordingly. But, as we have discussed this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, the extension of the assistance will, in particular, endanger the training of our basic defence servants. For up to three months, our basic defense servants have to spend their time in the assistance. There are only four months left for training, although you know exactly – and your experts have told us this – that at least eight months are necessary in order to ensure appropriate training. Assistance is an important measure, but there are problems in this regard due to the lack of infrastructure. Or also foreign operations: Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We are there for every effort to be made in Austria. Whether it's Albania, whether it's Kosovo or it's UN missions, whether it's Bosnia, you're with it everywhere. Where and how the preparation is carried out, where the device comes from, is then considered so husch-push. It is now considered how to get the tents necessary for the KFOR operation from where to get the staff. Europe-wide, it is common for only professionally trained and equipped soldiers to participate in such dangerous operations. There is no soldier in Germany who is not prepared for such a foreign mission for at least one year before he is sent into such an adventure, Mr Wabl. [[Abg. Wabl: What about NATO now, Mr Scheibner?]] In Austria, the staff is sought by an ad. After six weeks of fast-seated courses, people are sent in such missions. Federal Minister! That's irresponsible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have responsibility for the security of our soldiers. Don't just take part in such missions for prestige reasons! Federal Minister! In addition, the federal army is becoming more and more a two-class army. The last device is provided for foreign use, and there is nothing left for domestic use. I have brought here a small example, just a small example, Mr. Minister of Defence. [[The speaker shows a German army's helmet.]] You know very well that it took ten years for you to buy a new helmet for the Austrian federal army. Ten years has been needed, but this is an excellent product! – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Sit down!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Set it up if it fits!]] This is not the opportunity for any fun. This is a very serious matter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] We use good equipment abroad, but let's see what training our ground defenses are doing – with this device! [[The speaker shows another martial helmet.]] Those who remember World War I films with John Wayne or Gregory Peck will have seen this helmet there. World War I, ladies and gentlemen! This helmet can be taken apart, it may not be bad to use it as a washing bowl, whatever happens. But he doesn't give any security, he doesn't offer any protection for our ground defenses. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the other groups) That you find funny!]] Federal Minister! That's irresponsible! Few helmets are purchased for foreign use, but these old models are used for our home defenses! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! We demand from you that the Austrian Federal Government at last make a decision on the principle that Austria participates in the construction of the common European security structure, that, due to the new situation, the Austrian Federal Army be converted into a professional army, with professional soldiers and a serious volunteer military! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want a professional à la Cap with 14 000 men who are running around somewhere ill-dominated and waiting for them to be sent into a service or not, but a truly serious state defense, 30 000 to 40 000 professional soldiers – not like now 21,000 military personnel, of which only 4,000 are in the force – and a serious volunteer military. In fact, we do not have the obligation to do so anymore. Anyone can freely decide whether to perform civil service or service with the weapon. But, of course, this is also problematic in view of the budget figures. A professional volunteer army means professional soldiers and a militia taken seriously, which is well-trained and which is also provided with a corresponding budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Security policy must not become a game ball within the coalition, security should be a national interest here in Austria. Finally, decide in this direction! In this we will agree with you, but you will see us as an absolute opponent when it comes to – as you do – selling the security interests of Austria and sending Austrian soldiers, Austrian soldiers, poorly trained in operations, poorly equipped, so that the lives and health of these soldiers are at risk. [[Complaints with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e2901	I should like to ask the Minister of State for an opinion on the current hour. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e2931	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Scheibner, you have not even given the speech of an opposition politician three full months before the next National Council election. I think that's how it's valued, too, most of your statements. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] To give you a clear picture, I do not want to confront my own assessment, but I would like to bring you the assessment that experts have given and delivered on the quality of the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Böhacker: Are you not a specialist?]] I am therefore also reading this literally. For example, it says: "I want to thank you for what Austrian soldiers are doing in Bosnia. With their professionalism, dedication and hard work they are sure to be the best ambassadors of Austria to the world." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'll translate it. I would like to thank you for what Austrian soldiers do in Bosnia. With their professionalism, commitment and hard work, they are certainly among the best ambassadors of Austria in the world. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] This is not the judgment of anyone, but that is the decision of NATO commander, so that a man whose expertise can certainly not be challenged, deputies! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's a courtesy gesture!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] However, I would like to be prepared to present you with other papers, such as what the US Minister of Defence has to say. He praises our soldiers for their excellent work and performance. I can tell you what the commander-in-chief of the American Marine Corps says about this. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't care what he says! Unlike you, we know this from practice!]] He also says: talent, hard work and genius know-how – that is, and real know-how –; that's what he attests to our soldiers! – You should include that! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that a reading?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would certainly not be right to mention only what there is in positive achievements – and there we have a lot to show. Ten years ago, we were an army – probably the only army in the world – that has no missile weapons, but now we are an army that owns both ground-floor, ground-air and air-air arms, and also understands to use them if this is necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] In the main weapons systems, we have not only modern but best equipment. I am thinking, for example, of artillery – you yourself were there, honourable Members – or of the new tanks, which means that we have the world's best combat tank at all with the Leopard, and much more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this is only part of it. However, we can also be proud that we have improved training for officers, officers and also for basic defence workers in a very new way. We can say that we have an effective organisation capable of carrying out its tasks in accordance with the way it has proved it in all the exercises and operations so far and will prove it in the future. We must, of course, also make every effort to carry out the future tasks accordingly. However, the Federal Government needs more money to do that, when it comes to making large investments, and these are ahead of us. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is responsible?]] [[Abg. May. Main: empty promises, Minister!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We acknowledge that Austria needs a strong federal army in its geographical situation: for the use of disasters, for assistance and, of course, for any security threat that can come to our country. [[Abg. Young: That's where you're at the end of your career?- Oh, my God!]] This also certainly means that we not only train professionally, but undoubtedly also make the basic decisions. ==References== In May of this year, at the latest since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the situation has arisen in which an isolated process in Europe no longer has a future. It is undoubtedly on the basis of the Amsterdam Treaty, in which the European States become a common We have committed ourselves to developing a common defence policy in terms of foreign and security policy, including the time for us to make this decision in principle and to review and, if necessary, to re-assess related decisions, such as those of the military system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] However, it must also be said that the most important thing is to create framework conditions in the past. It is simply about being involved in a security system to have appropriate security reserves when there is a crisis. Of course, we must bear in mind that today neutrality also means that we have a ban on preparing our own defence, even if it should be done together with other countries. That is the truth, and that is what we must say to the people. The truth is that crisis management can only be done together today, that it only makes sense if it is done together. The truth is that this common ground is the condition for us to say: We have the choice between different military systems, and we can then make the choice which system is best for Austria in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that national elections take place in less than three months and that a large part of you will belong to the National Council during the next legislative period, I would also like to appeal to you: Austria is rich in lip confessions for its security and rich in lip confessions for its intervention in the defense of the country. In reality, however, it is not only about creating the appropriate conditions, but also about standing up for them in hard decisions, even if it is perhaps unpopular – the national defence is not always the most popular, that is known to all of us – to stand up for it when the decision has been made that you have to buy new equipment, which costs a little bit of money to pay the soldiers accordingly, that you have to have a lot of money to take part in deployments. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that must be demanded, Minister!]] We have now managed to pay for the new missions to which our soldiers are sent. I would also like to thank you for this support. However, more support will be needed in the next legislative period. I ask you to take this into account in your considerations and in your intentions, because Austria needs a strong army for its own security.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3151	Thank you many times, Minister of State, for the opinion. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time is 5 minutes each. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3178	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You, Mr Minister, have spoken about the polemics of an opposition politician. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go!]] I would like to speak to you, ladies and gentlemen, about the untruths of a Federal Minister, who is the longest-serving Minister of Defence in this country, but who at this time has become abated to the involuntary Minister of Disarmament. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, I would like to tell you, Minister of State: They always use the same – in good Viennan style – "smear". It is extremely unfair, the performance of the...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3217	Deputies! We can also hold this discussion in a way... – No, if in a sentence two words are used in which one sees together, then I allow myself to ask to speak in the way that this House is honoured. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about "smear"...?]] I don't let anyone argue about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You have the floor, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3255	You're sensitive, but the opposition is supposed to listen to everything. It is about, Mr Federal Minister – and this is unfair – that you use the achievements of the Austrian soldiers abroad, which no one has fought, here as a heat shield for your own inability. I can't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] Mr President. I am quite prepared to prove these untruths or these gaps and inabilitys. I am now going to the area of the device and the material. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... This is an untruth!]] In this respect, this federal army is at the end. What is still working, Mr President, sends us abroad to get a welcome; what remains, that is, the rest, remains in Austria. It then looks like the soldiers are being sent to the fight with buses. There were 2 900 bus rentals because no trucks are available that are suitable for travel. In other words, a bus was rented once a year for each ten ground defensesmen. There is nothing going on in this area in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: They'd rather go by bus anyway!]] The Federal Minister sent the S-LKW abroad. However, they were not suitable for use there, because they were not armored, so they were armored. Now he boasts how many supply trips are carried out in Bosnia. But this is only because they are too heavy and can be loaded by a third less. That's how your truths look, Minister of State, who you serve us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have announced to us the solution of the tank problem with LEOPARD. You have bought too few tanks to really fully equip the battalions with them. Only after – and now I come to the untruths – could you tell the truth and tell us how much ammunition is available for this. Then it turned out that if the first turntable turnout is trained, you can't even upgrade all the tanks in Austria. That is your solution to the problem of tanks, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Wels they have a tank battalion, a full quota, which has eleven tanks available, which you only received shortly before in the cadre, where you have no tower trainer and where there is no equipment kit, no repair kit, which means that the tanks cannot be repaired with the right tool. There is also no suitable mountain range, because your mountain tank for the LEOPARD looks so much that it has only half as much hp as the tank he is supposed to drag off. The Puch 500 drags the Mercedes into your system, Mr. Minister, so to speak. There is no training equipment for it and much more – and all this only for the reason that you have done a business, a counter-business with the SPÖ: You can buy your tanks, you have to buy the PANDUR. But with that, you have done the worst service to the Austrian federal army at all. They are sending this PANDUR to a foreign mission, in the most dangerous foreign use, ladies and gentlemen, which Austrian soldiers had to complete so far – with an unfit device that can only drive with a reduced tower and a reduced weapon and has the limits on speed, because there has been a serious accident with a dead person and six injured and the Commission of Inquiry therefore has these limitations. However, this Minister sends Austrian soldiers with a device that is not combatable, abroad, to an area where fighting takes place. It has already been shot in Albania in Austria. Who knows what will only be in Kosovo. That, Mr Minister, is your responsibility, and you have to bear this responsibility. That's incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now you have the next debacle on your neck, Minister. You're tumbling from one to the next. There is still the problem with the ULAN. 4 billion schilling debts, and no one knows how this will be paid. Skill Are you even responsible for this good conscience? – You might think: Behind me the flood! You hear rumors, too, that you are tired. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Under these conditions, this is to be understood. They have used up the last reserves of the federal army, they have sent them abroad. The army has been moaning from its substance for years. It cannot be repurchased because the money flows into the many foreign operations or into non-refinanced border security operations. The Minister of Defence is unable to obtain the necessary resources for his army, which carries out border security operations, because the SPÖ is giving this to the Minister of the Interior. That's the truth, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are the bankruptcy administrator of this federal army, Mr. Minister – if not even worse, the causer of a negligent Krida.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3357	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3405	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot to be criticised about the German army, but the negative image that you, Mr Scheibner, and especially Mr Jung, have painted here is of course very, very much exaggerated. We have top-qualified officers, sub-offers and very well-trained primary defence officers. [[Abg. Scheibner: That doesn't dispute anyone!]] That is why the German army is very well able to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it by law to the fullest satisfaction. [[Call to the liberals: Is that his farewell speech?]] Whether it concerns border security, rapid assistance in the event of disasters or other humanitarian actions and international operations, there is a very, very, very much praise in this regard. Our soldiers are highly professional for a secure Austria in the broad sense and also in the service of peace in the world, colleague Scheibner, and successful on the road. I really want to stress that. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is completely absurd, Mr Scheibner, to submit to us that we have started the discussion on the establishment of a professional army. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was you who started!]] I should like to remind you that in recent weeks and months, leading representatives of the ÖVP have made a very clear statement to a professional army and the Federal Minister has also shown his sympathy and his positive attitude for a professional army. [[Abg. Scheibner: It was you who started! Cap, chief in the newspapers!]] They, ÖVP and FPÖ, are speaking together today of a volunteer army, but they mean a professional army. There were also appropriate words to that effect. We have said about the SPÖ – and this surprised you all – that we are ready to talk; we are ready to talk when it comes to ensuring the safety of Austria – secondary with which weir system. That's what we're holding fast to. We are willing to discuss with everyone in this House when it comes to increasing the efficiency of the Austrian federal army. In the broad sense, we are looking for the conversation and are ready to discuss it here without any shyening. It must simply be ensured that we guarantee the safety of Austria. We stand for a safe, credible, efficient and functional federal army – secondary with which military system. In this respect, we have no problem with having this conversation with you here. However, we say yes to this federal army, and therefore we agree that everything will be done so that the Austrian federal army will continue to function and perform, so that the Austrian federal army can continue to be able to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it by law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] It certainly speaks a lot for a system of volunteers, ladies and gentlemen, with an enhanced professional component while maintaining the militia. We have repeatedly voted for the militia, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: But broken! Speaking for it, against it decidedly!]] There is much to be done to adhere to the general obligation of military service, as the benefits outweigh. For all things, the issue of financing, ladies and gentlemen, is of central importance. Whatever the system, it is necessary to ensure the functioning of the system as a whole. This must be financial, ladies and gentlemen. All the proposals that come to this end, in particular from you, from the FPÖ, require an increase of billions that we must make available for the defence of the state. I am also in favour of trying in the medium term to increase the national defence budget by 1%, but this is not going from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Scheibner: What have you done for the last ten years?]] We need to get 22 billion schilling at the moment. It is possible to ensure the security of Austria and a credible national defence with this budget, if one is to deal with it sparingly, economically, expediently and effectively. Federal Minister! I would ask you to take our suggestions and proposals seriously into account in your considerations so that we can jointly ensure credible national defence. We are on the road to success, ladies and gentlemen, and we will continue to do so together.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3510	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3532	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The nineties were a particularly moving time for the Austrian federal army. Under the responsibility of Federal Minister Werner Fassleven, many professionalization steps were carried out in the army. Just a few examples of this: There were significant improvements in quality in the training of basic defence officers, the sub-offenders in the army sub-official academy and in the military academy as the University of Applied Sciences for officers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl]] Internationalization is also to be mentioned. It is worth mentioning the entry into the NATO "Partnership for Peace", the creation of a command "International Operations", more professionalism through the introduction of military persons in time instead of the system of underprivileged time soldiers at that time – by the way, an invention by the Minister of Freshweights – and the training of officers of former Eastern states in the State Defense Academy, which will soon gain university status, as well as the new army integration, which has brought more quality and less quantity. In addition, many procurements were actually lost to the government partner. I only call the steering weapons, mobile radar systems, the Mech package, scatter protection vests, combat helmets, training simulators and computer systems for all executives. Again, ladies and gentlemen: Much has been achieved, but a number of urgent purchases are still ahead of us, such as the radio, for example, as a single communication system for all types of weapons, the renewal of the truck fleet, modern pioneer bridges, transport aircraft for military operations and for disaster aid in Germany and abroad, as well as new airspace surveillance aircraft corresponding to the state of the art. [[Abg. Main: That's what we heard ten years ago! Nothing has happened to this day!]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that over the next four years much more money will have to be spent on the German army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What have you done in recent years?]] 1 per cent of the gross domestic product would be the minimum, which must be for everyone – for everyone! – take national defence and peacekeeping seriously, be a major concern. [[Abg. Scheibner: 13 years of reduction in the army! reduce 13 years, destroy 13 years!]] On the current discussion, Mr Scheibner: Obligatory or professional? – Anyone who wants to change the Austrian mixing system between professional soldiers, basic military servants and military soldiers towards a professional army with a volunteer military must see one thing – that was also clearly stated in the TV discussion "To cause": All the models discussed so far – with a realistic force of troops – would be twice as expensive as the current system of general military service. [[Abg. Wabl: Natural tax!]] This is the reality, and this also applies to the model of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Wabl:... with her life! We take away the age of 18!]] In my opinion, for a serious discussion of another military system, two conditions are essential. Firstly, the integration of Austria into a European security association, of course within the framework of WEU and NATO. Secondly, the financing guarantee for a greater proportion of professional soldiers and for an incentive and reward system for military soldiers, which is actually worthy of that name. The model with 15 000 professional soldiers, proposed by the SpÖ spokesperson Josef Cap, can be read in the "profile" issue of the 5th edition. July 1999 – or the status of 13 000 men or women as a professional army proposed by the spokesperson of the Greens – seems to be just about: Who offers less? – are proposals that are not only naïve but that are limited to negligence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser]] Ladies and gentlemen! Election on the back of soldiers is campaign against the security of Austrians. We're going to fight it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3638	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3660	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is clear that the Minister of Defence and the spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party are giving a positive result here on the military policy of recent years. Federal Minister! It is also clear that generals of the United Nations NATO or UN Generals who have met our soldiers abroad who have to lead our soldiers abroad give a positive result, a positive assessment because the performance of Austrian soldiers abroad is undisputed. This achievement of our soldiers in the country, in the field of training, in the field of disaster aid and assistance or, if you want to, in the daily ministry is also undisputed and excellent. It is necessary, I believe, for this House to be recognized here in this House and to be recognized that the framework staff of the Austrian Federal Government will carry out its tasks willingly and with much commitment, but unfortunately it must do so with inadequate means. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! A criticism of the German army is not a criticism of the officers, officers and soldiers, but a criticism of the political leadership of our army. As you mentioned the findings of the foreign generals about the state of the federal army, I take the findings of your highest general, the General Force Inspector, who gave an interview this week in the magazine "FORMAT". I quote from it: We live on the substance. We survive with what we have, but we operate a substance consumption that really brings us to the border. There's nothing left to eat. - Quote. This is the finding, Mr. Federal Minister, your highest general, the General Force Inspector, and he really knows the situation of the Federal Army. The General Force Inspector also points out: We are suffering from a significant investment stock. – That's what he says about the federal army's inner state. – I already see a danger that the army and the cadre staff will say sometime: Now it's enough for us, we're not going to be fooled anymore. The mood is still positive, but I'm concerned that sometime it's turning into fatalism. - Quote. I also see this danger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and it will therefore be necessary for the Federal Government to take immediate steps to reform its position on security policy and on military policy, because the military and defence policies of recent years have not been a scroll in this federal government. Our country's security has been neglected – to the detriment of our country! I would just like to mention three examples on the basis of which it is clearly understandable that the Federal Government has failed in connection with the accession to the European Union in recent years. Austria has not benefited from accession to the European Union because we would have had the opportunity to join the Western European Union, we would have had the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities of membership of the European Union and to accept this political union in a security-political way. – But this has not happened! The Federal Government was also unable to submit an option report to Parliament. The Socialists have no better idea than to stick to neutrality at any price – and your party, Federal Minister Fassleven, nothing more than a party decision to implement or enforce any price. [[Abg. Wabl: That's the best!]] – It would have been important, however, to have a broad political debate on this, to reach a political consensus in order to be able to decide clearly and in time on the issue of security policy and the related perspectives. Further: We have experienced a failure of two military reforms. Deficiencies that have been known for years have not been corrected and arms policy objectives have not been achieved! And here we are dealing with the arms policy objectives of two military reforms! There are still problems in the field of man equipment, air forces and army motorization. That, Mr. Federal Minister, was or have been the failure of recent years! I therefore believe that an absolute reorientation of the Austrian security and defence policy would be a command of the hour. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need and what we liberals stand for is the integration of Austria into a European security structure, into those security structures that are now being created and built up so that the European Union can actually carry out its security tasks and responsibility on this continent. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You want to abolish the army!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In the European Union, security and defence policies require emancipation from the United States and thus also an appropriate instrument for the implementation and implementation of our security objectives. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] What we need is also a new military system, a military system that is modern, which demands...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3729	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3745	... will be just. That, Mr Federal Minister, should have been guided by a long time ago, and that would have been a task already done in the past! In any case, I am not so optimistic to assume that something you should have done in the past will succeed in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3775	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fassleven, I am glad that you have also found time to take a position on the issue of German army, since you are always so busy with the arms trade. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's a mess!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, now just one point: You should look at your intermediaries better, because the Carinthian dealer, who is supposed to "screw" the Nazi weapons into the USA, has not received a license from the Chamber of Commerce of Carinthia. Anyway, I'm trying to figure this out. Ladies and gentlemen! I have found in today's issue of the "standard" a beautiful title that fits exactly into this debate. Although this article deals with the discussion of universities, it says that young people are careful to deal with the lifetime of young people... Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to Mr Maitz, you have the feeling that he wants essentially pragmatized officials who are rolling behind NATO with more or less tanks. – Mr Scheibner no longer knows exactly what he wants, because accession to NATO has been a little wavering due to the results of the EU election. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't understand! That's it!]] It's probably going to be after 3. October, if a coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ is to occur, you will need a reorientation. I think that we will then have a new "Bärental orientation" and then Mr Scheibner may again be able to cut off a new tactic as to how to bring it all under the roof and in the compartment. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Wabl speaks for the SPÖ!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are essentially two options in this context in Austria: The one – Minister Fassleven has formulated this, once you want to see it positively – is a strong Austrian army in NATO. In NATO there are well known too few tanks, far too few bombers, much too few aircraft, much too few missiles and, above all, far too few soldiers. – A strong Austrian army in NATO – that is what Minister Fassleven wants. On the other hand, however, as I mention the greens, but also large parts of the SPÖ, I think: We should develop the role of Austria as a neutral country positively, and that is, Mr Maitz: [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The SPÖ spokesman Wabl!]] What Austrian soldiers have so far best solidarity in common – not in isolation, but in common! – in the case of UN peacekeeping operations worldwide, further development, strengthening and improvement must be made. And what remains of residual functions in Austria is basically disaster attacks and the good training of people who voluntarily choose to take up this profession. This is why I am telling you, because the question of compulsory military service and the volunteer army is very crucial. Let's think about what society we're in: Is this still an old, authoritarian society in which young people can simply be forced to provide certain services by decree? – This may have been historically justified, but I believe that it is not allowed at the threshold to the next millennium, because how do young people, just because Mr Maitz is imagining, he needs a strong army, pragmatized staff still to do so, so how do 18-year-olds automatically have to perform a forced service for six, eight months or more?- Oh, my God! – Such a service may be excellent, bad or even good, depending on which Federal Minister for Defence there is or which instructors you have – I hope Mr Jung rarely has to do with it. However, the question must be asked: Today, in 1999, why should a person be forced to do a service that would be desired by other people who would like to do so? [[Call to the ÖVP: You have no prejudice at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We currently have the situation that FPÖ and ÖVP want to put a lot of money into the federal army: in expensive interception hunters, in tank packs; 13 billion schillings please! This is going on again in the field of social and environmental peace! [[Abg. Scheibner: It's about protecting our soldiers!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Scheibner, on your demonstration today with these two helmets: If this House were to follow your military policy, we would have relatively quickly "screwed up". [[Abg. Scheibner: You've got the shredder up!]] [[Abg. Boy: No, not at the hairstyle of the Wabl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens support the abolition of compulsory military service and the establishment of a volunteer army. That is to say, there is one part, namely the time soldiers – by the way, that was a good idea of the then Minister of Freshenschlager – and there is the other part, namely the voluntary military and, of course, professional soldiers, which already exist in the German army. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That would be a solution. This would strengthen the position of Austria as a neutral state...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3952	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3967	... and would – I was just about to say the last half sentence, Mr President – intensify the international credibility, especially that of Mr Fassleven and other ÖVP representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4019	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4041	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One of my previous speakers has the date 3. October mentioned – a very interesting date in several respects: It's for the 4th. In October, we heard something planned, already from a reliable source, which was originally stated for mid-September, namely the beginning of the deployment of Austrian troops in Kosovo. So far, it's always called: Mid-September. – Now you hear at once: 4. October, exactly the day after the election! – So you really can't make that anymore! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So you wait exactly for the day after the election, because you can't really believe that you're going for neutrality and against the fact that Austrian troops are going into NATO's lap, when you can read media at the same time, or watch television, how the Austrian soldiers in Kosovo are already moving in the lap of this NATO. 4. October! Please think the Austrians are so stupid that they cannot recognize the contexts and not to see through them! – You can already imagine the direction of the election campaign. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But because we're already in Kosovo: At a time when everyone who is concerned with these things knew that we actually had too few soldiers for deployments – Burgenland at the same time as Cyprus, Syria and Bosnia and so on – it was to be heard from the mouth of the Federal Chancellor! –: There will be 450 Austrian soldiers abroad, namely in Kosovo – and that, although everyone knew that they are simply not being driven up! Now one strives to make them firm about annoncens and on similar "original" paths. – The results are modest. It is heard that there should be only a very small percentage for the time being – and now we are considering moving: moving from Syria, Cyprus, parts of the Austrian troops stationed there to Kosovo, which, of course, can become critical, yes, dangerous for the security position of the soldiers remaining in Syria and also in Cyprus. All of this is done in the background of the term "ungigated army". The expression does not come from me, it does not come from any other liberal, no opposition at all, but it comes from someone here on the government bank, quite recently spoken of by Foreign Minister and Vice-Cancellor Schüssel, who spoke of the "famined army". [[call at the Liberal Forum.]] And he must know what he is talking about, because he will probably have the information from the sources of origin within the government and within the government he belongs to. Since we are talking about this "hungered army" when there is a mirror fighting about whether or not one should be for a stronger professionalization just of the army, I may recall here once again that we already have some kind of volunteer army. Whoever today does not have to serve, does not serve. There are a number of ways to slip through, also at the economic level. There are just too many professions – I do not want to mention them now, so as not to get into a fight on a side-track – in which it is common for their representatives not to get in. Then there is the problem of civil servants. And there are not as many as you should actually believe; most of them are not for any reason of conscience, but because they are simply made available to them from organizations in which they are already active: Go to civil service, then you can move on with us. After all, we need 34 000 groundmen a year – even after the new/new military division – to be able to fulfil the tasks, but please get "hot" 29 000. Whoever is with the army today is actually voluntary with the army! We must recognize this, and we must also have the courage to express it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The militia, ladies and gentlemen, which is a really great establishment, to which we all, in one form or another, have been mutilated in the last months and years or years until the inaccuracy. There's almost no more of them! There have been military officers, sub-officials and batches who have spent a lifetime devoting themselves to the task of defending Austria, who spent weekends, holidays in their possible field of application, hetographed letters, which read: You have to say goodbye immediately, and you have to surrender your equipment until a certain day, inconsistency if they have to be punished for any administrative penalty provision! – Not a word of thanks, but a threat with an administrative penalty. If the person concerned has paid 800 s for replacement for any sweater he lacks, he will receive another hetographed letter – like everyone else – weeks or days later, which reads: You can also buy all the stuff you have at home for 500 s so you don't have to bring it back and we have to get rid of it! – You have to keep an eye on all of this...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4133	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4148	... in the case of the question: Do we want to land with the professional army or not? We have a volunteer army, please! And: The militia was ruined! That is what we know – and we also need to express!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4182	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Tychtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4211	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! "Professional State Defense for a Safe Austria" is the title of this current hour. I mean, only "professional state defense" expresses what it's all about. A professional who wants to exist in everyday life must change, adapt to the circumstances and strive to make the most of what he is able to do with his means. I mean, just the national defence is something that has to take two things into account: on the one hand, professionalism by well-trained soldiers, who are also willing to fulfil more than the actual mission, which brings the inner attitude, to do something for our Republic. Secondly, I believe that the task of all the political groups sitting here in the House is to create the conditions for the soldiers to be able to do all this. As we are now, as it were, in the run-up to an election campaign: In my opinion, we should largely exclude the German army from this discussion. The question of the defence of the state is, please, one another – and not one another. Our national defence would be particularly good for a national consensus on this issue. I would also not like to point out some of the problems that may arise in the daily operation. Especially in the course of my work as one of the chairmans of the Federal Heir Complaint Commission, I was very often confronted with such things. My previous speaker pointed out the problems of foreign operations. We must also be very careful to ensure that those men and women who declare themselves ready for this service can rely on the following: first of all on the protection they must have guaranteed through us, and secondly on the contracts to be observed. I refer specifically to the question of payment. It cannot be assumed that, in a very short time, one recruits volunteers who declare themselves ready for this service, who sign this, go into service, but then not only have to realize that the payment is very slow, but often they do not even know exactly how much they actually get for it. Please don't get a billing warrant. This too, Mr Federal Minister, is something where we need to meet our soldiers more and say: We stand by our word, and we do so with all our heart. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point that is very important to me: Mr Ofner said earlier that it was becoming increasingly difficult to recruit volunteers. – I believe that the following idea, similar to the Danish model, would be quite superior for the future: Okay, you're well-trained, you're valuable, a professional for us, and that's why we give you a certain financial incentive over a certain period of time, but expect from you the obligation that you, when we call you, actually come! – I believe that this is an important point, but it is missing today, something that also presents us with difficulties if we really depend on these soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been here in this House for 18 years and have been a member of the National Defence Committee for 18 years, and I therefore think I can say: We have all tried and we have also seen that changes have taken place, one better, the other less successful. Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you, who will continue to belong to this House, to make every effort to ensure that our soldiers can rely on our support. On this occasion I would also like to thank all those who have accompanied me in these many years, who have been good interlocutors to me. I would also like to thank the Bureau of the National Council, with you, Mr Federal Minister, for your service, ladies and gentlemen, but also for all the staff in this House who have always supported me as a folder in my work. [[in the direction of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Fassleven]] I wish you every good and good success for the future work for the benefit of our fellow citizens, for the benefit of our Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4298	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4327	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tychtl, you will also be accompanied by the best wishes of our group, because you have always been a sincere fighter for the interests of national defence. Good for the future! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Furthermore, if you allow me to say this, it was professional, what you have offered here during today's current hour, quite contrary to what Mr Scheibner has best done. Mr Scheibner, you should not have taken over the staff of your predecessor, because apparently they have mistreated the subject to you today. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have such a comic concept for a professional!]] If you are talking about "Professional State Defense for a secure Austria" and then you say: We need 40 000 professional soldiers, then you should have said that this costs at least 20 billion schillings more and that is probably like "good" funding like your childcare check in Carinthia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who wrote your concept?]] In addition, Mr Ofner has said that there are too few reports on Kosovo's use. That's what I can call a few numbers. More than 2,000 interested parties have reported. You know... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You have the numbers from the dream book!]] [[Abg. Young: There are the passersby there too!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You know as well as I do that not all are suitable. There are now 598 people left of these voluntary reports, and 400 are required. So much for the truth that has to be said here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But there are passersby there too!]] Mr Scheibner also said that we are currently spending 0.8% of the gross domestic product on national defence. I mean, if you already want us to ensure that the state defence is financed, then I want to become small and correct it: It is God's thanks to 0.85 percent, and these are at least 4.5 billion schillings more than you have claimed. You should say that right here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Is it enough or is it not enough, colleague Amon?]] Of course, we are also in favour of increasing it, but it is also a matter of having to do with it in a serious way and not in the way you said it could be increased by 20 billion schilling from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who has been responsible for this for ten years?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is responsible for the state defense?]] That is not realistic, but that we reach a percentage, for which we are committed, and I believe that this objective is also attainable. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: For ten years, you have been the Minister of Defence!]] Furthermore, I am not going to let what has been said here by several speakers of the opposition, namely that there would have been no professionalization. That's simple and just not right. There have been a number of professionalization steps. [[Abg. Scheibner: This speech did not even deserve the Fassl evening!]] I am thinking, for example – Mr Maitz has mentioned this – of improving training in the field of basic defence workers, I am thinking of the Heeresakademie, I am thinking of the establishment of the University of Applied Sciences, or I am thinking of our foreign operations, which are also praised internationally in a very special way. Stay with the truth! Our soldiers are committed to peacekeeping. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course! Despite your policy!]] And that's good. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But professionalism is not yet given!]] We should not use security policy as an election beater. We do not oppose the fact that security policy is an election topic. Of course you can talk about positions, and you should do the same. It is good if the voters have the opportunity to differentiate who is here in a serious way on the subject and who does not, as you do, but only heats up by vote. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about your model? What about your funny model? Where's it going?]] The SPÖ is also not entirely out of duty here. It is interesting, of course, how you try to maintain neutrality further than holy cow. I would therefore like to quote someone who, I do not think, like Mr Cap, has any doubts about this, and last week in the "Press" I found out the following – I can quote from the "Press": "The expert who is considered to be SPÖ close to the SPÖ shows" – Professor Öhlinger – "is that Austria has reduced neutrality, above all as an EU member, to a mere alliancelessness. Since the Treaty of Amsterdam, Austria is not always or only permanently neutral." This is a fact since the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam. Here, too, you should stay serious. We are trying to achieve a serious security policy, which has the substance, that we first want to clarify the issue of the collective security system, the security union, and then to continue to discuss and discuss the issue of the military structure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4559	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4581	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about a professional national defence of a neutral state, then we must first and foremost talk about a peace-proof foreign policy, then we must first of all talk about neutrality policy. But I don't hear this. I only hear that it must be upgraded that the army must be more professionally equipped and professionally trained, that it must be organized in a professional way and must also be managed in a professional manner. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is true, but if it is always true that most of the issues – from the security policy on the German army – are to be spared out of the election campaign, I ask you: What are you talking about with this government? – If you need to save all that, where you haven't done anything, then we could lock the hut, then we don't have to say anything more. [[Abg. Wabl: That's what happens.]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, the German army is poorly equipped – and the first speaker has also shown this in an example – that it is true that training in the Federal Army is inadequate. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, that it is only an invention of the opposition that the German army is being organized bureaucraticly, and, ladies and gentlemen, it is still politically managed in the areas of leadership. It is not the case, as honourable Member Tychtl has demanded, that things be pushed forward together, but the Federal Army is increasingly being managed politically. Now I know, of course, that the Minister of State refers to this and says: This is the invention of the opposition. There will be elections! What are they supposed to say? Again: The fact that it is poorly equipped, Mr Gaál, has already explained to Parliament that there is a lack of training in the German army is not an invention of the opposition, but it is contained in all possible Court of Auditors reports and can be read in them. We have also discussed this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. There, however, the Federal Minister did not respond in such a way that he would have said: Okay, here's a mistake, here we have to make adjustments, but the reflex was to criticize the Court of Auditors and say: The Court of Auditors has no competence to criticize this! No one on the part of the Ministry has responded to the Court of Auditors' criticism that the rules of prayer are too superfluous and would not be implemented in actual life, the result has been: We need to adjust that!, but everyone said: This cannot be assessed by the Court of Auditors. Therefore: This is not an invention of the opposition, it is something to be read in the Court of Auditors' report. The Court of Auditors' report, ladies and gentlemen, at least in the current case, also shows that much remains to be done in the field of procurement. There is a lack of basic planning. That – ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the next point – does not mean that no paper is produced in the Federal Ministry of Defence. On the contrary! I brought you that too. Publication sheets 1 and 2 of 1997, Bulletins 1 and 2 of the year 1998; 700 to 800 new pages of bureaucratic regulations in the German army each year! [[The speaker will keep a thick book up to date.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They must also be busy with something!]] Not in order to remove the old, but in addition, stacked. That's what's added. And then one wonder, when it is said, that they do not have time to fight anymore, because they always have to fill in lists, because they always have to read in the publication paper what has been made new by the Federal Minister. That is why it was also clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the reform of the army – with which I come to political management in our federal army – did not change the relationship of troops and leadership in favour of the troops – also something which the Court of Auditors noted, but instead led to the distribution of the army in 1992 – in order to say it salopp – to reduce the number of Indians, the number of heads continues to increase. That, Mr Federal Minister, is something which has not been turned off from your side, apparently should not be stopped, and it is alarming that to an increasing extent the federal army and especially the leadership structures of the Federal Army are increasingly to be attributed to the ÖVP, while the Ministry of the Interior on the other side of the SPÖ, which is why it is also upgraded with noise attack, grid attack, more equipment, more people – because there is no staff stop there – and more. Here one sees that the commonness that is required is politically little, but that Austria is divided according to the colour theory, that it is also divided into two different parts of the party in external and internal security. And that's something left off. That is why – last point – ladies and gentlemen: The Liberals demand and demand that we move from the existing Trinity of neutrality, military duty and the old German army towards a new Triad, which must be said: a European security architecture, a volunteer army in Austria and the integration of an Austrocorp into a European army. These are the measures we believe will address the challenges of future security policy. With the colour teaching and with the proporz, however, it will not go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4636	The Federal Minister is speaking. Same time of speech. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4657	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to reply very objectively to some of the questions raised. Firstly, I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Wabl, who spoke of sales. I would like to stress here once again: I myself had a stop in December of last year, before the European Union directive entered into force, for the sale of light weapons in the Federal Army. [[Abg. Wabl: After the criticism of the Greens!]] Exports are not the Federal Ministry of State Defense, but the Federal Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for all types of exports. I would also like to give you, Mr Wabl, a copy concerning the company Mathè. [[Abg. Wabl: That's just not true!]] ==References== In June 1999, the Ministry of the Interior issued a notice, an export permit for the company Mathè over 60 machine guns of the brand "Kalaschnikov". These are certainly not from the stock of the German army, but they are simply part of the arms and equipment trade that is being carried out in Austria. And like the stormguns you have always incriminated, the Federal Ministry of the Interior has of course to possess and determine whether this is exported or not. [[Abg. Wabl: What about the Nazi weapons from the federal armies?]] I'd like to make this available to you so that you can judge it objectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What about the Nazi Weapons?]] I would only believe that one should leave the polemics aside and put the concern where it belongs in fact, and that is undoubtedly another ministry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A number of other questions have been raised. I would like to say to Mr Jung, who has established a link between the pandour on the one hand and the tank package on the other: Of course, the 68 Pandur, already in the Federal Army's operations today, have been ordered for a long time, as you should know, Mr. Deputies, before the completion of the Mech package. They were a prerequisite on which we could build because the first experiences were already there. That is to say, the first Pandur tanks were already in use in the Austrian federal army before the tank package was discussed with the Leopard et cetera. I am also aware that in this case we have undoubtedly made an important decision, also in the interests of the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I recognize this because, of course, the army in the border regions has an important economic function. [[Abg. Young: With non-usable equipment, Minister of State! Tell me that too!]] The Federal Army is the second largest employer in the Waldviertel. This is the case in many border regions. [[Abg. Boy: They're distracting!]] Not only do we ensure security, but it is also an extremely important economic component to which we stand. We are therefore also convinced that we have enabled an Austrian company to start production, and we know today that it has been internationally accepted that several armies have already purchased this product. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also means that we must live with childhood diseases, i.e. with certain shortcomings that occur at the beginning of the test of a new model, and that we must draw the consequences from it. [[Abg. Young: A non-swivelling tower is a childhood disease in a tank, Mr. Minister?]] I have always known that the decision on the entire wheel tank family is of course only to be made when these shortcomings are removed. You, Mr President, and others of yours have often asked me to give the supplement. [[Abg. Young: We didn't know the device was not operational!]] I have always said that the award will be made if all the technical questions have been resolved. Not sooner and not later. And so it's here. The second: Mr Ofner has raised the question of the use of our troops who are now going to Kosovo. I would like to say that the security situation in the Balkans has undoubtedly met enormous demands on the German army in recent years. We are not only in use now in Albania, we were down to a security stake two years ago, we are in Bosnia, and we are going into the next deployment in Kosovo. This Kosovo action is also a commitment which, from its dimension, is greater than the others. In comparison, for example, the number in Bosnia or the first Albania quota is about double the quota, in view of the still sincere missions, not only in the Balkans, but also in Cyprus, on the Golan and elsewhere. The position is as follows: According to yesterday's report, we have provided 598 volunteers for this mission. They will be patterned, part of which will be unsuitable. [[Abg. Scheibner: Half! Tell me!]] Not all positions are as occupied as we wish. That means we're going to continue our promotions. But there is no reason at all to suspect a different course of action at once than is the case somewhere else. Next point: There will be the first Austrian soldiers – and if I say, the first, then I mean not a pre-command, which first of all explores the place, but the first to perform certain functions there – to an extent of 70 to 100 already go down in August. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The chancellor will not allow this! The chancellor wants the 4th. October!]] A very large part will certainly go down in September, and the last part, after the Swiss have come to us, will then go down in an integrated form. Because we have to say one thing: Not only are we going down with the largest quota so far, but we are also going down with a quota that also has lead function, i.e. leadership function for the first appearance of the Swiss and also for a Slovak quota. I see that as an enormous proof of trust when the Swiss give their soldiers to our care when they entrust them to our leadership when they first use Switzerland in the field of international activity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps this is also a sign of the trust we receive from other countries. I want to prove this briefly with some data. In 1995 372 foreign soldiers – officers and officers – completed training in the Austrian Federal Army. Do you know how many of them are today? 1 377 were already in 1998, after more than 500 and 800 foreign soldiers had completed their training in Austria in 1996 and 1997. Some 1,400 soldiers are currently completing their training in Austria because they are convinced that we can offer the best conditions for their training. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Please ask for the final sentence! Time's up!]] Just as our soldiers go abroad to benefit from the experiences of the others. This is not only an enormous proof of trust but also a proof that security can only be organised together in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4855	Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4885	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about national defence, if we are talking about military service, we must also talk about civil service, because civil service is a military service, and without civil service we would look sad in our Austrian social policy. They seem to have forgotten or still do not want to know that the work of civil servants in social institutions, in the rescue sector, in the transport of sick persons, in the elderly, in the assistance of the disabled, is an essential service in the hospital, which no one else in our society takes over for this hunger wage. That is why it will not be taken over and cannot be taken over, because today it is 40 hours and more per week to let people work by 2,000 s a month, which is really a state that is not socially viable. I am pleased that we are talking about a volunteer army, because then there must also be voluntary civil service. Voluntary civil service can only be done if you make this more random by paying decent salaries to men who want to provide civil service, ensuring social security and pension rights, and also paying unemployment insurance. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You will not get 2 000 S or 3 000 S per month, but the civil servant must receive at least 12 000 S net plus housing costs; only then will you find people who are willing to work in the social field. However, the votes of the ÖVP say something quite different: They want compulsory social services. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That's not how it is. It is not responsible if you believe that you can give up the social responsibility of this federal government by pressing people into the social service, although you know that social services are a highly professional area, which does not want anyone to do and can do. The social sector must not be built on voluntaryness and on voluntaryity – who wants to do it, who can afford it, to do it. Ladies and gentlemen! All of you, especially you, Mr Fassleven, now have to talk very quickly with the representatives of the countries, because they will be the countries that need voluntary civil servants. It will be the countries that will need the money to get voluntary civilians to a lucrative salary. But you do not seem to want this discussion because, as I have already said, you want to introduce, instead of the federal army, the compulsory obligation to social service. Tell people this, because this irrationality you want to break from the fence here is inconceivable in a society as we have it in Austria and incompatible with a social policy as we need it in Austria. Disabled people, old people and people dependent on civil servants and civil service institutions are not a game ball and no playing field of society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It must be offered professional assistance, and it is not a question of people being extolled in the social service. This is the wrong policy to reject. There is no discussion of this because we are not allowed to talk about water with forced persons in the social field. I just can't do that.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4943	No further words are available. I therefore declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4968	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the written communication distributed in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5103	I declare that the Members of Parliament, Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades, have asked for urgent consideration of the written question put to Mr Oellinger prior to entry into the agenda, concerning 'Euroteam'. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5127	I would also like to say that Mr Graf has requested that the Financial Committee report on Dr Graf's motion for a resolution 252/A concerning the amendment of the Banking Act be sent to the Committee on Financial Affairs for a period of 14 years. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States It is in this context that of five Members according to § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a short debate be held on this request for a time limit. As the urgent question has just been raised, the short debate will take place following the urgent question and the vote will be taken immediately. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5152	On the agenda itself, I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 4, 5 to 7, 8 to 13, 17 and 18, 20 to 23, and 24 and 25 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. The Bureau will then proceed in this way. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5179	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of today's debates as follows: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 150 minutes, ÖVP 140 minutes, Free 130 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 90 minutes. On this proposal the National Council is to be found. I therefore ask whether there are objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This is the one-bright decision. 1. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Constitutional Act for a nuclear-free Austria (2026 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5215	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Kostelka, who expressed the wish to put the clock at 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5243	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr President. Austria is an international model in dealing with nuclear energy, because we – let me formulate it salopp – left before we got in. There is no problem in Austria with the use of nuclear energy: neither in the production of electrical energy nor in the field of transport. There is an exemplary international liability law and, moreover, a ban on weapons of mass destruction in the Criminal Code. This is, however, an example at a simple legal level, and we have therefore for years been trying to establish a constitutional-level nuclear barrier law aimed at anchoring a ban on nuclear power plants in constitutional law and also at prohibiting the stationing of nuclear weapons in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We have failed in Article 1 of this law, which we decide today, because our coalition partner was not prepared to say for one and a half years with all the clarity that there should be no stationing of nuclear weapons in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: But, Mr. Klubobmann! Jessas!]] I asked four weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be a rethinking at the Austrian People's Party, and that has now been done. The motivation for changing one's attitude is indifferent. Whether it is the fear of the voters or of respect and respect for the voters is indifferent. We will now adopt such a law which could not be adopted at the beginning and in the middle of the legislative period. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Despite ÖVP!]] It is a unique law in Europe that makes it clear that Austria is not in any way in agreement with a problematic use of nuclear power and that we are taking a first step towards a nuclear-free zone in a problematic nuclear zone in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, this article 1 of the law, to which you all will agree today, is not a fleeting part of the Austrian legal system. At the time of the adoption of the decision, it is not a matter of putting it into neutrality, but an integral part of our legal system, which we will pay very close attention to and which will guarantee social democracy in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted by this law, for it is an exemplary law. I'm allowed to go to Andreas in particular. "Paul" Khol thank you very much for this. There has been a miraculous change in the political position, and in this regard a comparison with Saul, who became Paul, is appropriate. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, right!]] But I admit, in this context, that not all is a comparison, that is, because Saul became a glowing advocate by the fanatical opponent of Christianity, but one cannot be accused of Saul and the later Paul: that he had ever claimed to be the inventor of Christianity – something that Andreas "Paul" Khol is not quite right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Do you read the Bible now?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's see that a little generous. Let me look up at Luke and let me say that in heaven and also in the National Council there is more joy in finding a lost sheep to the flock than over 182 righteous ones. I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, in the circles of the nuclear opponents. But I can only draw your attention to this: That doesn't end on 3. October, but then it starts first.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5343	Mr Dr. Khol came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5365	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we are today adopting a law on nuclear and nuclear-free Austria. If, for this reason, my colleague Kostelka takes refuge in the Bible, this is a desirable and beautiful side-by-side success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was a long way, ladies and gentlemen, to this day when we will adopt this Constitutional Law unanimously – I assume. And in doing so, many Sauls have become Pauls to stay there. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who else?]] There was a referendum on Zwentendorf in 1978. That's where the fronts love different. There the Social Democrats were the Sauls, who wanted to congratulate Austria vehemently on a nuclear power plant, and I also believe – in order to use another, not so Biblical, but also religious proverb – that referendum has shown that God is writing on straight lines. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Koppler: The ÖVP Upper Austria!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: The ÖVP Lower Austria!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was at the time a vehement follower of the peaceful use of nuclear power, as many in my party, but we all voted against Zwentendorf. Why? - Because Kreisky said at the time: Whoever is for Zwentendorf is for me! I remember having elected together with the president of the Industrial Union at the airport, and we both said: We are actually for nuclear power, but we cannot choose Kreisky! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By 30 000 votes, the right decision was taken at the time that nuclear power plants were not necessary for Austria. The Austrian trade union, the union I belong to, the ÖGB, initiated a popular desire in 1980, signed by 422,000 Austrians. [[Abg. Wabl: Khol has always put matters before personnel policy! He was known for that!]] This popular desire, supported by the then socialist Chancellor and socialist vice-chanc, was a popular desire to finally lock up the Zwentendorf nuclear power station. Fortunately, too, this popular desire has failed. I am glad that we are finally making nuclear power-free today in the Austrian constitutional order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is the truth!]] How does it look with the nuclear weapons? I am glad that since the end of the Cold War two thirds of the nuclear weapons stationed in Europe have been mined, and I hope that we are still experiencing the fact that there are no nuclear weapons in the world. That must be our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we must not forget one on the Austrian island of the Blessed: There has been a decision by Communism under Breschnjev to station 500 SS-20 nuclear missiles in Europe. On the other hand, there has been the famous NATO double decision taken by the Social Democratic Chancellor in Germany, Helmut Schmidt, against the will of his party and against many social democrats. The NATO double decision stated the following: If the Russians are stationing nuclear weapons in Europe, NATO will be stationing equally many nuclear weapons. The result was that the Russian missiles were not stationed. The American, the Pershing, were also not stationed. This passage of the West as a sign that he does not capitulate before Communism, before which Marxism, Mr Kostelka, was the beginning of the end of the era Breschnyev, and we should not overlook that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I thought you wanted to be serious!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria was nuclear-free, Austria is nuclear-free, Austria will be nuclear-free. Since Chernobyl, since the nuclear reactor accident in Chernobyl, it is also widely thought in the world that no one can account for the use of a nuclear weapon. The damage a nuclear weapon would cause to the civilian population is not responsible. Chernobyl has shown that all the theoretical players are irresponsible. I believe that the Austrian National Council should show today by its decision that the future is nuclear-free throughout the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5509	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5530	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! Let us not continue to talk about Saulus and Paulese, but talk about the role of the "Khol head" in this debate. Mr. Klubobmann! It was very amazing when you read the newspapers in the last few weeks: For example, the "Kronen Zeitung" can be seen that it was the "Khol-Kopf", which now triggered this great leap in the anti-AKW-Haltung of Austria. Khol and Head have established that after more than two years – exactly after two years and three days – this decision is being made, and it was Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander, who has been fighting for so long that this Federal Constitutional Act is passed in the form that is now in place. Was it so, Mr. Khol? – For two years, did you have to force Mr Kammerlander to reach this five-party agreement? Was it really the way you let the Austrians know about the newspapers? – This Khol Head Humanity, which you consider to be in this question, is disgraceful, Mr Klubobmann! I would like to say that clearly and clearly to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is disgraceful to want to attach something to the flags, although in truth you have spent months not to say exactly the opposite of what you have done for years in the newspapers. They have tried to delay this for as long as possible. That is the truth on this question, Mr Khol and Mr Kopf. This must be expressed clearly and clearly here. Only in view of the forthcoming elections have you obviously found yourself ready for a different attitude and now support this five-party proposal. That's what it looks like! Khol-Kopf and Januskopf are the characteristics of the ÖVP on this issue of anti-AKW policy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have obviously been late, but they realize that it is in the interests of the Austrian population and, above all, the will of the Austrian population that there is an absolutely nuclear-free zone in Austria. But you've needed a long time to do that. This has also been demonstrated in the preparation of the Excursion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to Prague, which will then be discussed. Obviously, it's always just the election date that moves you to a rethinking. It is precisely the previous story of the second request, which is also being decided today, which has not been mentioned by you both in your contributions, that the ÖVP has learned a lot during the last few weeks, because the preparation was still marked by the fact that you wanted to bring a very soft attitude into the communiqué which we have finally presented in Prague, Mr Klubobmann Khol! The SPÖ is already much more skilled when it comes to suggesting to the Austrians that it is the anti-CFC party. Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate and Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Prammer constantly manages to produce good anti-atomic stroke lines together with Greenpeace and Global 2000. This, at least I must admit to you, Mrs Minister, in Austria, gives the impression that you are doing something in the field of anti-atomic policy, but only in Austria, but only in the case of those who are superficially informed. Unfortunately, this impression of God has been wronged by those who are superficially informed, Mrs. Minister. I will give you the proof on the basis of the five-party request of 10. In July 1997, you were so well acquainted with what we were all so proud of. What is the balance of efforts to implement all that is contained in this five-party proposal, Mrs Federal Minister? – This is, for example, a question of education and education at international level. The application reads as follows: "The representatives of the Federal Government are invited to act in all relevant EU bodies, as well as in the financing and research institutions at international level in the sense of Austria's negative attitude to nuclear energy." Mrs. Federal Minister! It will be time for you to tell us how it is about the financing of Chmelnitzky and Rovno. What is the Austrian position at EU level? – I could tell the German media that Chancellor Schröder and Minister of the Environment Trittin had come to devil’s kitchen on the Kiev visit. What is the Austrian position on this? What have you done so far to prevent this financing of Chmelnitzky and Rovno? – I want to know about you here and today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The application is – I quote – as follows: "The Federal Government is invited to work in all relevant EU bodies for a substantial reduction in the Euratom Framework Programme, in particular in the field of the development of new reactor lines, and at the same time to increase funds for non-nuclear energy research." Mrs. Federal Minister! How does the activity report look? . I can only report on the ÖDP that it has always managed, especially in the EU Parliament, to ensure that the EURATOM Treaty is changed in terms of content. Unfortunately, you have succeeded in doing this to this day. It is also necessary to maintain this clearly and clearly when talking about this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mrs. Federal Minister! What about the activities to reduce existing and to avoid additional nuclear installations close to the border? What does it actually look like? So far, where have you made your position clear and clear abroad? Where have you been so far? Which federal governments did you speak to, and what result did you bring home? When we were from the Committee on the Environment in Prague, we could see that the Austrian position on Temelin – as you always want to explain to us that it is known – was not at all known there, Mrs Bundesminister! Neither the Environment Committee nor the Ministry of the Environment is aware of what you want to believe in us here. It was the visit of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which helped to make the Austrian position clear and clear for the first time abroad, and that this Austrian position was also clearly and clearly reported by the media in the Czech Republic for the first time. It was really funny to note that Mr Zeman spoke for the first time and calmed the Czech population in the form he said: That is just the opinion of individual parliamentarians, which has nothing to do with the opinion of the Austrian Federal Government! Minister! You should already think about how it is possible for a Mr Zeman to claim such a thing in public if you say here that you have already done so much preparatory work. What do these preparatory work look like? – Call the dates and mention the results of the talks you have conducted in Prague, Prussia, Sofia, Bucharest, Kiev! Where were you? – Come on You get out of here today and tell me when you were where and what result you achieved! I think you will have to keep your comments on the question very short, Mrs Federal Minister! I'm convinced. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all my colleagues and all the political groups for having been reserved for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to discuss Austria's position for the first time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] Of course, and it was an initiative that was taken from Upper Austria, that is to say here too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Not from the ÖVP – that is the perverse – but from all parties represented in the Upper Austrian Landtag. Mrs Kallat! If you would represent Mr Pühringer's position here, then Austria would be much further. But this is the problem of the People's Party: in the countries hü and here at the federal level hott. That's your problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This leads to this unbelief which, Mrs Kallat, along with your ÖVP, has finally produced this Janus capacity, as it appears today. But it's not just in nuclear power issues. Let's think about the drinking tax. That's where we'll take her away. We'll keep her there. The attitude of the ÖVP is always the same. You're talking like the listeners just like it. Line is not to be seen, even in the anti-CFC policy of the ÖVP is not a line to be seen. This has once again been clear and clear. What the SPÖ is doing, that is to say, talking big here and then not taking action abroad, is not a success to be expected either. It is reserved for parliamentarians to take the essential steps and take the course. That is why, ladies and gentlemen from all parties, it will not be enough if we always politely ask the Federal Government to do something else. We from Parliament are able to commit the Federal Government, and if we commit them to represent the nuclear power lines accordingly, we will be able to make progress.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5656	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5678	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have always considered the anti-atomic policy in Austria and the Austrian position to be a success story. Today I have to note that it seems to have been a happy result that Austria represents an anti-atomic policy. My impression is that this is reflected in the current policy at international level. Today, by Mr Klubobmann, MEPs, Mr Khol, to learn that the political-personal aversion to the German chancellor at that time was crucial to voting against the start-up of the Zwentendorf nuclear power station is a matter of historical value. Because at this point it has never been so expressly said, according to my knowledge. [[Abg. Smoking callat: But all the newspapers have written it!]] – The newspapers write a lot. When it comes to women's policy, ladies and gentlemen, if we keep the Chancellor in mind that he would not have implemented anything here and he would have promised it in the newspapers, he says: It's in the newspapers, I never said that! It is interesting to note that policy, which is in particular operated by the EIA, is apparently already split between the national level and the international level. This does not give me any positive hope for the future, but at least there must always be the effort in this House that you will come to a common outcome. For if you look at the request that is to be decided here today – it will also be decided by the votes of the Liberals – then you see, this is a request that is in fact also in line with the status quo of Austrian politics, which corresponds to national politics. I am surprised to see that one goes here and mentions in § 2 of the proposal for a law that, in the future, energy generation through nuclear fission, just as it already stands on a simple legal level in the Nuclear Locking Act, should be maintained, but that we have not been able to take the nuclear fusion into this area for years on a liberal basis. It was not possible, in particular, to achieve by the EIA, to agree that nuclear fusion is also not a variant of energy generation. This is something that seems to be said at international level, also by the ÖVP, in the opposite way it is done in Austria. The SPÖ, arrested in its coalition efforts and its coalition promises, is unable to demand and say this essential feature, which would constitute a consistent anti-atomic policy in Austria: All right, then let us take a majority decision in this House and see if not only the nuclear split can be taken, but also the nuclear fusion can be taken. – That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind: There seems to be a lot more to be done in this area. ==References== In November 1996, the European Parliament was asked to vote on a request to amend the EURATOM Treaty – a founding Treaty of the European Union – in order to ensure that there was no further expansion of the core power and, in fact, to transform all institutions into safeguard institutions. This request was voted by the votes and only by the votes of the EIA-EU Members. As a result, it was claimed that it was a mistake. I would like to believe that I am just wondering why no further advance has been made to this day by the now largest group in the European Parliament, namely the Conservatives, in order to change the Euratom Treaty. This has not been done so far, and we have missed a historic opportunity. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also a major feature of the anti-CFC policy made by the Austrian Federal Government: You always miss historical opportunities. As Mrs Bundesminister has said, it is not just a change to the Euratom Treaty that is such a missed historic opportunity. I was also surprised when we were with a delegation from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Czech Republic that the position of Austria at least was not clear among the parliamentarians. It is true that what has been said here by Mr Schweitzer, namely that only the Austrian delegation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was apparently able to clarify the position, at least in front of Parliament, as you have always claimed, in the Czech Republic. It has even happened that the chairman of the Czech Environment Committee said that he wanted to see the original paper and not just the translation of our communautaire, because some of the hardness is contained in the formulation, which he has not known so far. I would particularly like to warn you about this, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the future, the Federal Government is so ashamed of this issue that it seems that it is happening internationally as if one would demand something very peculiar and, on the other hand, does not consistently move forward that, for example, all the costs associated with the use of nuclear power will in future also be required in a European nuclear liability directive. It is true that if we were to calculate all the costs of the use of nuclear power – from the beginning, from the construction to the demolition of nuclear power plants and to the final storage of the fuel rods – no one in this Europe would be building nuclear power plants. We must therefore see that the construction of, for example, the powerful nuclear industry in France also has a military component. Mr Khol, in particular, said today that we would have to make a change in the production of nuclear weapons, worldwide. – In view of this, one must make such a change in the European Union, and here the Austrian Government can make a preliminary contribution. However, ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary in particular for the government groups not to represent at international level two different positions, that they represent this position with the consequence that it appears to be in Austria, because it is the desire of the population to represent an anti-CFC policy, also at international level, and then we will continue to take decisive steps. If you continue to be as perceptive as you have been, then that doesn't make you feel good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5713	The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5735	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. There is something like a national consensus on nuclear questions, I have heard it all over the years, but in recent years it has been increasingly and ever more exclusive of the question of nuclear energy and, in fact, only in a narrow sense, of the extraction of energy, of energy production, and of other issues of nuclear energy and energy production. – That was one aspect of this national consensus. The other aspect was that the major parties in particular were constantly calling on them to: We have a nuclear barrier law, and that's enough. I am also glad – I would also like to thank everyone here – that it has succeeded in coming to this Constitutional Law after a very long, laborious work and after a long, laborious journey. I think that this is an essential step forward, that we have on the one hand a constitutional law, and that on the other hand, this Constitutional Act is a comprehensive law, including not only energy generation facilities, but above all the issue of nuclear weapons, the stationing of nuclear weapons, the transport of nuclear weapons and the infrastructure that would otherwise be necessary for these nuclear weapons. - That's gratifying. It naturally saddens the joy – that was also said by my previous speaker – to get along with it again in the post and 20 years later, which was the motivation at that time, why it came to this No in Zwentendorf, but on the other hand, in my opinion, it sheds a characteristic light on the circumstances, as in Austria obviously matters arise. However, an essential step and an essential starting point was certainly the referendum on Zwentendorf in 1978. Other major events for this change of opinion – also mentioned above – were certainly the following accidents both in Harrisburg and Chernobyl. Today, after two or four years of discussion in this House, it has succeeded in including nuclear weapons in a comprehensive way in a nuclear blockage law, and that for me at least – and that has already been said by one of the previous speakers – is something like a personal success, because for us as a green person, one of the priorities and the emphasis in foreign policy was the question of nuclear weapons, the question of Austria's attitude in this field of a nuclear-free world. We have submitted applications, we have written letters to the Federal Chancellor, to the President of the Federal Chancellor, to the Foreign Minister, and it is gratifying that this consensus has come to be reached. But there are, of course, some drops of wormwood, and I also want to list them. There is a drops of wormwood that the fusion is not contained in this law. There are the drops of wormwood that the question of nuclear deposits is not sufficiently precisely defined and clarified. There are also the drops of advertising that, although the issue of transport is very clear on the one hand and that the international restrictions on international contracts, but do not imply a policy of security, which has been in the room for a long time, it is precisely this issue of international contracts that I think will be critical in the near future, namely, what is going on under "international contracts" and what kind of transport is going on through Austria. What does that mean, in my opinion, when I say there are some drops of wormwood? – That means – above all, to the ÖVP and SPÖ –: You can't rest on the laurels! – That seemed to sound like a little bit in your speeches: Oh, how good we are, what have we done in these questions over all 20 years! Now we have a nuclear constitution law, and that's how we put the crown on the whole! – That would be completely wrong and missing! They cannot rest on the laurels, they must always re-adjust this law, they must look at precisely these areas in the coming years, and they must carry out corresponding innovations and adaptations to the specific situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there is one more thing I would like to give you, also for the next legislative period: It cannot be enough by Mr Klubobmann Kostelka saying: We have taken a unique path, we have an atomic-free zone in Austria. – It cannot be enough, and that is not enough, because it is not only a nuclear-free and nuclear-free zone in Austria, it is above all a nuclear-free zone in Europe, and that is in steps I estimate that the nuclear-free zone is the more realistic and, in a more foreseeable, shorter period of time, realizable than the nuclear-power-free zone in Europe. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] If we share this assessment, I believe that we should put all our efforts in this direction, because there are a number of countries in Europe, a large number of countries that do not have nuclear weapons, but are very likely to have nuclear power plants. If we are moving step by step in this direction and are going to consider that we are first of all setting up a nuclear-free zone as an objective and thus coming into a nuclear-free zone, then that is the right way and the right effort, starting from this national consensus in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, let me say the following: I have not seen this issue of the nuclear-free zone and the nuclear constitutional law in the narrower sense only as a question of the constitution of Austria, not only as a question of environmental policy, but also, above all, as a question of foreign policy and as a question of international relations, as a question of how much Austria positions and introduces itself at international level in international bodies on issues of foreign policy. In addition, there is another two-way appeal to Members: firstly, an appeal towards not starting from this path. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol! They do indeed support this in your words, but at the same time, in the explanation of how it came about, let a little bit of that you can actually recover something from NATO's nuclear deterrence doctor, because at least at that time it prevented the Russian nuclear weapons from being stationed. This may have been justified for then, but it cannot be for today and it cannot be justified for the future. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right! That is why I have said that nuclear weapons are not allowed to use any more!]] It is therefore important to put all efforts in this direction, at all levels. For me, this is also an interesting question of foreign policy, because it is one of the few areas on which the honourable Member can contribute in terms of foreign policy, on which the honourable Member can have a very constructive, decisive and decisive effect. I am pleased - I do not want to hide this - that in autumn there was a decision by the United Nations on a comprehensive agenda for a nuclear-free world, in which a very clear package of tasks is formulated. Austria voted in favour of this agenda at the time. At the time, I had doubts that, and that is what I have said to the media, we will be able to get from this international participation, from this international commitment, actually to an nuclear constitution law. Mr Khol! Whatever motives we may have succeeded in getting to it, it is very pleasing. I thank you once again and consider it a little as a personal success of my years of efforts at this level. [[Approved gesture of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5791	Mr Oberhaidinger has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5813	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You really don't learn from this high house! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Lifelong learning!]] If we had known, Mr. Khol, that your defensive attitude, your foot on the brake, was influenced by the lasting respect of the German Chancellor Dr. Kreisky, who died many years ago, then we could have really helped you! [[Lively cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] But you never said that. Only today have we learned why you had your foot so hard on the brake. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I am really glad that you have succeeded in dissolving yourself from this respect and in going along with us for so long with all of us. Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the issue of anti-atomic policy in this House so many times that, as I believe, I do not have to mention in particular that the security of the population has the highest priority for the National Council and also for the Federal Government. I am pleased that the safety of nuclear power stations close to the border is given a very high priority. I do not want to mention separately the requests that we – all five parties – have decided to make here. The motion for a resolution that we are going to adopt today also - and I am pleased to say that this was a decision in the Committee on the Environment - expressly mentions the motion for a resolution on the nuclear liability regime which has already been drawn up. This motion for a resolution also addresses the visit of the delegation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in Prague. Unfortunately, I have not been there, but I have taken the reports of those who have participated in the visit, that our Czech neighbours first and foremost make economic arguments apply and that they do not particularly like one: to be taught and reproved in Oberlehrmanier. Mr. Karl Schweitzer! You criticized Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't criticize her! I just said what she did!]] I would like to remind you that the basis for this visit was the almost finished action plan which the Federal Government took on 6th. Thankfully decided in the Council of Ministers on July. In this we have found enough clear statements that have enabled us in Prague to adopt a clear, unmistakable attitude. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's right! But that's what she has to say there!]] - Okay! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the motion for a resolution, you will find some really crucial points in it. It covers, for example, nuclear safety. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to go into it in detail. It also refers to the Euratom initiative, and I hope as you do, Mr Schweitzer, that the MEPs of the EIA in the European Parliament will at last take this line and not fall over as they did a few years ago, which unfortunately affected a very narrow decision of God negatively at that time. Competition and State aid law is also addressed and implemented accordingly. We are also addressing the internal electricity market and the environmental impact assessment in this resolution. All these are factors that will be taken into account in future accession negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Socialist Group welcome the action plan of the Federal Government. It is the content of our motion for a resolution, and I am pleased that we will vote on this motion for a resolution today with the votes of all the political groups in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5887	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5908	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Let me say very briefly at the beginning that I am sorry that, as far as you are concerned, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Schweitzer, the forthcoming election season is clearly leading to personal diffamation in this House too. The word "coal capacity" should have nothing to look for in this house, as I think it is about the personal integrity and dignity of people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why? I talked about Khol and head! Two names of Members! Khol and head!]] I am very sorry that the next election season obviously leads to the parties of this House forgetting it. But let me come to the real issue. I think there is really no one here in this House who can assign the role of Saul, because I voted against the start-up of the Zwentendorf nuclear power plant in 1978, out of full conviction and not because of Kreisky. In the years that followed, I have repeatedly proved, sometimes even with great difficulties, that I am opposed to the use of nuclear energy, both in my own country and in our neighbouring countries, in Europe and worldwide. I have not only talked about it, but I have also worked on it for many years. This was most intense in my time as an environmental minister when it came to taking up the fight against Mochovce, and when most of my time was used in the EBRD for lobbying this nuclear power plant in the last months of my term. Finally, the credit application was not granted either. Let me, however, make the allegations of the clubman Kostelka and the claims of the clubman – no, not Klubobmann, but it may still be – of the environmental spokesman Schweitzer of the FPÖ briefly lead with facts ad absurdum. I mean, for example, the claim that the ÖVP would like to keep a back door open for NATO accession. You can read it, Mr Schweitzer. There is an ÖVP Party Board Decision dated 14. In July 1997, the Austrian People's Party, in the run-up to the Option Report, clearly advocated NATO accession and in which it is explicitly stated, Mr Deputies, that a stationing of nuclear weapons on Austria's territory is not to be foreseen and that this is also essential to negotiate. Here we can prove black on white from the past that the claims of the SPÖ and the FPÖ simply and simply do not vote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I already know that it hurts the SPÖ clubman, Dr. Kostelka, that the strategies from the "War Room" of the SPÖ-Spin doctors, with false claims – not to say lies – have now dissolved themselves in the air to suit the coalition partner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not pleasant, and I understand that one is beating around it, but I mean, ladies and gentlemen – and now it gets serious again – that anti-atomic policy... – That was very serious, but I can unfortunately take the ideas of the SPÖ-spin doctors or thank God not seriously, for otherwise it would hurt. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let me say here that the anti-atomic policy of Austria and the consensus that exists in this House, both at government and at party level, is far too important and too serious to try to beat party-political capital from it in a small way. Ladies and gentlemen! We have enough to do in anti-atomic policy. Mrs. Minister is also called on to oppose the Temelin and Mochovce nuclear power plants... – But, of course, she has also announced that she wants to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] We are now waiting for the actions, and I am glad that they are successful because this is a success for this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that this matter is too important to create party-political capital from it in a small-scale way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5981	Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6002	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have already said it very, very often in this House, but I would like to repeat that there has been a common policy in Austria for many years, which is clearly opposed to any form of use of nuclear energy. There is this common policy, and it is also important to continue this common policy. That is the Austrian way, and that is what has made us strong in many very difficult cases. No one, absolutely no one, who bears political responsibility is allowed to do so: no person, no party, no national council, no federal government, no country day, no state government. We can only work together here – everyone in the place where it stands – and set out our policy accordingly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schweitzer! I have also said here in the House on several occasions how pleased I am that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is going to the Czech Republic, because it is necessary for parliamentarians to talk to parliamentarians because this has been done, Mr Schweitzer. I was often enough in Prague, and vice versa also the Prague colleagues, the Czech colleagues, were with me to hold talks at government level. I have actually found it for the highest time that the parliamentarians, in particular, are taking up the talks about it, and I think it was really your task to get in touch with the other person and to intensify these contacts. We have a lot to do about Temelin in the next few days, not just me. The Action Plan shows this very clearly. If this were my task alone, many would not understand our anti-atomic line. I believe that there really must be an order for everyone to come to the conclusion we expect: on the one hand, to a non-atomic Europe and on the other hand to this Federal Constitutional Law. That is why it is so important for this to be decided today. Ladies and gentlemen! The list of what lies before us is long. In fact, I am also referring to the Austrian initiative at European level in the area of Euratom. However, I have also heard with great joy that the new Belgian government is also planning a probably long-term but clear exit from nuclear power. The list of those countries, which see that there is no future in this area, is getting longer and longer, and we need to use this opportunity to bring about change. I say that a few years ago, because of the attitude of many governments, this would not have been possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of Slovakia is one that will become particularly intense in the near future. There must be a very hard and clear documentation on what Austria represents as positions. At the same time, I would also like to say, Mr Schweitzer: Austria is the only country in Ukraine that is decided against the K2/R4 loan. The Minister of Finance has only ever represented this and no other position. We have also strongly – the Minister of Finance and, in part, Mr Bartenstein – repeatedly recruited our European counterpart to consider this position. If you look at the German discussion today, you can see that this critical question always falls on fertile ground. We all do not know how this decision is going, but Austria is active, Austria has been active and will continue to remain in the future, ladies and gentlemen – especially on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we also have to ask ourselves many questions about how we will actually meet Ukraine, for example, what prospects there can be for Ukraine, for example. This should not leave us cold either, but it must be tried from the European level and from the Austrian level to deliver concepts. That is why the Federal Government's action plan, which will soon also be your action plan, says that we will and should enter into partnerships, especially energy partnerships with many countries. All of this doesn't always have to be very big. I think it is very often also a matter of creating small initiatives and essential initial inflammations. Ladies and gentlemen! This way out of the nuclear force is a very tough, very laborious way, but I am convinced that it is the right one that is the only right way. And if we look at the change of attitude of some countries in Europe, we also know that we have acted correctly, that we must support all those states that are also on this path, and that we also have to put our further priorities there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6066	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6088	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We know that 1978 has taken the decision against Zwentendorf – for whatever reason; I do not want to explain this here. This was a rejection of the use of nuclear energy, a refusal to use it to generate energy. Since then, the line has developed into an official Austrian anti-atomic policy, which is ultimately represented by all parties. If one asks the citizens, then the impression is that the government parties and the opposition parties alike are in agreement in this anti-union. It shows a very simple picture: a No to nuclear energy, no to nuclear power – a feeling that is only too understandable after Chernobyl. But let me take a slightly more differentiated view, referring on the one hand to anti-atomic policies in the country – as they are communicated to the citizen – and on the other hand to anti-atomic policies, which are represented against neighbouring countries, towards other countries. Let me call this Mochovce, Bohunice and the current theme of Temelin. To Mochovce: It has been a liberal demand for years that accession negotiations with the Slovaks should only take place if the Slovaks definitely declare themselves prepared not to put Mochovce into operation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We all know what happened: Federal Chancellor Klima has more or less limited itself to carrying out diplomatically friendly chattering with his colleague Mečiar. We also know the success of Mochovce's operation and that Bohunice, one of the most dangerous power plants in the immediate vicinity of Austria, was not closed in exchange with Mochovce. So that was the "success." Now to Temelin and to the process towards the Czech government, which was discussed here in the house – as elsewhere – very often controversially. The liberal position was in this case also a clear and clear accession negotiations only if there is a clear no to complete and commission Temelin and if the Czechs are prepared to give up Temelin – a junkim! [[Complaints with the liberals]] The liberals have remained here alone with this of their demands. You have addressed us a lot because of this request, but today, Mrs Bundesminister, we have a Quasijunktimierung, namely that accession is only achieved if an international security check is carried out and it is concluded positively. Otherwise, the Czech Republic would have to refrain from accession, or there should be no negotiations. It should also be noted that a change of mind has taken place on the part of SPÖ over time. If you look at your statements, Mrs Prammer, this change of mind in the SPÖ, as I mean, is very well understood. In the case of Mochovce, for example, you have mentioned the fact that, in the end, commissioning would only allow for an assessment of the safety of this power plant. That means you've still asked: Put this nuclear power plant into operation! It is only then that a safety assessment can be carried out. In my opinion, that was inconceivable – in order to express it in this way. Mrs. Federal Minister! In connection with Temelin, they have spoken about the fact that the Czech Government is unable to deal with this issue with a pointed finger. That's what happened on the 10th. March of this year. They also said: We don't want to bother ourselves with the nuclear exodus. The nuclear exodus is not an issue. It should not be so that we always argue with the raised index finger. Today, Mrs. Federal Minister, thanks to God, it sounds different. Today we stand in this Quasikunktimimation. We can follow you in this position and support you. Ladies and gentlemen! But the role of the ÖVP, which my colleague Schweitzer has already mentioned, is more than questionable. The EIA is – and you have to be told again and again – it has prevented the content of the Euratom Treaty from being changed. Only the ÖVP bears the responsibility for this! Since the Bible has been strengthened several times today, let me also say that the Bible quote: "Lord, forgive them, for they do not know what they do." In your case, it certainly does not apply. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But on you!]] I would also like to tell you why, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. It cannot be said that a former Minister for the Environment of the ÖVP knows nothing, namely Marilies Flemming, who is sitting for you in the European Parliament, or the "voice of Austria" as she has been put on. It did not vote for the Austrians when it came to changing the content of the EURATOM Treaty. They were supported by Rübig, Habsburg and Co. You knew what you did back then, and you know it. The whole thing is certainly to be understood in the context of the fact that you are subject to certain constraints, namely those of the EPP, the European People's Party, and not the interests of the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a wish, namely, that the national consensus on anti-atomic policy, which is to be documented by today's decision by, as expected, all five parties will be filled with content, so that the political line represented within our country, within Austria, is confirmed by content also to the neighbouring countries and at international level.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6144	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6166	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, not only is incense supposed to rise, today not only the pathos should determine the discussion, today the metaphors from the vegetable garden should not shape the debate, today not the criticism of the small-carrier should dominate, but by this today's decision – the constitutional rank for an atom-free Austria – I believe that, on the one hand, a final stone and on the other, a new building block for Austrian nuclear policy should be placed, because this nuclear policy must certainly continue to be pursued. I would like to take this opportunity to note that it took 21 years for it to be 21 years, until the will of the Austrian people, the will of the population here also bore constitutional fruit, so that the nuclear-free Austria is truly determined in the constitutional order. It took 21 years, and many steps were necessary. One thing, above all, was necessary: ever again green pressure, green requests, green debates in plenary and committee, repeated advances from environmental protection organisations and also from the Greens here in Parliament. I believe that without this pressing role, we are not here today, and without this pressing role, there would not have been this Saul Paul experience either. But I would also like to thank you again for this back, which the ÖVP has given itself to. But I would also like to ask the question: Why have we not really made nails with perfect heads in this Constitutional Law as a whole? Why have we failed to maintain the ban on nuclear fusion? Why have we also refrained from prohibiting the storage and conditioning of foreign nuclear waste? Why did we, third, refrain from prohibiting nuclear transit in general? – These are shortcomings that are also subject to this Constitutional Law. I would also like to ask myself, above all, why there has been a change of roles here for the first time at the end of this period of government – Mr Ellmauer will later make a request based on a five-party decision – why the government gives the precept and Parliament draws on the role of acclaim, so to speak, the role of the grateful assessor and the grateful follower. That is also the question for me. In itself, it has always been the duty of Members to represent the people, to move things forward and to put the latte forward. We also laid the latte. There are many five-party decisions that went beyond what the government did after that. But today, at the end of a period, it is more or less a decision that only sanctiones and acclaims what the government has already decided – partly very superficially and partly very flossily. I really wonder if there could be another way, and I would also like to point out this other way. I would like to move forward with the quality of the nuclear policy of Members and therefore, on this occasion, to put forward a motion for a resolution with two points. This motion for a resolution specifies the general position which will then be presented by Mr Ellwall, with the following two points: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please, we need the driver's role! We need the step-maker role, and we want to take it back today. We don't want to leave this to the government. We see ourselves as a representative of the population, who has decided on Zwentendorf very far-sightedly. That is why we want to concreteize this today and really do nails with heads. Unfortunately, I have to say that I am somewhat missing from this Constitutional Law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to make a brief replicate on you, Mrs Minister. They have certainly pointed out that it was also the responsibility of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in Prague to explain the position of Members. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Prammer.]] Yes, certainly, but we would have expected that we would not partially encounter ignorance or ignorance, but rather prepared negotiating partners who already know the Austrian position, at least in rough ways, because of the travels of the members of the government. You can certainly argue that you have not spoken with the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but with your fellow ministers. I'm sure I'll take it from you, but it could and should have talked. I think – in order to advance consensus – that it is always necessary to take both steps, both government steps and parallel to them, the actions and initiatives of Members. I hope that our visit to Prague will result in a counter-visit in Vienna in autumn, during which we will be able to express the Austrian position, especially the Members, in terms of Temelin and in terms of construction stop. The word "construction stop" is also missing in the proposal that Mr Ellmauer will present later. However, this is a very essential point for us also in an interim report which must be put on nuclear policy at the end of this legislative period. Again: We have managed to reach the constitutional rank. We have not yet managed – this is a major task for the next four or eight years – to provide the border-nearer nuclear power stations with closing plans and construction stops. This is the real task that we are going to do in the autumn and with which we certainly have to go in many, many EU negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6267	Mrs. Dr. Moser! They have tabled a motion for a resolution on the concreteisation of the anti-atomic action plan of the Federal Government. It is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. You have tabled a second motion for a resolution. However, you did not propose this. It concerns the reduction of nuclear imports and has not been proposed. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: In my enthusiasm I forgot to submit the request!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: May I apply it?]] Yes, please, but quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6307	Excuse me, in my enthusiasm, I forgot about the second area. Mrs Colleague, you will allow me, so to speak, for collegiate reasons, to place here a decision and a concern which is, above all, one of the Members of the Parliament in Upper Austria, including the members of the EIAs. These are the reduction of nuclear power imports:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6371	This request has now also been read and is therefore in conformity with the Rules of Procedure. He's on trial. I have a word message now. It is from Mr Ellmauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6396	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October 1978 the Austrian people opposed the use of nuclear power, the Austrian Federal Government pursues an anti-atomic policy. This is not only a reluctance to use nuclear power peacefully for the purposes of energy extraction, but also a general effort to prevent risky handling of fissile material and also to encourage other countries to refrain from using nuclear power. Of course part of this anti-atomic policy is a non-atomic Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of this law is that Austria should be free of the dangers inherent in nuclear power. This Federal Constitutional Act is another important step in a whole series of activities that Austria has already set towards anti-atomic policy. I would like to thank the Federal Government, especially the Minister for the Environment Bartenstein and the Foreign Minister, Dr Schüssel, for their vehement action against Temelin and Mochovce at European level and for raising these issues at European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It will be important to implement the legislative measures that we now decide to implement also in our concrete policy and to continue to implement measures that are in line with this. In this context, I should like to mention the Federal State of Upper Austria. Upper Austria is the only state to have its own commissioner for nuclear power stations close to the border. Because of our joint initiative and education work at all levels, it has been possible to raise awareness not only in our home countries, but also in neighbouring countries, especially in the Czech Republic. We need to strengthen this in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is now also a study on the development of electricity consumption in the Czech Republic, which proves that Temelin is not necessary for the energy supply of the Czech Republic. There are much cheaper and more environmentally friendly alternatives. Other experts also believe that Temelin is an energy-political nonsense. Even the top Czech atomic lobbyist, Industrial Minister Gregr, admitted that the Czech Republic is already unable to sell 10 percent of its electricity produced and that the launch of Temelin will result in capacity surpluses of more than 1000 megawatts. ==References== In June of this year, we traveled to Prague in the framework of a parliamentary delegation from the Environment Committee, which was established on the basis of my initiative, and once again held talks with representatives of the Czech Parliament and the Czech Government. It has been clearly stated by the Austrian side that, in particular, compliance with safety standards in the negotiations on the Czech Republic's accession to the European Union will be an important theme. I am opposed to a junkimation, Mr Schweitzer, as the Freedom Party demands, because it is not an international form of conversation culture and is not a target in the matter either. However, we have made it absolutely clear that the Czech Republic's possible accession to the European Union must be ratified by all the parliaments of the 15 Member States. We have also made it clear that no country can join the European Union which does not comply with the security standards. After all, eight Czech ministers voted against Temelin in the Czech Council of Ministers, and this shows that our intensive convictions have borne fruit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== In June 1999, the Federal Government called on the German Government to establish basic building blocks for a European nuclear liability regime and to move forward with the development of such directives within the European Union. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6481	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Ellmauer is, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. There is no mention of this, and I therefore conclude the debate. – I ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting. We shall first vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 2026 of the Supplements. This act has constitutional status and is therefore to be treated in accordance with the qualified quotas provided for in the Constitution. I therefore first note that the necessary presence of the members of the National Council required by the Constitution is given. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to a positive sign. – That is unanimous. This draft was adopted unanimously, in the presence of the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. We shall now come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft is also unanimously adopted at third reading, even this time in the presence of the two-thirds majority as provided for in the Constitution. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Dr Gabriela Moser and comrades on the concreteisation of the Federal Government's Anti-Atom Action Plan. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a positive signal. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall vote next on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades on the reduction of nuclear power imports. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr Mag. Schweitzer, Mag. Barmüller, Dr Gabriela Moser and comrades on the implementation of the Action Plan for the further Austrian anti-atomic policy in the European context. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 197.) 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1613 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Protection of Personal Data (Data Protection Act 2000 – GDPR) (2028 of Supplements) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Insurance Contract Act 1958 (2029 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1830 of the Supplements): Federal Law on Federal Statistics (Federal Statistics Act 2000) (2027 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6610	We now come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mr Krüger as the first speaker in the debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6638	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Three minutes for three laws, that's not much. The workings of the coalition make me formally forced to keep my debate in the Stakkatoton. First of all, a few comments to the Data Protection Act 2000: This law is to be supported, because its content is positive. The fundamental right to data protection has been raised in constitutional order. The catalogue of fundamental rights has been extended by the fundamental right to data protection. There will be an agreement from my group – but not from § 42, a provision of law that regulates the composition of the Data Protection Council. This provision of law, similar to that of the Statistical Council, similar to that of the Radio Commission, similar to that of various other commissions, is borne by a Wagenburg thinking of ÖVP and SPÖ, which aims to largely exclude opposition parties from the formation of will in these bodies. In order to regulate the composition of the Data Protection Council, there is a smooth rejection of our liberals in the second reading. To amend the Insurance Contract Act, I must say: It is certainly to be seen as very positive that at the last moment there has been a complete compensation. We therefore believe that we must join this joint motion. Thank God the insurance industry, despite its notable close relationship with ÖVP and SPÖ, has failed to carry out a major noise attack on policyholders and at the expense of all those affected by insurance cases. These are not only direct contractors, but also unknown third parties involved in an insurance case, for example by a traffic accident. The amendment is approved on the basis of an all-party request. On the Federal Statistical Act, ladies and gentlemen, also a few words: There is a rejection by my party, which is particularly justified by the fact that a mere re-establishment of the Statistical Central Office is now taking place in a Federal Institute "Statistics Austria" and that, above all, the red-black post office celebrates joyful origins. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the areas of the Austrian economy or elsewhere in Austria – including in the Bundesanstalts – there have never been that there should be two Director-Generals for one and the same Bundesanstalt. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you're making fun of yourself if You decide this: For one and the same institution after red-black color teaching two Directors-General! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How stupid do you want to sell the public? That's incredible! This is a red-black post-chacher, the vanity is done enough. What's that mean by Director-General? – In general, one is the chairman of a board of directors and generally holds the board of directors. Dr. Zilk has already said to the red-black color teaching at the time: She's really puking! You can only join this puke. [[Abg. Parnigoni: If it goes, not in here!]] This is an incredible compulsion that you give the Austrians with it, and I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, for giving so impressive proof of an unbridled poster to the detriment of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6679	Mrs Dr Karlsson, next speaker, spoke. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6701	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! We are discussing three draft laws now. One is the same as the draft legislation we voted on earlier, a bill which shows far into the next millennium and for which there will still be many innovations, because the technological development, which will make new data protection regulations and laws necessary, cannot yet be foreseen. It changes the basis and what is to be protected at a pace that has surprised us all a little. I would now like to introduce the following amendment, which concerns the rights of workers in terms of data protection: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the Insurance Contract Act is concerned, I too am very happy about it, which I have already mentioned in the Committee, that we have been able to bring about a positive change based on a broad consensus. It also brings an improvement in the right direction insofar as the data need to be reported to the data subject. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I would also like to make a motion for an amendment, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Furthermore, the Federal Statistical Act 2000 is still under discussion. It is a question of disseminating. We agree. In particular, I would like to stress that according to § 58 – contrary to some of the provisions where this is forgotten – the Federal Equality Act for women also applies to the employees of this office now distributed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a good news, and I hope that even in the next legislative period, a detainee or a detainee will always pay close attention to these things. Ladies and gentlemen! It is this last week of my Parliament after twelve years in this House – half of the time I was in the Federal Council, the other half in the National Council – and I am totally out of politics. Don't look too early! August Strindberg once said: If you're annoying me, we'll see you in my next book! – This is something I intend to do. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Why are you looking at the SPÖ?]] I've looked at you first, just, you've trampled! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I am already pleased about the positive mention!]] I would like to professionalize a hobby – I hope with success – namely the writing of criminal novels. Raymond Chandler once wrote about the 1930s: You can only write more about politics in the criminal novel. – I thought this was a complete nonsense at the beginning of my activity. I'm not so sure anymore today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] I would also like to continue to devote myself to my scientific work. I have a scientific support for a women's employment project. At all the farewell interviews, I was asked again and again: What would happen? Would you advise a young Member or a young Member? – My answer was three things. First – a very personal advice –: Make a quick reading course! – It is very often laid on a huge volume of paper, and then it is simply about reading the whole thing across. For example, on the topic of "Women in the Federal Heir" it was so. One thought: The four volumes won't read through the Members anyway! There were also things – such as the intensification of military penalties for the present-day servants – that had nothing to do with the question of women in the army at all. With the help of my club and with the support of the SPÖ speaker, I managed to remove this point quickly. But you have to be able to read across it. My second advice was: Don't be afraid! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We've already done this!]] Don't be afraid to impose or ask your opinion. It's for free, but here and there. Don't be afraid to ask: Why can't you do that? And to that I must say: There's the big hammer and the little hammer. Little hammer means: This is not possible by law, and the big hammer is: It is not possible, Madam President, to do so in a constitutional way. It turned out, however, that both of them were possible, for example, in the enforcement – as Mrs Brinek also helped very much – the creation of the ban on the sexual harassment of students in the university study law. My third advice is: Make good laws! – Although inline skates in the fashionable outfit may bring a little more media in the short term, but to make good laws, simple and understandable, that is what we are for. It is true that the law making of Members is often seen as an eccentric exception, but the parliamentarian law on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines is a good example: a page clearly understandable to all, easily legible. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the representatives of the Liberal Forum and the Agg. May. Stoisits.]] Good laws and Members who are seen to enforce something: This will increase the reputation of this House and strengthen democracy in our Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6867	The two amendments tabled by Mrs Dr Karlsson to the Data Protection Act and the Insurance Contract Act are sufficiently supported and included in the negotiation. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Allow me to make a few personal comments following your speech. One thing connects us: That's the finish. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But before I leave, I would like to thank you very much – I think I can do so on behalf of the whole House, on behalf of the whole House – for your work that you have been doing in both chambers for years. They were not always comfortable, but it is also not the duty of a Member to be comfortable. They were critical. Your appeal today at the end of your speech "Power good laws!" There was a fundamental importance for this House. This wish will surely continue to accompany this house. I would like to wish you all the best for your further life and tell you: We are eagerly waiting for your next book. Write mercilessly! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Good for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6912	Next speaker is Mr. Abgeodneter Dr. Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6934	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The three materials that are now working on us here are a little more important than perhaps they have been expressed so far in the short time of the words. First of all, I come to the Data Protection Act, which we are going to adopt here today. In my opinion, it contains three essential aspects. Aspect one: Unfortunately, the law is a late law. In fact, we should have reorganised data protection law by no later than October 1998, in particular in order to harmonise it within the framework of the European Union. I have the feeling that, without this harmonisation pressure, there would not have been a new data protection law, but it was urgently necessary and overdue. In principle, the Data Protection Act 2000 also brings some improvements, only – and that is my central criticism – it is not modern enough. It is therefore quite in the sense of Mr Karlsson's understanding that, unfortunately, it is not a good law, because we will soon get the next novels to this law into the house, and that is a pity. From a liberal point of view, the law has a central core mistake: It is not based on the philosophy of the right of self-determination on personal data, and for this reason I am allowed to make the following request of the Liberal Group: Request by Dr. Kier and partners on the report of the Constitutional Committee on the amendment of the Federal Law on the Protection of Personal Data (Data Protection Act 2000 – DSG) The National Council wants to decide: The report referred to in the title shall be amended. The National Council decided: The report referred to in the Title shall be amended as follows: 1. § 1 para. 1 is amended and reads as follows: "(1) Each natural person shall be entitled to self-determination in the processing of his or her personal data in so far as he or she has a legitimate interest in it, in particular in respect of respect of his or her private and family life." 2. § 1 para. 3 Z 2 is amended and reads as follows: "2. The right to correct incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete data and the right to delete unlawfully processed data." This is a smaller aspect, but I think it is important that current data are also included in the obligation to delete. – But for us, the right to self-determination is central. If, after all, the insurance contract law – which is the next item on the agenda of this tripartite package – has succeeded in repairing and achieving that no longer, as originally provided for in the request of the government parties, can only be passed on to health data if the person concerned has expressly prohibited it, so if the swirling has now taken place again towards the obligation of consent, then this is one thing that is at all necessary because the entire data protection law is not based on the idea of the right of self-determination over his own data, because it is not emancipatory, but because it continues to have an evocative access – the access that the authority will already know what is good. I still need to make comments on the Federal Statistical Act. From our point of view, the Federal Statistical Act is totally inappropriate: instead of privatizing, it has been distributed. In addition, a special legal form has been created that has created a very long law. Again I am with colleague Karlsson: It's not a good law. For this reason, because special constructions were chosen here, the entire commercial code had to be written down and written into the law, for example, because it was necessary, in § 42 para. 6 expressly stating that, in certain cases, the limitation of representative powers – meant to be procurist-like employees – does not have a legal effect externally. – This is all the right to trade law. This would not have been necessary if one had privatized, because then the commercial law would have applied to this institution. This is the way to create an inconspicuous special law. And as a last comment in this context: Also constitutionally, I consider the Federal Statistical Act to be highly questionable and, at least, unconstitutional in one point: In fact, § 44 establishes a statistical council consisting of 15 members. In Abs. 2 of § 44 Z 3 is intended to be sent to the Statistical Council by different bodies: of course, by the social partners – I may not need to mention that in addition, they have written themselves back into a law here – and by the national headquarters conference. First finding: "Central Conference" would have been more sympathetic to me, because there are also female country leaders – so far, one, but it might be more. If you already have the majority of "people" available, which is gender-neutral, then you could use that word. – Point 1. Point 2: This national conference is not legal at all. On a point of fact, it is very important, and I have already said that in committee. If the heads of state meet and conclude pacts among themselves, then this is something important, but there is no "state leaders conference", nor "head of state conference", as it stands here in the law. There's no such thing as that! That's why I'm wondering: How can one make a law in which a formal nonexistent unity, namely the regular meeting of national leaders, is equipped with posting rights, without one being able to see in any way who will be sent and what it means that someone will be chairing the national conference? – All this is right-free space! I mean, in many areas in this Republic, we've been used to putting the real constitution on the written constitution – that's often bad enough – now we're even starting to write into the laws that exist only in the right-wing space, and that's quite, very bad. It is therefore a very, very bad law – quite in the sense of Mrs Karlsson.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7033	The next speaker is Mr Feurstein, with a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. Excuse me, Mr Kier, I still have to hold - I almost forgot - that both of the amendments you have tabled are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. The second non-reading application shall read as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please, Mr. Dr. Feurstein, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7092	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been stressed that this data protection law, which we now adopt, constitutes a major step forward in the protection of sensitive data, i.e. of data relating to the individual. It is a question of implementing a directive of the European Union. I am aware that this improved protection, this enhanced protection for the economy, is not acceptable everywhere, especially for the insurance industry. We have therefore called for protection to be ensured in the area of data collected in the insurance industry. And I am very glad that there has been a five-party agreement that when the insurance industry collects, uses, uses, uses, uses, and informs the insured person and has a right of objection to personal data, especially sensitive health data. This means that the person concerned may prohibit the collection and use of these data. I believe that this is very important, also with regard to the data network planned in the insurance industry. The individual should be able to be fully informed about the data collected about his or her person, especially in the health field. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this amendment to be very important, and I welcome, once again, the fact that there has been a five-party agreement. But I would also like to say something about the second important law, the Federal Statistical Act, which we are dealing with today. I regard this Federal Statistical Act 2000 as a milestone. We have had to observe in recent years that policy makers have increasingly distanced themselves from official statistics in Austria. They have not presented clear ideas about the further development of federal statistics in Austria, but have left the Austrian Central Statistical Office, I have left the impression, alone and exposed it to a strong criticism, also from the media. I therefore welcome the fact that over the last nine months, in the context of a very constructive cooperation with the Austrian Statistical Office, with the Federal Chancellor's Office, but also with the Members represented in Parliament, it has succeeded in developing and defining new perspectives for statistics in Austria. Let me briefly present and outline these new perspectives at five specific points. First point: This is something very essential, even though Mr Kier said that official statistics should have been privatized. I clearly say no to this. We do not want to privatise federal statistics and official statistics in Austria, but we want to create a large area of independence for official statistics through the creation of a federal body which is responsible for official statistics. We therefore create a new Bundesanstalt "Statistical Austria", as its name is. It is an independent, independent Bundesanstalt, which, in an organisational, financial and human way, is largely left to its own decisions, but which – and this is very important to me – is subject to the Federal Chancellor and the competent Federal Minister. The responsibility for official statistics therefore remains with the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and the competent Federal Ministers. This is very important: Official statistics must not be privatized! I am against the fact that official statistics will be left to the opinion research institutes or similar institutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: This is just as important and concerns the ladders. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! We deliberately order two ladders. As they are called, they are completely indifferent. You can call it something like that. We need two expert leaders, one for the commercial sector and one for the statistical field. And the head of the statistical field is not binding, ladies and gentlemen. He has to lead the institution as a professional director only on the basis of scientific knowledge, statistical expertise. On the other hand, there is a commercial leader who has to deal with the entire commercial area of this office. These are two largely independent leaders, each of whom has a clear area of responsibility. I am in favour of this division, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point, which is also very important: With this Federal Statistical Act 2000, we achieve a large amount of relief from the economy and the population. Ladies and gentlemen! It is in the present time that many data are collected, once from a ministry, once again from social security, a third time from the National Bank and a fourth time from another office. Everyone makes their own statistics, and that is basically an immeasurable one. I clearly refer to that. It is unreasonable for the population to have to provide the same data over and over again. We are now creating a general right of access to all the data collected by the Federal Ministries and similar bodies. I welcome the right of access we create here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next important point: We have clear protection of data under the so-called principle of statistical secrecy. Statistical secrecy is further preserved, in a new, improved form, so that the individual citizens providing data can really assume that these data are not used for purposes other than statistics. It is a very important point. These data are neither to the Financial Office nor to any other institution. Data within the framework of federal statistics are absolutely secret and may only be used for statistical purposes, ladies and gentlemen. Last point: We create a comprehensive publication obligation in the field of statistics. Statistical data will not only be available in publications, but it will also provide access via the Internet and other modern media. A very important point, which will be created by this Federal Statistical Act 2000, ladies and gentlemen. This new law is for good reason referred to as the Federal Statistical Act 2000. 30 years ago, the Grande Dame of Statistics in Austria, Mrs. Hertha Firnberg, stood here and explained the German Federal Statistical Act. At the time, Ms. Hertha Firnberg showed significant emphasis on official statistics in Austria. I can say that it was again the statistics in Austria that created the new Federal Statistical Act 2000. I call you the important personalities. It was this of the state statistics of Upper Austria, Mr. Hofrat Dr. Ewald Kutzenberger, it was the Federal Chamber of Economics Statistics Dr. Josef Richter, and it was a whole series of experts from the Austrian Statistical Centre who worked together with Ministerial Council Dr. Schittengruber of the Federal Chancellery. I believe that this law creates the conditions for modern statistics, a statistics which takes account of the concerns of the Federal Ministries, the Economy, the Science, the Countries, the Communities and the interest groups. It is a Federal Statistical Act which also takes into account the interests of the staff of the Statistical Central Office, the future Bundesanstalt "Statistical Austria". I am already a little proud of the fact that it has succeeded in securing the rights of the federal servants working there to the extent that it has not been possible to do so before. The interests of the Federal Services, who work in today's Central Statistical Office and will work in the new Austrian Statistical Office in the future, are preserved by this law. It is now about the future management of "Statistics Austria" to implement the new legal basis. We are aware of this: It all depends on the commitment, on the possibility of participation, on the use of those who have the statistics to be provided in Austria. I wish these personalities the best for the future and also the new office "Statistics Austria" a good work and great success.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7188	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 10 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7209	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! I would like to follow Mrs Karlsson's statement, which will unfortunately leave us after the next elections to the National Council. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It doesn't matter if she's not there, you can do it to her. I have appreciated Mrs Karlsson in many respects – not only since I am a Member of Parliament, but already during her entire political career – in her commitment to women's rights, in her commitment to antifascism and in her genuinely bold commitment to just too incredible a file, which was set by the Liberal Group in particular. She's not been attacked by some sort of incredible kind of crime either. Courageous women like them will leave us at the National Council. – Thank you very much to Irmtraut Karlsson. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A real joke!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has given us advice here or those who are elected to the National Council. She said it was the most important condition for Members to be able to read quickly. And if they can't do that yet, they should be taking a course, she meant a little ironic. Ladies and gentlemen! That is really true, and one of these three laws, which is now being adopted, is also a case for "quickers", namely the Insurance Contract Act. This, ladies and gentlemen, we received from the committee when the meeting began. This is a law which has a very serious scope, and I would therefore like to use my speaking time especially for this law. I would like to thank Mr Feurstein very much, because he has been in the National Council for a very long time and is a very well-trained faster, so to speak, that this law, which we have been beaten up five years ago in committee, has its special virtues. In connection with this, all the political groups have now also made two very substantial red tapes. Nevertheless, I would like to justify my fundamental rejection of this law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is the essence of this law? It is a law that is only wanted by the insurance industry, because it is stupid now, as we are in the EU, that there is a clear directive that would not, so to speak, fully regulate the legal standard according to the concept of the insurance industry. But now we are immediately being depleted, and we are immediately giving the insurance industry far-reaching powers, including those to use health data. You have to know, ladies and gentlemen, that there are certainly EU countries that do not know anything like this, but, of course, in advance obedience to the insurance industry is immediately precipitated. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for the law says everything, because in the application itself it is said that public interest is in the fact that the social necessity – and I quote it literally now – is "to be able to take private precautions through insurance contracts, except dispute". The fact that it is in the public interest to complete private insurance was completely new to me until the day this law came into the committee. I thought that there was a maximum public interest in Austria, so to speak, to have as complete a health insurance system as possible, and I thought that there was still a common emphasis on this. This law, or on the grounds in this law, is precisely the opposite way. And that is why the powers given to the insurance industry in a data protection context – namely, in order to circumvent data protection and data protection law or in the form of an extensive extension – are justified by public interest. I have not yet been told by anyone what the public interest in private health insurance is. It is an extremely private interest to have good insurance protection in many respects, but the public interest can only refer to a complete health care through health insurance. Nevertheless, these two amendments, which are now being made in the law, are very essential; they, as it were, put the whole a little in the barriers. That is why the Green Group agrees with these amendments. Ladies and gentlemen! A few sentences to the Data Protection Act. The new data protection law, which is being adopted today, is certainly better than the old one, but whether it is a data protection law that corresponds to the modern notions of a fundamental right to informational self-determination, I really want to question this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] And now I'm coming back to colleague Karlsson: I regret that every time laws are introduced in the National Council – and this law is particularly perplexed because it has been in the National Council for a year, because this EU directive is to be implemented, because for months nothing is happening, because one partner is hindering the other, in this case these "Eh" coalition partners are hindering each other – it is not a law that constitutes a milestone in the legislative procedure. I believe that the comprehensive data protection for citizens is holisticly something that would correspond to this philosophy, but this law, from the point of view of the citizens, now includes something quite done by distinguishing between sensitive and less or not sensitive data, and of course it is welcome to do more in terms of sensitive data. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the legislative process, there have already been objections from experts, so to speak, not from normal users, as we Members are, but from people who are dealing with it. This concerns, for example, the objection that the fact that legal persons enjoy data protection to the same extent as natural persons is not quite clear and, above all, does not entirely correspond to the interests of data protection. We are now repeatedly receiving no answers in parliamentary questions with the reference to data protection interests of legal persons who could be violated. And I always wonder, What are these legitimate interests? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are not satisfied with this data protection law so that we can give him our consent. Third law, the Federal Statistical Act. – I am not surprised that – not in years, but in more experience – old statisticians like Dr. Feurstein are looking forward to this law. I am less pleased because I believe that data collection has simply established too far-reaching an exception. Ladies and gentlemen! I firmly believe that data on political opinion, data on religious beliefs, data on trade union membership, for example, should not be published, even if it is legally arranged whether this is now done through an Austrian law or through an directly effective EU act, and that these data are in no way suitable for the collection. I have not been able to describe a case - not even in committee - in which this need would exist. I believe that the powers of this type and the extent to which exceptions are placed in a law are extremely worrying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also consider it vague if such provisions are contained in a law, such as: If the person concerned is not interested in the confidentiality of the information, all of this should not apply. – This is all extremely undetermined, and it can be concluded that, especially when it comes to statistics, official statistics, data protection may not be done so precisely. I believe that formulations of this kind are too insecure with regard to the greatest possible protection of privacy. That is why we cannot give our consent to this law either. Finally, to what Mr. Dr. Kier has said – and now I come for the third time to speak to colleague Karlsson, to the High House, to the legislator himself: If the legislator makes laws in which he enshrines institutions that do not exist – for there is no legal anchoring of the national capital conference – then you see what – in order to say it in Vienna – sluggish legislators that is when the seeing eye happens. This does not correspond to the ideas I share with Mrs Karlsson, but I have the suspicion, Mrs Karlsson, even if you are a member of a government group: As long as the coalition is as big as it has been in recent years, not much will change. – But there are still elections.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7263	Mr Wittmann spoke. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7284	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The adaptation to Directive 95/46 of the European Community has already been mentioned. That was the reason why one has come to a recast of the Data Protection Act. Originally, it was assumed that one would find the result with a novelle. However, in the course of the discussions and the consideration of the old data protection law, it has become apparent that a new data protection law will have to be drawn up in order to implement this directive. This new data protection law has also been used to introduce special protection mechanisms. A special protection for sensitive data has been introduced, the processing of these data is generally prohibited and only permitted in exceptional cases, i.e. when important public interests exist. There has also been a substantial expansion of the rights of interested parties. Data in a manual, structured form will now also be included in this particular protection, so that not only automation-supported data, but also data in hand-led cards are subject to this protection requirement. The contracting authority's obligation to provide information to those concerned has also been extended. The data subject must be informed before the beginning of the processing of his data on the purpose for which this processing is carried out and who is responsible for the processing as a client. In essence, registration procedures have also been changed. On the one hand, there have been reliefs through standard processing, in which registration requirements are absent, and on the other hand, there have been intensifications in the case of special data protection potential. In these cases, processing is only possible after examination by the Data Protection Commission. Here, too, the law has been strengthened. Finally, there has also been a system for data traffic abroad. This has been necessary in particular because of the requirements of the EU Directive. I believe that this law is essential to the protection of the individual citizen and that the sensitive data are particularly protected. I believe that we are taking a big step in the right direction with this data protection law and that we are very much in line with the standards of the information society at European level. I would like to refer to the Federal Statistical Act that, in this context, I would like to comment very briefly on the comments made by Mr Kier, it is not the path of privatisation that has been taken, but the way in which it has been phased out. Everyone knows that I am usually a fan of privatisation and likes to have organizational models of the GesmbH – see the Bundestheater, but also the Bundessportheime – but especially at the Statistical Central Office it has been found that 80 percent of the activities consist of law-making acts, which is why a transformation into a private organisation form would in some way be problematic. I think we have found the right form of dissemination. It is particularly important in this law that one not only receives data on the basis of a public survey, but also that one can obtain access to the existing registers and access data through these registers. The citizen is also relieved by the fact that full surveys are no longer in the foreground of this law but that sampling is a priority. A milestone is also set as regards the publication of the data collected. An attempt is made to ensure access to the data collected via the Internet as unbureaucratic as possible and to provide this data to the individual. In the same way, data secrecy has been greatly strengthened in this law, and I believe that this also takes into account the concerns expressed above all by Mrs Stoisits. However, a very special achievement due to the current breakdown of the Data Protection Commission is that there is a cost transparency and that the new institution now operating in accordance with commercial principles. This means that the person who wants a statistics is no longer provided automatically, but also because cost transparency is given in the form of the one who gives the order, in the end also has to pay for the corresponding costs. On the one hand, we expect to limit the wild growth of statistics, on the other hand, but also a certain responsibility for the award of orders for the collection of statistics. I believe that this approach is now a guarantee. To the two Directors-Generals mentioned by Mr Krüger: In the field of statistics it is necessary to have a specialist who has proven himself statistically and who can also represent the Austrian Central Statistical Office or the new institution with his expertise in the field of statistics at international level. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Sometimes it is very difficult to argue! You see it!]] But it is equally necessary to assist him with a business director-general, because there is a corresponding budget volume to be managed and the four-eye principle also takes place in a GesmbH and not only in our law. [[Abg. Dr Krüger: It is not about the four-eye principle, Mr State Secretary!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: To the two-party principle!]] I believe that, with a budget volume of more than 600 million schillings, it is quite justified to transfer this four-eye principle to this new form of organization. This is nothing new, it is quite common in the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Where are there two Director-Generals in the Economy? Tell me! Can you give me an example?]] Each unit with such a budget volume, or with such an economic volume, is dependent on the four-eye principle. We have done nothing but transfer it to the new institution. The title "General Directors" – if you encounter it – has been chosen because at international, European level these titles are used to document external representation. But this is a title, and I think we should not encounter any titles, but it is about the four-eye principle, it is about the need to transfer to this institution those mutual control powers that are common in the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But you know that the English translation of "general director" is not "general manager"? You know that?]] All in all, I believe the data protection law and the statistical law form a coherent package: on the one hand, a particularly careful handling of determined data, on the other hand, a modern statistical law that allows access to registers and thus relieves individual citizens or individual businesses, but at the same time also to support the economic location of Austria through this rail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7373	Mr Murauer has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7394	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the Insurance Contract Act 1958 some remarks were made. Of course, the comprehensive and strict data protection law, which is being adopted today, requires a separate scheme for insurance contracts; the report and request of the Constitutional Committee are in place. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, ensures that insurance can continue to do what they have done so far, namely to store health-related data from policyholders. This is essential and, of course, creates legal certainty for the insured and the insurer. It has worked completely unchallenged until now. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be underlined that the Data Protection Commission did not become aware of any case in which a misuse of data would have been subject to insurance. Mr Krüger! It is not about the noise attack on policyholders in the form that the insurer is after the policyholder everywhere and listens and listens to him, but it regulates the use of these sensitive data by private insurers, such as for the purpose and occasion of the use, method of determining and to whom the data may be transmitted, information and information rights. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Krüger]] That means, of course, the consumer can ask at any time what data is available about him and where they come from, whether they have been legally experienced. I would also like to mention the confidentiality obligation of insurance and the cancellation obligation. It is also important that genanalytical data are in principle excluded from the investigation. Unlike the Green Group, which has articulated her opinion by Mrs Stoisits, I naturally welcome the responsibility and caution in the wording: "because the social-political need to be able to make private provision through insurance contracts is beyond dispute." – This supports the Austrian People's Party. Of course, I support it. I am thinking, for example, of the provision of possible widows and orphans, because our social laws have some gaps. Private insurance protection, self-reliance can close these gaps. This must therefore be supported accordingly and presented positively here. Ladies and gentlemen! The application was submitted by the Data Protection Council in broad consensus with the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Consumer Protection. It is not practical to consider that, in each case, the insured person must give the consent that requests may be made to the doctor concerned, since the insurances need up-to-date health data in order to be able to clarify coverage, in particular in the case of health and life insurance, but also in the case of accident and liability insurance. Delays or failure of the data transmission from the doctor to the insurance would – I underline this with all the clarity – be borne by the insured patient. Two examples for the illustration: If a patient who has suffered a stroke is sent to a hospital and due to his health situation is only conditional or no longer approachable and informs the acquaintances or relatives that he has an additional health insurance, the hospital must, of course, ask if a cover is provided. In this case, the patient is no longer able to provide information, and the insurance could not provide the benefit. So this was at the expense of the policyholder. Or: If a person has a serious accident abroad or is seriously ill, it must be clarified whether and how the transport of sick is covered and more so – even if the patient is no longer approachable. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that insurance also has to be carried out in the interests of the insured Community and thus of all consumers is also clear, since, of course, the premiums would have to be increased for a short or long time. Something else about the legal data of third parties – this is also something that is only confirmed and has always been handled by the insurers carefully –: If the insurer is provided with other data, data which the policyholder does not provide, he will of course contact the policyholder, because, of course, this may affect the premium and will affect it and, on the other hand, the policyholder must be alerted to whether the insurance is in certain cases free of benefit or not. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dealing with sensitive data requires clear guidelines for all concerned, and these are given herewith.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7462	The next speaker is Mr Graf, with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7484	Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary, just a word about your commitment to privatisation, because you have challenged it. That you are a fan of privatisation, I like to hear, but it must be added that you can understand different things by means of the term "privateization". [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Wittmann.]] They have called the privatisation and have said from the government bank themselves that you are a fan of privatisation. I would like to add one sentence: You and your party friends often – not always, but often or too often – understand less state and more party under "privateization". In contrast, we of the liberals understand less state and more private under "privatization". That is the difference in the view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr. Edler! An example of privatization Brand SPÖ from our joint home district: After 1945, the city of Vienna, the owner of the house Donaufelder Straße 249, bought this house cheaply; the only tenant is the SPÖ-Donaustadt. [[Abg. Edler: Haider! KELAG!]] A few years ago, the SPÖ-Donaustadt bought this house for sale. There is a magistrate's opinion – everything is correct, of course, always right. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This magistrate opinion says: Because there is a protected, indefinite tenant, namely the SPÖ-Donaustadt, it must be sold by the value of 40 percent of the SPÖ. You have to sell it to her. – This is your privatisation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Bures: That's not true at all!]] They transfer public property to the private SPÖ party, if I may express this salopp. This is your privatisation, and on the other hand we will occur! I would like to say something about the Data Protection Act, which we are innovation today: I am already pleased – and it is often about details – that the non-EDV-supported data will now also be protected. There is a lot of schindluder being driven. There are already organizational units in various banks, insurances, as well as other institutions, which, in order to avoid this, have changed from computer-supported data processing to manual data processing to avoid the whole. A bar is now being pushed forward to him. We very much welcome the fact that the practice will then have to be pursued. One of the amendments that we very much welcome. It is a pleasure to see that the Committee can also change a little, even at the last second. If it is now stated in § 11a: "if the person concerned has expressly agreed to this," we welcome it without delay and will therefore also agree. But I mean, one has shot a little beyond the goal by leaving the words: "and it has not been prohibited in the individual case," he said. – If this "and" cumulative is to be understood, it would be an absolute contradiction and then the Judicture would have to deal with it first, because one cannot say on the one hand that the data must not be processed unless expressly agreed and this was not prohibited in individual cases. According to this legislation, explicit consent and explicit prohibition are required. That would be too much for me. For this reason, it has been said here from this speaker's point of view: Of course, it can only be said that express written consent is always and everywhere necessary. I hope that all of us here in this House understand this, so that this "and" is ultimately only a remnant from bad legalism and it is not necessary to give up a ban in individual cases. I would ask you, Mr State Secretary – perhaps you can do this – to make a clarification here. I think that you just shot over the target, but I think it's positive, explain it positively. I think we all do, because otherwise this would be a contradiction; that should not be left there. Mr State Secretary! If there is a difference in interpretation or if there is something I do not understand, it would be good to make a clarification here. It cannot be prohibited in individual cases and must at the same time be expressly agreed that this would be a legal nullity. That means you can process at any time, but that's exactly what we don't want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7562	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger, with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7584	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It was not until the spring of this year that the Fessl Institute found that more than two thirds of the Austrian bureaucracy reduction and administrative simplification were desirable. This can only be seen from the significant number of statistics conducted by the ÖSTAT. I would just like to point out some statistics: Economic survey for manufacturing: 13 600 companies per month; Economic survey in trade: 6 000 enterprises per month; INTRASTAT survey on external trade between EU countries: 20 000 enterprises per month; Tourism: 18 000 enterprises per month; total livestock count; Consumer price index; Harmonised European consumer price index and so on. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased that the law to be adopted today takes into account this important concern of the Austrian population, in particular the Austrian economy. After many attempts in recent years, it is now finally possible to create reliefs for the citizens and, above all, for Austrian businesses. Allow me to look back a little bit in the past. In 1996, the Economic and Social Advisory Council issued a memorandum dealing with savings at the Austrian Central Statistical Office. ==References====External links== In July, two years and five days ago, a resolution on discharge offensive was submitted to the National Council. In 1998, a ten-point programme with the new request for a statistical relief offensive was addressed by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. In 1999 we will finally achieve what we wanted, and on 1 January 1999 we will be able to reach what we wanted. The law will come into force in January 2000. This will create an essential prerequisite for a comprehensive statistical reform. The cover explicitly refers to the objectives of the law and first of all to the broadest possible discharge of the respondents, i.e. the companies surveyed. I would like to bring three or four examples to prove how serious this law is. First: § 6: Use of all available administrative data. In order to reduce the red tape of the companies, all existing administrative data must first be used before any direct survey can be started. In Sections 10, 25, 26 the possibility of registration is created. In § 14 para. 2 these are practical survey documents. It must be addressed as low as possible and the specificities of the person to be examined. – I think it’s important to work industry-specific, to take account of the sizes of the company. In addition, there are still important points – there are many points of this law that could be listed there –: Voluntaryness instead of compulsion; samples instead of full collection ; [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Obligation to provide electronic questionnaires free of charge. – All the demands, ladies and gentlemen, we have made for years, thank God for this law, after four years of struggle, at the end of this legislative period. I am pleased because it is for the benefit of the economy, for the benefit of the entire population!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7639	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7660	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the liberals: The barmüller gives his farewell speech!]] It is undisputed that one can be very excited about this law, Mr Puttinger, you have excited yourself, the Liberals do not do it for joy, but because, once again, in the legal papers, the new data protection law has not yet implemented the right of self-determination of people about their personal data, although this is provided for in the EU Directive. But that's not going to be done. No effective control bodies are created either, and therefore not, ladies and gentlemen, because in Austria, as regards data protection, it is by no means as far as it is presented by Mr State Secretary and also by the speakers of the coalition parties. This does not surprise us, for the spiritual background in which this law is made and the spiritual background with which the government bureaucracy draws up such laws is probably well reflected by the statements of the Director-General for Public Security. This one, as far as the Security Police Act is concerned, has simply meant that he would have wished it already, since the police are now forced to do what it is doing in the law-free area. It was not a cry from the government to hear, they didn't say: A moment, the administration is still exercised under the laws, and people must not be monitored if there are no legal provisions to do so! – This has not happened, but the Director-General for Public Security can give a live interview on the Austrian radio and say: The fact that the Security Police Act is not coming is a pity, because now we have to act in the right-wing space! I would also ask you to bear in mind that there are repeated cases where data trading is made out of the authorities where data trading for authorities or for individual members of the public authorities has almost become secondary employment and is used to improve pay, without any legal consequences for those persons. It will increasingly be the consciousness of the population to note that the risk of data collected in Austria does not arise because one may know nothing about the people, but because there are more and more data in the hands of the authorities which are not then used correctly. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the amendment, which has already been tabled, is so central to the Liberal Forum and is also so focused by us. We believe that it is necessary, in particular in the Data Protection Council, to have representatives of private organizations, because that is the law that concerns those concerned. As long as it is not possible to establish effective control over the Data Protection Commission and to have a Data Protection Council, in which the data subjects are also mentioned, control of the misuse of data in Austria will remain behind what is standard. I therefore invite you to give your approval to this amendment so that we can finally create, by means of a new law, the standard in Austria, which has already been implemented in Europe. We should not adopt new data protection laws here in Metternicher Art, which do not change anything about the situation of monitoring in Austria and the lack of protection of personal data. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7693	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7714	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would just like to make a small comment on this, and this concerns the Data Protection Act. Of course, as my colleague, Mr Stoisits, said: The Data Protection Act represents an improvement compared to the status quo. But, ladies and gentlemen, it still leaves very important questions open. Let me give you an example: We will be here on Friday in this house a chip card law, the 56. ASVG-Novelle. With this chip card law, it is stated that it is possible to store other data even if other federal regulations determine this – and for that there is a procedure. I am now interested in one point in connection with this law, which concerns sensitive data. This law seeks to define sensitive data, particularly protective data, health data, information on sexual life, union membership, religious or philosophical belief. I read this provision on sensitive data and compare it to a protocol that was included in the Federal Ministry of Education, where it concerns the collection of students by new key figures for the pursuit of the student career. A detailed protocol sets out how to discuss how best to record these student data. Of course, the idea also comes: One possibility would be the chip card. There is a detailed discussion about it – do not try to deny, Mr. Feurstein, it is so – that the chip card would actually be a wonderful link to collect the student data. In cooperation with the main association of social security funds and significantly with the AMS, this is already discussed. First, the main association warns against the use of sensitive data, which should only be passed on to the individual concerned. The sensitive data are described in this Protocol: Music and five-lists. However, in the Data Protection Act, I read that this would not be sensitive data. Just as few sensitive data would be, for example, records in the AMS, whether someone refused to accept a job or otherwise showed some striking behavior toward the AMS, or at school, whether someone else was somehow conspicuous. These are no longer sensitive data under this Data Protection Act. It is therefore not by chance that, according to the minutes of this meeting in the Ministry of Education, it would be possible to use the chip card and the social security number as a link for the processing of these data. And by the way, it says: The main association secures support – including with the change of data protection law. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I'll give you a mystery and ask you: If what has already been thought of in the Ministry of Education – and I suppose, also in other ministries – is really thought about how this element of chip card can be used for this, because it is the only actually recognizable identification feature of a person, because there are common data stored by each Austrian citizen, and also all public bodies using this identification feature chip card, then we are a bit closer to the "glass person": yes or no? – I would think that we are closer to the "glass man" and also to the processing of sensitive data that are not defined as such. For this reason too, we will vote against this proposal of the Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7770	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word has not been requested by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on data protection law 2000 in 2028 of the supplements. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment and an amendment. Members Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have tabled an amendment. Mr Krüger has also asked for a separate vote. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary proposal and the amendments and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. This draft law and the amendments contain constitutional provisions, so that I begin by stating that the constitutionally required presence quorum is given. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(1) and (3). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees may give a sign of consent. – This is largely accepted, whereby I expressly determine the presence of the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. Deputies Dr Kier and comrades have submitted an additional request to include a new paragraph 6 in Article 2(42(1)). Whoever is in favour of this request by Mr Kier, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2(42) as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, may give a sign of consent. - That's the majority. I note the majority acceptance. Deputies Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 2 Paragraph 60(1). Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request has been accepted by a majority. Mr. Dr. Khol, on the Rules of Procedure? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7854	In my Croquis there is an amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and comrades to Article 2 § 9 point 11 and § 37. I'm not sure we've already voted on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7878	Second, Mr. Deputies! - I think you're right. Yes, I'm sorry, I may have overlooked that. I now put the following to the vote: Deputies Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 2 § 9(11) and § 37. I shall now vote on this amendment. Whoever agrees, may give a sign. – This is the majority, with the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. Thanks a lot! § 9 and § 37 are now in agreement. We are now voting on the amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and comrades, which refers to Article 2 Paragraph 60(1). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to... – No, I have been interrupted by the word on the business treatment of Dr. Khol. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: We have already voted on this, Mr President.]] We are therefore voting now on the amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades, which refers to Article 2 Paragraph 60(1). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This has been accepted in the majority of cases where the two-thirds majority required for the constitution is present. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This has been accepted by the majority, in the presence of the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who will also give the present draft at third reading their approval in order to give an appropriate sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We are now voting on the draft Federal Law amending the Insurance Contract Act in 2029 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein, Dr. Krüger, Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment. I shall therefore vote on the parts affected by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Feurstein, Dr. Krüger, Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to § 11a(2) points 4 and 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – I note the unanimous adoption. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the draft federal law on the Federal Statistical Act 2000 and the title and receipt in 2027 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. 5. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Requests 1163/A by Peter Schieder, Dr. Andreas Khol and Comrades concerning a Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on Broadcasting Fees and amending the Telecommunications Fees Act, the Broadcasting Regulation, the Telecommunications Act, the Broadcasting Act and the Art Funding Contribution Act (2039 of Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1162/A by Mr Peter Schieder, Dr. Andreas Khol and Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Regional Radio Act (2040 of Supplements) 7. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1021/A by Mrs Dr. Michael Krüger and comrades concerning a federal law with which the Regional Radio Act, BGBl. No. 503/1993, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 2/1999, amended (2041 of the supplements) President Dr. Heinrich Neisser: We come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There is no need for reporting. I therefore give the floor to Mr Dr. Krüger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7939	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the Radio Fees Act: This provision is specific in that it has not been drawn up, for example, by representatives of the House, not by ministerial officials or by the Secretariat of State, but by the ORF Legal Department. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by saying that this procedure is not exactly the ideal example – to express it with special caution – of a successful lawmaking. For if it is true that various interest groups or even companies in Austria – even for those who have a monopoly position – set up their own legislative service in order to deal with their own legislative proposal in their own interest, then democracy policy is highly worrying. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the first draft – I would like to say: the initial order – of the ORF contained provisions that were unbearable, and were therefore unbearable, because they would have included an unbridled noise attack by the ORF on fee payers or possible non-payers. Of course, there must be a balance of interest. We liberals do not explore that the legitimate interest of the ORF must be to enforce the obligation to pay – that is not at all a question – but here, as constitutional fundamental rights are involved, always take account of interests. What is higher to assess: on the one hand, the legitimate interest of the ORF in a full fee payment or on the other hand the fundamental rights protection of the individual? In fact, this initial draft went far beyond the objective of even providing that electricity suppliers and cable companies are obliged to provide information. - So that's not how it is! I am glad that it was then really fundamental consensus – even the government parties – that such a noise attack at the expense of the "glass Austrian" could not take place. Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course pleased that our criticism, which we have immediately submitted, has proved to be legitimate. It was our liberals who, I believe, raised the loudest voice against the "glass Austrian" against this attack on the fundamental and freedom rights of the Austrians. It is also our merit that the draft has come to a mitigating end. The first draft is no longer to be debated because of our criticism, which is thanks to God also to the Data Protection Advisory Council. The second draft, ladies and gentlemen, is a considerably deficient design and refers only to the access of the ORF Feesinkasso Service GmbH to the registration data. We also believe that the rights of these Feesinkasso Service GmbH are too large compared to the rights of other companies – including monopolistic or oligopolistic companies – so we demand separate voting at second reading, because we are against this point. All in all, however, we can give our assent to the Radio Fees Act in third reading, because, if you stand for public-law broadcasting – we of the liberals have always stood for dualism in the Radio Order, for a public-law part and for a private-law part – it is also a legitimate interest that the ORF comes to its fees. We shall therefore vote in third reading. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have just mentioned that FPÖ has always stood for dualism in the broadcasting system – on the one hand, the public sector of the ORF, on the other side of the private law sector. I must say that it is very unfortunate that in 1999, despite efforts in the Constitutional Committee, despite the establishment of a subcommittee, despite expert hearing, there has still not been any terrestrial television in Austria. A few years ago, the term "Media-Albania" was coined, particularly after the decision of the European Court of Justice, which became known under the short term "Lentia 2000". However, this was also brought about by the European Court of Justice because the Federal Party observer of the Freedom Party Dr. Jörg Haider was successful with a complaint in Strasbourg. Since 1993, there has been the term "Media-Albania" for Austria. He is now no longer true to God in a wide range of areas – what the dual radio order is about, he is largely no longer true, but unfortunately still for private terrestrial television. I think it is, I have repeatedly mentioned this, an insult to Albania, when we say that we are in the area of private terrestrial television, that is, about the reception by the house antenna, a "media-albania", because Austria has fallen back to the last place in Europe in this question behind Albania. Of course, various motives have contributed to this. On the one hand, of course, the ORF's interest is to keep private competition on the television sector as long as possible over the antenna. I say again: This is legitimate for business policy, but then, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of this House – despite conflicts of interest in the board of trustees – are called upon to establish fundamental rights in Austria, to allow a dual broadcasting system also in relation to television. That this has not happened is unfortunate. This presents us nationally, but also internationally, in media policy – not as a total member of the House, but as a real bad witness to the representatives of the government parties as well as to the government parties themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the area of private radios. This is the The area is already covered by the dual broadcasting system Thank God, although we believe in this regard that there can only be complete equality if there is at last also a national private radio, because a national private radio would have quite different possibilities in Austria alongside the overpowering ORF with its three nationwide frequencies. But because of the ORF – legitimate from a business point of view – it would have been in our responsibility to release at least one channel in Austria to a national private sector – "Blue Danube Radio", for example, this fourth chain – without annoying the "international community", because it would be possible to require the ORF in the other programmes to provide the "international community" with a programme as well. - So this pain swings with it. It is very positive, I admit, that the government's proposal for an extension of private radio freedom to those frequencies which are not covered by VHF, i.e. the media wave. We agree with that without delay. One thing is particularly pleasing – I speak here of course pro domo and in my own thing –: I am particularly pleased that I and my colleagues have succeeded in increasing the license period of the private radios from seven to ten years. That this has succeeded is not solely due to our initiative – we already agree – because what should we here as a minority party, as an opposition party if we had not acquired the goodwill of SPÖ and ÖVP for this change. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well!]] Therefore, I would also like to thank SPÖ and ÖVP officially here for taking this sensible request into account the extension of the seven-year licence period for private radios to ten years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All those who have an idea by private radio and radio that deal with it know that it is quite simply impossible for a private operator to get into the black figures within seven years in this overpowering ORF competition and to obtain an acceptable "return on investment". You just need at least ten years to do this. It is therefore reasonable to provide, on the one hand, for an extension of the existing licences for the three years to a total of ten years and, on the other hand, for a ten-year period for the following periods, because of course nothing else can apply to the following licences. This is therefore a very positive thing, and I would like to add that, of course, it is an external question that the government parties have insisted that the name Dr. Krüger stands third, although you know, Mr Schieder, that this initiative bears my handwriting. But I'm still glad you went with me. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the bill for clarification of the 50 percent. We discussed in the committee whether it was necessary to amend the law. – You see an inevitability because you interpret the law as it corresponds to my request. I am not insulted that you are opposed to this request because you have expressly declared that you understand this request in such a way that the determination of the authorisation obligation of more than 50 percent change of the shares only legal transactions from 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== January 1999 started zero at the hour and all previous changes in social relations remain unaffected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In conclusion, the Radio Fees Act: Of course, it is a disappointment that our committee statement has not been taken into account, in which we say that the National Council, since the ORF has been able to enforce its interests to a large extent, expects the ORF to be ardent in the issue of raising fees. We have tabled this request for this committee to be established. This application has been rejected. However, we will value it as lawyers of the anonymous fee payer and closely monitor the development that fees will not be increased over the next three years.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8009	Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit.– Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8030	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot agree with my previous speaker in his introductory remarks that if someone – like the ORF here or in other cases who is reviewing a law – already sends us his attitude, his opinion in the form of a legislative text, this is an attack. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] That's a proposal. The legislator is not obliged to consider the proposal of any group or to treat it in the same way as a government proposal. It is true, however, that there were inconsistencies and concerns about the fact that these had to be eliminated and are now removed. And so now this fee law offers real improvements. It has been taken into account the concerns of the data protectors, and a simpler and more efficient procedure is ensured by the removal of authorisation – that is, only after notification – by the withdrawal of stamp marks, by a free mobile reception and by the participation of the ORF in the GIS, which is the company that collects the fees. Since telephone and radio charges are now different legal instruments of competence, the question was finally raised as to whether one would nevertheless consider that both should continue to be concerned by the GIS. And since the Ministry of Transport assumed that that part of the exemption from the telephone fee does not lead to additional costs for the federal government. I believe that this is, in general, a very good regulation which has been found in the Committee, and it will also enable what has been a particular concern of the Secretary of State. It will enable the ORF to use the corresponding amounts of money for Austrian film and order productions. For the current year, over 574 million schillings have already been awarded to film orders. This is, however, an advance to this regulation, which is now being decided. The ORF plans to spend 817 million schillings on films, series, documentation and reports – of which more than 770 million schillings are order production, the rest are co-production shares – so that the order production, that is to say, in this sector, which is particularly dear to the Secretary of State, will be a plus of 240 million schillings compared to the previous year. If one still takes the amounts paid for team and staff rents, it is really a very large guarantee also of those who work in this important area in our Republic. The third point I would like to mention here is that when the change to the Regional Radio Act was made, it was in fact in the foreground that we were dealing with something that we did not even consider in the last novel. When we created regional radios in the UK, we did not remember that there would be anyone who wanted to operate such a thing in the middle wave, because there was no international experience in this direction, and we had therefore not taken up the middle wave area at that time. – Now there is someone applying for a license. For this reason, the middle wave area was now also to be opened, and this is done by this novelle. What is very important, ladies and gentlemen, is the motion for a resolution, which is a part of Amendment 1163/A. The aim of this motion for a resolution is to allow the work done in the Subcommittee on Digital Territorial Television to disappear by the end of this legislative period to be maintained and continued. In very interesting hearings in this subcommittee, it has focused on two questions. The first question was: Do those who say that they will not come around digital terrestrial television, that will be a future necessity in this part of Europe – or are those who say, no, that will shift to satellites, and terrestrial digital television has no future? Second question: Is it really so because of the existing possibilities in Austria that if we give the third chain to a private person next to ORF 1 and ORF 2 almost no longer – never again! – can digitize because you would otherwise have to shut off ORF 1 or ORF 2 for many years to use these waves for digitization? Is it therefore useful to leave the third part open so that you can digitize the ORF and then have more channels and thus even more possibilities for private? This question could not be finally resolved in the Subcommittee and therefore the motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to continue to examine this question. I think we have made a good deal of progress in this area with these proposals and proposals for legislation. We do a piece of privatisation, we have some modernisation in it, and we do not lose the work that we started during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8101	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8123	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! However, the motion for a resolution which you have just referred to is a very rudimentary one, because in the first sentence it is found that there is not enough... [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is just a "shoe spoon" to treat it!]] That's it! It should have been done. Now to take only the "shoe spoon" and to say that it is being treated, and at the same time to say that there are not enough facts yet, however, the Federal Government should create legal regulations, is contradicting itself. If so, then one must demand that studies, or similar, clarify the proper conditions, and build upon them one can make a law. - But you don't. I therefore believe that there is a right to criticise the fact that this motion for a resolution is only a matter of heart because we simply do not want liberalisation in the field of the ORF. Despite this, ladies and gentlemen, I feel it is a real chuzpe that Mr Krüger, as one of those who are not quick enough to fight for the rights of the fundamentals and the rights of freedom, and who cannot agree with euphoricly enough that this is being introduced in Austria, comes here and points out how violently he has fought for the rights of the fundamentals and freedoms and, in particular, how he has fought against the violations, Mr Krüger, who has planned the ORF with his draft concerning the fee payers he wanted to monitor, which you are right to do. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is a difference between a fee payer and a criminal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The Nigerian drug dealers are slightly different from the payers of the ORF!]] Only, Mr Krüger: You have, at least once, joined the back in this matter when you came to it that there may be a larger group of people who could be pitied there. The fundamental and freedom rights were not Their concern, in no way at all, has been raised by the media after Mr Weis said so salopp at the Salzburg media days, Mr Böhacker. [[Abg. Böhacker: Professor!]] We have, because we were very well, and always, critical of the ORF and monopoly of the ORF, then, of course, we have created a political discussion. We are pleased that you are on the train, of course, because we have to deal with these questions much more consistently. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I think you need 20 years until you take off your FPÖ complex!]] But that the proponents of Rasterfachung and Lauschanfrage, namely you, Mr Krüger, stand out here and act as if they were the guardians of fundamental and human rights in our country, that is what I am telling you – the ground is going to be. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The basic problem remains to be solved by the Radio Fees Act, which will be decided by the Coalition – now admittedly deficient: The GIS, in which the ORF will participate to 50 percent, will receive data from the reporting authorities. This was planned in a much more exuberant form in the draft of the ORF, but it will now be added to the fact that, from the state side, data will be made available to a private company which has been collected for quite different purposes. We therefore believe that the balance has not been achieved and that this is an action that is wrong. Nor do we think it useful that about 1.5 percent of the fees collected by this GIS will in future be paid to the Ministry of Finance as a flat-rate fee for the costs of the appeal procedure – and it is not at all clear how many vocations and the like will exist, but there is simply a flat-rate fee. The company itself will also be able to retain 2.5 percent of the amounts as compensation. In addition, it is now necessary for the first time that the ORF is remunerated by the federal government of the withdrawal of the programme due to various exemptions. We consider this to be an approach that the ORF will naturally like – it was obviously not possible to close itself to the government groups before elections – but it is not fair. It is fair, ladies and gentlemen, that the programme fee will continue to be abolished. The cultural schilling will also be simply prescribed via ORF fees by payment form. We believe it is necessary to separate the collection of ORF charges and other taxes, and for these reasons we will not agree to the proposed Radio Fees Act and the proposed amendment. The fact that one has opened the middle wave transmitter is good, that's right. We still believe that there can be 26 per cent participation by other media companies, because with the opening you will now make, you will not open a greater freedom of expression door and gate, but those clusters of opinions that already exist will also be strengthened in the medium-wave area. We believe that this is the wrong way, and we will therefore not give our support to this government proposal either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8227	Mr Morak has also been mentioned on the floor. [[Abg. Morak: How much time do I have?]] 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8257	At the beginning of my short debate, I will bring the amendment motion for a Arbitrator, Morak, Krüger – or in the liberal reading: Krüger, Morak, Schieder – Ein. [[Quoted print version removed]] A few remarks to the Radio Fee Act. The starting point was clear: here the ORF, to which the costs of rights, production costs, in short the cost of the program, on the other hand also called for, above all, the ÖVP after a better, more public-law, after a higher quality programme and according to better content, and the third concerned the situation on the fee sector. In Austria – and this has been a political decision – 315,000 people have been exempt from the fees; the costs have been shifted to the ORF. In a similar market, namely in Switzerland, there are not 315,000 exemptions but 28 000. This is only a number of comparisons, but one must also say that in Switzerland the fees are higher than in Austria. Both side by side – everybody can imagine that – do not work. There was then still the complexity – and this has already been addressed by Mr Schieder – in obtaining a broadcasting licence and an additional authorisation for mobile broadcasting equipment. This resulted in the need for a reorganisation by the legislator. It has already been mentioned several times that the fee collection will take place via a collection office in which the ORF is involved at 50 percent. There is only access to the notification data. There are changes in the field of reporting requirements, there are reliefs, and for tourism and all households there are changes in the field of mobile receivers when there is a genuine notification for a stationary device. As a cultural politician, it seems to me to be the changes resulting from the exemption and the rise of the public hand for these exemptions. This will bring about sustainable changes in the production sector – we are talking here of a sum of 800 million schilling – and this is vital for the Austrian film industry, as one has to add. This is happening in four stages, starting in 2001, and this may lead to an innovation and production shift in the Austrian film and television industry. It would then be worth mentioning the art promotion contribution. Above all, Mr State Secretary would have to say that he should consider whether he should not bring this art promotion contribution, if he already exists, where he belongs, to the artists. It might be possible to build the artist's social insurance scheme on it. It is clear that money that is taken out of production and contained in pensions is always lacking in production afterwards. But if you're already hanging out of the window for an artist's social insurance scheme – and I think it's all right – then it must be clear to you that this is missing in production, but on the other hand, there's social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8347	The amendment just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8372	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! First of all, it is very important and essential to me to note that the Green Group, although we do not give our assent to the Broadcasting Fees Act as a whole, calls for a separate vote on the point in which the ORF is about 600 million schilling, so to speak, for the missing programme fee in the case of exemptions. This is an essential amount that benefits the ORF and can be done with the good ORF programme. That is why, in order to emphasize this explicitly, we have tabled a request for a separate vote. Ladies and gentlemen! It is equally important for me to stress that the long-term demand of the Greens that the ORF itself collects its program fee is now being implemented by Feesinkasso Service GmbH, in which the ORF is involved. There is, in principle, no objection. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, the fact that these two points I have spoken about, especially the collection of the ORF, if I may call them so, is now governed by different laws, especially the Radio Fee Act, which has nothing to do with the programme fee and the money that the ORF rightly claims, is most disturbing to us. Why is what the ORF rightly says not regulated by the Broadcasting Act? Today, so many laws are being amended for these very few points, so that it alone is an expression of this inconsistency. It is necessary to amend the Telecommunication Fees Act, the Radio Regulation, the Telecommunications Act, the Broadcasting Act and the Art Promotion Contribution Act in order to achieve what is being achieved by these changes of law today. Our main criticism, and my main criticism, refers to the fact that the state in Austria actually withdraws 16 S per month for having a television, and 5 S is withdrawn per month for having a radio. – People would get on their heads if you came to you and said: For having a computer at home, the state now collects a fee. Because you can start with a computer even more than with a radio device with which you can only listen, you pay not 5 S, but 17 S per month. – No human would understand! But it is so with regard to radio receivers, i.e. radios and televisions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Explain to me what it has to do with what comes from the radio! In this case, I refer primarily to the ORF. The ORF has of these 16 S monthly for a television and 5 S monthly for a radio – which makes 192 S per year for a television and 60 S for a radio – nothing! He doesn't see anything of this money at all; that's a tax. This is a tax due to the fact that you own a receiver. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the central criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have nothing against the fact that cable operators demand a fee from their users, for example. They also offer something for it, namely access to the programmes. It is only right that there should be no objection, of course, that the ORF will receive a programme fee. It also offers something for it, namely good radio and television programme, which is of course always capable of improving. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's why I wonder: Why is there this total complication in these many laws for such a simple thing?- Oh, my God! The public service broadcasting service has a statutory mandate. He has the right to demand a fee and to drive it now, more recently, for this legally defined task to be fulfilled. But that the State will levy a fee or a tax for the mere possession of a radio and television apparatus, which, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with the ORF's legitimate right to program fees! That is why we reject this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not reject the withdrawal of cultural schillings under national legislation, which, among other things, also flow to the ORF, or that there is the Art Promotion Contribution Act, which is also amended, because it benefits the ORF. But what you're talking about here has nothing to do with what you hear and see. This is a simple tax, and I wanted to say that again. Now to the second request: Mr Krüger and Peter Arbitrators have already spoken about the Regional Radio Act. There is nothing wrong with the changes being made here today. I am well aware that I have something against the amendment made between door and Angel concerning the extension of the licence period. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It was discussed in the committee! This has been discussed in the Committee.]] I was also in the committee, but I did not understand that it should be decided today. [[Abg. Koppler: You can't go into detail like that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder, particularly, but Dr. Krüger, too, did not explain the purpose that this should actually have. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I've already explained this!]] A good radio operator doesn't need to be afraid to have his license. But I – now I speak as a consumer and listener – have no idea at all that a radio called "Regional Radio" does nothing more than play CDs for three years. I'm talking as an listener now. Let me explain the background. I see this restriction to seven years in a sense as a control function, not in terms of content, but in terms of whether the basics for which one has obtained a licence have actually been fulfilled. It often seems, ladies and gentlemen, that what has been written in this proposal and what was the basis for the issue of licences has nothing to do with what a regional radio currently offers many times. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A very last thing about the Regional Radio Act, which we agree with, but which lacks something essential, which is actually politically long-agreed. At least it is always announced out loud – now I am referring mainly to the ÖVP – when interested people, so to speak, speak lobbys, you are always there, but in Parliament, when it comes to this, you do not want to hear about it, namely the anchoring of the free, non-commercial radios in the ORF. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Do you know "Radio Stephansdom"? – "Radio Stephansdom" is a classic free, non-commercial good radio, as Mr. Dr. Krüger says. What do you have against the fact that stations such as Radio Stephansdom are legally anchored? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not true! According to the definition of free radio, Radio Stephansdom is not a free radio! Radio Stephansdom is not a free radio! I don't know!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it is general opinion that non-commercial radio operators have long been an essential part of the radio landscape and, above all, from a democratic point of view, make a significant contribution to the media diversity and representation of the different social groups to be able to articulate their opinions in a loud manner. Therefore, it would only be consistent to anchor non-commercial radios in the law. This has long been chordd, but unfortunately it does not happen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the last time in this legislative period, broadcasting is discussed. The Federal Chancellor, at the time he was still called Vrannitzky, has spoken in his government statement and the two government parties have repeatedly spoken about the "great ORF reform" in their coalition agreement. I heard that very, very often. But the more intensive we have removed ourselves from the beginning of a legislative period and a working group of the two parties, the further the great ORF reform has taken place. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I must say quite honestly to you that, although what Mr Schiederer has said here in praise of the content of the motion for a resolution, there is nothing to object to, but: What have we been for so long in the Subcommittee? – There were exactly those experts who have already delivered the basics, and now you want to ask the Federal Government to involve experts to develop foundations. This Parliament makes sense and invites everything that has rank and name in these areas to hear the opinions, and then the legislator says, now I have to ask the government again. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this motion for a resolution you will, as it were, document your own inability to design social processes! That is why I consider this to be a rather unworthy conclusion of this legislative period in the field of broadcasting law, and I must say that I am rather disappointed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8487	The amendment has just been properly submitted, is supported and is under negotiation. Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8512	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Državni Secretary! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Arbitrators, I have to Your comments on the motion for a resolution that you have tabled correct a little. The truth is, things are actually ready for decision. The expert hearings have clearly shown that we know the problems and know what the solutions are to look like, but I understand, of course, that the Federal Government is afraid of making such a decisive cut in the elections. You should admit that, too. That means that this does not seem to be the best time for this decision. We have talked about it more often, but I believe that things are actually on the table. We don't have so many choices, but of course every decision is difficult. That is, we must digitize, and we know that there are not many possibilities. The third channel is, as it were, the channel to open, we must do so, for which we must probably make the current private operator, at least for some time, space on the second or first channel of the ORF. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out the following: As you may have heard from the media, I will not belong to the House in the future, I will no longer be candidates. I therefore make an urgent appeal, above all, to colleagues who are here to speak. I have made some very important requests in connection with the audience radios, with the groups of radio companies. These applications may fall within the scope of history if you, Mr Obmann, do not take them to light during the next legislative period. I would like you to know that you will be submitting these requests – perhaps your size – for me in the next legislative period! Is that what you're doing? – You don’t have to be fully identified with this. You can say that's in memory of a former member of this house. But that will show your size, because then we immediately have the level in the Constitutional Committee that we need to discuss these requests. I would just like to repeat these requests as follows: I have already presented them. Once again, it is a fundamental change to the Radio Law. In this context, I would like to remind you of Mr Schuppich, who for years was chairman and chairman of the hearing and visionary representation. In his last speech in the public, he said, among other things, that he felt that the groups should also be represented in the audience and visionary representation. I believe that this legacy could be taken seriously and, in this sense, we should also change the broadcasting law. All in all, it would be important to formulate the clues in § 2 in this way – which the ORF has often asked us to do or at least assembled in conversations if we want to have them – that the ethnic groups in Austria are considered to be groups to be particularly considered in accordance with § 2 of the Broadcasting Act. That is where I refer to my request. Furthermore, in view of the poor budgetary situation, the private radio law would be extremely important for the possibility that the radio spectrum operator would make broadcasting facilities available free of charge or that, as an alternative – or/and as one wants – the ORF would be able to participate in these operators under special conditions and societies and to bring the use of broadcasting facilities into society. – These are my requests. All in all, I refer to the very remarkable request of the Liberals concerning a media institution. This issue should also not fall under the table, even if I do not think that you will have the courage to implement this proposal as it stands here. But I'm asking you at least... [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not a question of courage, but that is a question of will!]] – You have the good will, you said, so I assume that you will do good things. I'm just suggesting I can't force you to do that. However, I would also like to refer to the very precarious situation of the people's radio companies and operators. ==References====External links== April 1999 concerning the precarious situation, one of the managing directors of the Federal Chancellery writes the following – I quote –: As you know, we have to forward most of the subsidies that come from the Federal Government to the ORF. That means that this is a throughput post, which does not include a minute of sending time, because we have to pay for the use of the ORF systems. However, we have great difficulties in creating a relevant advertising. - Quote. In the sense of the framework convention – Mr State Secretary, I appeal to you in particular, we are indeed in default as regards reporting obligations, we already had 1st place. However, we have not done so July – it is not only a question of the benefit of the Federal Government, how the "radio operator Volksgruppe" is doing. It is not only the question, we give them voluntary more money, but it is an obligation that Austria has taken over under the framework convention. In this sense, I simply cannot understand the answer of a cabinet member of the Federal Chancellor, namely the press speaker, who concludes: You don't get any money. – This is the first part of the letter. The second part is: I very much hope that you will succeed in preventing the danger of insolvency and the cessation of broadcasting by the development of other sources of income and by reducing costs. - Quote. That's the only answer. We know, however, what such a daily programme actually costs, because the ORF has calculated it for the Federal Government, with much higher amounts planned. In this sense, a great deal of work remains in this area for the current Federal Government, but also for the coming unfortunately. I can only say: Luck up and a little more courage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8550	Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say that the Federal Government welcomes the initiative for the re-regulation of fees collection. I believe that this is an efficient and modern way of finding links with other European models. I believe that the right step has been taken, on the one hand, in order to prevent black seers from doing so to the extent that this is the case at present, because this is unfair to those who pay so far, and on the other hand there are certain advantages; mobile reception is no longer to be paid. As a cultural politician, of course, I particularly welcome the decision of the ORF – this was also informed to me – that the amount that is now being used for Austrian film productions from the refunding of the exemption from fees is now being used to the ORF. This is a very important concern for the film industry in Austria, and this is a big leap forward because it will lead to innovation, permanent employment and thus the ORF takes on a very important cultural obligation to promote Austrian film on order productions. From a cultural point of view, this procedure is very welcome. With regard to the motion for a resolution, I should like to say to the Federal Government that we will, on the one hand, carefully examine the results of this survey and that we are currently in the process of installing an expert group made up of experts from countries where there are already digital television in which there are some, just foreign television organizations. In this respect, great efforts have been being made for a number of years. We are trying to integrate this know-how into this group of experts in order to ultimately come to a solution that is forward-looking and forward-looking. With regard to the efficiency of frequency management, I should just like to point out that we have – and continue to bear the ground – and in this respect also with the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport are in negotiations, that we also have to transfer frequency finding after public tendering to private companies in order to achieve greater efficiency and greater transparency. I think we're on a good way. I have already said this in committee. In principle, of course, it is also the decision to amend the Regional Radio Act to include the wave of funds. I think that this is an important step in the right direction with the right signs.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8618	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. However, we do not come to the vote. In the short term, amendments or additional proposals have been tabled and a request for separate votes have been made. A short break in the sitting to prepare for this vote is not sufficient. Therefore, I shall refer the vote on these agenda items to the date of the vote on points 8 to 13 of the agenda in accordance with business rules. However, it is expected to take place before 3 p.m., before calling the urgent request. (vote: see p. 105.) We are now continuing on the agenda. 8. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Report (III-178 of the Supplements) of the Federal Government on the General Report of the Working Group on the Enforcement of the Austrian Federal Law on Disadvantaged Provisions (2033 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1173/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol and comrades on a federal law which amends the General Administrative Procedure Act 1991, the Workers' Chamber Act, the General Mountain Police Regulation, the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Penal Code, the Tax Code, the General Civil Code, the Law on Criminal Organisation and the Criminal Procedure 1975 (2034 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution 1065/A (E) by Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat, Dr Peter Kostelka and others on the elimination of discrimination against blind persons in the field of employment (2035 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1159/A by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act adopting a General Disability Equality Act (2036 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Federal Government's Report (III-195 of Supplements) on the resolution of the National Council E 151-NR/XX. ==References== December 1998 on measures to assist the deaf and hearers (2037 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution 554/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and others on the review of the constitutional conformity of the Convention on Biomedicine on Human Rights (2038 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8731	We come to points 8 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There will be sign interpreters available to us. We have no oral reporting, so enter the discussion. First, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8771	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Anyone who has to do with the disabled in Austria or who is himself disabled will certainly be right for me when I say that Austria is lagging behind in the field of disability policy compared to other European countries. An expression of this reluctance is that at the end of this century we now have to deal with the discriminatory provisions in the federal legislation. In addition, I believe that the biggest manco in the Austrian disability policy is that there is no anti-discrimination law. This lack of an anti-discrimination law is also the reason why we now had to search the legislation, which provisions on disability discrimination exist, because if we had an anti-discrimination law, then all these shortcomings in our legal order would have been discovered for a long time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We now have this report from the Federal Government. I do this very rarely because I express my respect for, respect for, or thanks to the officials because they finally and finally have to work for Parliament, but I believe that the officials of the Ministries and, in particular, the head of the section, who has taken over the direction of this Commission, have really done a great deal in this matter, in order to get this report done in good time and also to enable the Ministries to do their job properly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the basis of this report, ladies and gentlemen, we see that there are a number of procedural disadvantages which the disabled have to deal with. However, I do not want to deal with this today because I believe that these are the less serious things a disabled person is burdened with, but rather I want to deal with the material things. There is once – and this is stated in the report, we know for a long time – that for example, for the teaching profession or profession of a judge, the condition is the perfect physical integrity, i.e. physical fitness. So why a judge or a teacher should not sit in the wheelchair should be shown to us first. The Ministries are trying to justify the reasons for this discrimination. I believe that the Ministries have great reason to get away with this discriminatory provision. Ladies and gentlemen! I also think that there is a substantial lack of information that countries have not been obliged to explore their legal systems for disadvantages in their areas, as it is precisely the case of the disabled. We are also concerned, and above all, with the need for people with disabilities to participate in daily life without being restricted in any way. There's no such thing now. The construction regulations are still designed in such a way that they are disabled. It is still necessary to build buildings that cannot be entered by the disabled, both at federal and national level. The Federal Police Directorate Wels has a new guard room built in which there are steps in the entrance area. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Weiz is this! Weiz in the Styria!]] There should be no such thing at all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or the music school in Döbling: Mr Tiller said: We have the most beautiful music school in the city. – The building has been given by the sisters Hainisch. It was renovated by 20 million Schilling from the municipality of Vienna. But – you will hardly believe it – in this building there is no elevator! That is, the disabled cannot be present in the hall on the first floor; they can only be at the bottom of the entrance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All of you have it in your hand to abolish these anti-disadvantaged regulations in Austria. Has it ever happened to you that you left home, wanted to go to the cinema, had a movie card and knew what movie you wanted to watch, but had to be afraid if you could even go to the cinema? - Probably not. If that happened to you, it would be an urgent concern to you yourself to do something so that something like this can no longer happen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, the Apollo cinema in Vienna, to name just one, has been renovated by 10 million Schilling, but only three halls are disabled-friendly, the rest not. The disabled can either watch the films that are shown in these three halls – or they can go home again. Or, as the report says, have you ever been asked, if you have flown, whether they have obtained a medical certificate? - Certainly not! In the case of disabled persons, wheelchair drivers, it is necessary to provide a medical certificate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can't take that! Or: District offices in Vienna are equipped with steps, and that's what it says: You can ring, and then the porter comes out. – It happened to me once. I wanted to marry my disabled daughter in the Magistrian District Office for the 18th century. District; District chief is an ÖVP member. The porter told me, when I asked him to help me with the commission, that he did not do so, because he did not know who was responsible, and also: how does he get it?- Oh, my God! Then someone from the body funeral in this building helped me bring my child to the wedding hall. - That's how it looks in Austria! That is why it is urgently necessary for us to do something. – I could continue this series of examples if that were not to prohibit my speaking time. My final sentence: It is urgent that the countries should first examine their legal systems and that there should finally be an anti-discrimination law in Austria in order to enable the disabled to participate in all activities.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8836	Mr Kiermaier has referred to an actual correction. The Rules of Procedure are known. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8861	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I have to correct my predecessor: There are certainly disabled judges. In the Amstetten District Court, an own lift was even installed, and the deceased district judge Dr. Karl Aigner has been serving there for many years. It has even been led by the Gendarmerie to external negotiations on the motorway and similar. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8888	Mrs Silhavy has also been mentioned. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8909	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The quality of human cohabitation can be measured, among other things, by the extent to which society is willing to afford equal opportunities to humans. This applies in particular to the situation of our fellow citizens with disabilities. Mr Partik-Pablé! – Now she's not in the hall anymore, but I think... – I'm sorry, but I haven't seen her. [[Call out to the liberals: there she is! She's here!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! There is, of course, a list of measures and criticism points that you could continue, but I think you should also look in your own rows and consider which ads you switch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's impressive if you could be with a wheelchair dancing or if you see what great achievements are being done in the computer areas, for example, blind or hard-to-see people. We Socialists and Social Democrats are talking about a greater number of opportunities. High house! Today, on the one hand, we are dealing with two reports and, on the other, with requests for the elimination of the disadvantages of disabled people. More opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, mean not only to eliminate discrimination, but also more opportunities to set conditions that are largely tailored to existing needs in order to prevent disadvantages. From this point of view, the report previously quoted by Mrs Bablé is also to be seen, namely the reforestation of the Austrian Federal Code of Law in terms of less restrictive provisions. Implementation of the findings of this report is measures as we have formulated them in this motion for a resolution 1173/A. To this end, I should like to make the following supplementary request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are aware that, with these decisions today, we will only eliminate some of the disadvantages. We will all have to make great efforts together in order to achieve equal opportunities in all areas of life for people with disabilities, in line with their specific needs. A current situation is already the subject of the Convention on Biomedicine on Human Rights, on which we have taken up a five-party resolution in the Committee. I would just like to say to Mr Kier that we have been able to share the intention of this request, but both because of the structure of our legal order and because of the inestimable costs of the follow-up. In this context, I would also like to mention what Mr Partik-Pablé has already said, namely that it is indeed necessary to point out the responsibility of the countries and that it would be desirable if a corresponding report on the enforcement of the rules of law could also be carried out at country level. Even today's agenda shows us – and we still have the report on measures in favour of deaf people and hearers on the agenda today – that there is a need for a variety of measures that take account of different needs of people with disabilities. For example, today I have only received the final documents of the project "Steps to improve the participation of the deaf in the information society". I assume that this document will be discussed here in this House during the next legislative period. On the other hand, this report on the implementation of the Federal Law system offers enough suggestions for our further work on these issues. As far as today's agenda is concerned, I am pleased that this decision-making process is a step towards more opportunities for people with disabilities, and I hope that it is possible for you all – all parties and all Members – to take this step with us. Finally, I would like to thank the two interpreters here. I know that I tend to speak quickly, and to translate that, of course, is a special challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8983	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9007	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! There is no doubt that today, along the long and laborious path of achieving the state objective of reducing discrimination for disabled people, we will be moving forward a few steps further. But one must not be satisfied, especially if one considers – some previous speakers have already explained this – that the real problem – which has been demonstrated in the working group in the BKA – is probably the federal states which have not only been asked – but which, above all, have not taken the idea from themselves that, when the Constitution has changed, they could actually do something, namely to take an example at the federal level and explore their legal systems in relation to relevant disability-discriminatory provisions. If there are two signers here today, it would be even more beautiful if we had made progress on the recognition of their language. That would have been a real step. Unfortunately, we are still far away, and this point is de facto not on our agenda in a satisfactory way. That means that we must make further and more efforts in the next legislative period. We must not be satisfied with what is being decided here today, although it is positive to see that all of this is happening, and above all it is positive to see that this working group in the Federal Chancellor's Office has actually been timing results. However, I think it is particularly important that I quote it here in plenary, that it was not quite clear whether it was a discriminatory law in each individual case or just a discriminatory execution, and that is the actual crux. Often, the laws are taken for themselves if one reads them unattendedly, not at all discriminatoryly, they are only sometimes implemented in their application – I say cautiously – unskillfully. That is why I believe that all the authorities and executives involved should be much more aware of this State objective of Article 7 B-VG. This was one of the reasons why the Liberal Group has tabled this initiative to create a general law on the equality of people with disabilities, although we are aware that this still needs a long discussion process. That's why I promise from this point of view: We will, of course, reintroduce this proposal during the next legislative period – with the idea that we will then have enough time to discuss it in detail in order to develop it further. As I would like to take a short look, I will deal with a few aspects which Mrs Silhavy has also mentioned. Whether it really is not a suitable legal basis, because it does not fit well with the structure of the Austrian legal system, we need to discuss it. We believe that it is quite up to the Federal legislator to establish a constitutional provision by which, in fact, he forces the countries to adapt their legal provisions to Article 7 of the Federal Constitutional Law, namely by establishing in the constitutional order that there is a special competence of the federal government in this respect and that a non-implementation or non-implementation of legal provisions at national level can be enforced by federal law if otherwise it would be unconstitutional. It may seem unusual, but it would be worth the discussion. Even if we admit that the cost consequences are something that we really need to discuss thoroughly – and we have full understanding of that – it must not, in our opinion, be an excuse. Therefore, in our draft, we have provided for more generous arrangements for the transitional periods and also for the participation rights of the main committee of the National Council. All of this has been said here as a prelude to the discussion which we must immediately resume in the autumn. I believe that if we do not let go, we will continue. In this sense, we also welcome the joint initiatives under these agenda items, but we will, of course, vote against this debate in the autumn in which our own draft legislation has not been adopted by the Committee, but in the spirit of the statements of speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9069	Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9090	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say that this report has been prepared by a working group set up at the initiative of the Federal Chancellor and has, after all, pursued the very ambitious objective of identifying discriminatory provisions within our Federal Law system and having appropriate measures followed. It has already been said several times today that it would be important to include the countries in this process. I should like to say in this regard that I made this report available to the Heads of State or Government at the last national conference in order to raise awareness at this level that it is not only the federal government that is required to search through its laws in this respect, but also that the countries are particularly called upon to do so. In the context of the preparation of this report, it has become clear that it is very important to work with the disabled organisations on this issue. And these too have expressed the wish that the countries will be heavily involved in this process. We have done so on the part of the Federal Government with the presentation of the report and the recommendation to do the same at country level. It is a visible sign – and I think it is an important step – to identify the discriminatory provisions once. In the end, however, further steps must be taken to remedy the relevant measures. I think I can say that one of those proposals for the initiative of Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades, who are voting here today, is a step in the right direction, as this will result in a massive reduction of discrimination in the Rules of Procedure. I think this is an important first step, but it cannot be the last one. This report can only be the basis for further steps in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9126	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has now been reported on the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9151	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Let me begin by expressing my thanks to the officials of the Federal Chancellor's Office, but also to all the disabled organisations and their representatives, who have worked on this comprehensive "total report of the working group on the implementation of the Austrian Federal Code of Law on Disadvantaged Provisions". Today's debate and the various proposals that we will now decide on on this issue are a result of this work, which has taken place over the last one and a half years. As the Secretary of State has just said, Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol's request contains a number of direct improvements to disabled people in the Austrian Rules of Procedure, in the Austrian administration. Thus, deaf and blind people can now receive the appropriate assistance, including in the process. At the same time, this request – it is also a special awareness-building measure – ensures that definitions which are considered discriminatory – and this is right! ..................................................................................................................................... In addition, we are dealing today with an application for an improvement for blind people with regard to the receipt of administrative documents. For even blind people must, if they receive a RSa or RSb letter, take over it themselves or have it taken over by a trusted person. However, if such a letter cannot be delivered because no one is at home, a simple postage note – you all know it, it is yellow, but it is not recognizable to the blind – will be placed in the mailbox. This paper can be very, very easily confused with a cheap advertising brochure and thus lost. So the blind person does not know that he has received an official document, and he may lose some of his rights because he fails to do so. We have now asked in this request for the post to ensure that the notification of official letters contains a clearly recognizable, tangible sign for the blind, so that the person concerned knows that this is not an advertising prospectus but an official notice. Among the discriminations shown in this report was the fact that blind people should not be believers – a provision that is relatively difficult to understand because the witness must be or should be a person who knows what to mourn. Theoretically one can also take a stranger from the street as a witness, but in Austria it is common to ask friends or relatives to witness the wedding act at the office or in the church. This was so far denied to the blind – a provision that was perceived by many blind people as very discriminatory. In fact, this provision states that a person who bears witness must be able to speak the language in which he is married, and in addition his senses must also be powerful. I am very glad that this motion for a resolution calls on the Minister for the Interior to ensure that at least one of the two witnesses can be blind and that this provision, which is perceived as discriminatory by the blind, is finally removed. These proposals also contain improvements for deaf people. It is mainly about the possibility of support from visual texts and deaf interpreters on Austrian television. It is impressive – and you can now observe this here – how incredibly fast and easy to understand for deaf people our normal – what is already "normal"? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We wish this especially for the news broadcasts, but also for some magazine or magazine. The deaf will be grateful for it. We also deal with the issue of the Biomedicine Convention. Mrs Haidlmayr has tabled a request to this effect. This Biomedicine Convention is a convention that, among other things, was negotiated by our Bald Secretary-General Walter Schwimmer in the Council of Europe, would bring improvements to many European countries, but is not undisputed – both in Germany and in Austria – and I therefore think it is very reasonable that this Biomedicine Convention be examined from the Constitutional Service for its constitutional conformity. Thankfully, the content of Mr Kier's request for an anti-discrimination law has already been submitted in more comprehensive form. I think that there is still a need for a number of discussions on implementation in this respect, but I am very pleased that this request, Mr Silhavy, and I and other colleagues, have been made today, ensures that this work continues. Ladies and gentlemen! This is – and I think that is quite, very important – an interim report, even if it does not include "intermediate report". This is an important step towards an equal treatment of people with disabilities, but unfortunately we are far from the goal. We must continue this course, and I hope that it will be possible to take these steps together in the future, as was gratefully possible here in this House in the last four years and before. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we also need to promote awareness-building in people on a daily basis. Laws are important, but we must also bring this anti-discrimination into the minds and hearts of people. Therefore, any initiative that helps to make the lives of disabled people visible and accepted as an equivalent partner is grateful. In this sense I would like to thank my colleague and mayor Kröll from Schladming very much, very much, who not only the Special Olympics xxxo.k. In an impressive report, the Austrian athletes at the Special Olympics were also able to report to Austria. ==References== July 1999 brought 13 gold medals, 10 silver medals and 18 bronze medals home. Congratulations to all these athletes! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] In particular, reporting on this in the Austrian media will clearly show what disabled people are actually capable of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9228	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Chief. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9249	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! I would like to continue where my previous speaker has ended, because most of those medals brought home by the Special Olympics have been won by participants of our Disability Association from Carinthia, who have really cut off three gold medals, four silver medals and a significant number of bronze medals. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Congratulations!]] As the responsible sports and school representative of the town of Spittal on the Drau, I believe that from this point of view I can say a thank you not only to the athletes, but also to those who, in addition to the already quoted Member Kröll, have worked for the Special Olympics in the context of the executive – in particular the executive itself. In my view, this initiative is double impressive because it not only signals that disabled people are given a strong share in the sports life of Austria, but also that physical discipline of the disabled is particularly important for these people and that life with disabilities should be given high priority. But now more to the present matter of law. Ladies and gentlemen! Although some initiatives are being launched in the legislative area for the disabled today, I think we should not forget that there is still much to be done in the area of hearing impaired people in Austria. In my opinion, it is not easy to accept that the people with hearing disabilities in Austria are still clearly disadvantaged, for example in the care allowance, in the classification for the care allowance, although everyone knows that it is particularly important for the people with hearing disabilities to have a corresponding linguistic training in the early childhood, which also requires special effort by parents and those entitled to care, in order to enable these people to have a corresponding linguistic articulation. Those who have not been born with this disability can often not appreciate it properly. In addition, it is still not clear to the disabled that, despite having a card for disabled persons, the corresponding cards must be bought annually – for the Austrian Federal Railways, for example, the advantage card by 250 S – in order to get into the enjoyment of the disabled tickets, because one should actually assume that the disability card should be sufficient in such cases to get into the enjoyment of discounted disabled cards. The same applies to motor vehicles. It is not yet possible for motor vehicles, which are mainly used for the transport of disabled persons, to be equated with those vehicles that buy and direct the disabled themselves. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we still have a great deal to do with legislation in this area; this report is a first list of shortcomings. It is indisputable that countries should also be called upon to become more disabled and to search through their laws and landing regulations in this regard. However, I do not want to hide that I believe it is an indisputable lack that, for example, even if new Federal Government buildings are built, the current Federal Government does not always act as a barrier-friendly. In my own community, for example, in Spittal an der Drau, a new building of the District Court is currently under discussion. However, adapting the old building to the needs of the disabled, in which the Gendarmerie, the Basic Book Department and the Financial Office are still to be accommodated, is not planned in any way! In this regard, I should like to point out that since 1997, the trade union Bau/Holz has been calling for old-age renovations in Austria to be forced, because they are more labour-intensive and therefore more people could obtain employment. In my opinion, this and the next Federal Government could do a lot in this area, namely in the adaptation of official buildings, in order to make these disabled people fit – from schools to universities to court and financial buildings and other buildings in their possession – and thus create a fair share of life in our society not only for the disabled, but also for important jobs. I mean, we have set a starting point with this, but in the end we will not be so soon with the equality of the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9285	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9306	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Fischer very much for having complied with my request that this today's debate be accompanied by sign language interpreters and that it is sometimes made possible for all people to have the opportunity to follow the discussion here in this House. [[It is a pleasure to the Greens, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The first discrimination starts with the fact that, for example, deaf people are still excluded from any communication. There is no chance otherwise of a parliamentary debate on the subject because it seems still not possible to ensure access to this information for the deaf. I wish – and I will continue to do so in the next legislative period – that it will be obvious that, for example for the ORF and for other institutions, deaf people will also have the opportunity to follow up the debates and work in Parliament. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! Mrs. Silhavy! Mrs. Pablo! They have already addressed the report on the enforcement of discriminatory provisions. This report is – not a question! – No doubt showing some discriminatory provisions, but by far not all! Those who regularly visited this working group – and I am one of them – have been able to follow that not all ministries have really worked hard to get through their rules. There are still a few ministries, and as an example I would just like to mention the Ministry of Education, which could not find any discriminatory provisions in its laws – because it did not even try to do so! I remember – it's exactly two years ago – when I was 9. In July 1997, the non-discrimination provision was included in the Austrian Constitution. At the time, all the speakers of the disabled spokespersons said: And now it is about filling this constitutional provision with content, in the form that there should no longer be discrimination! – Two years later, we still have to fight disabled people for every small change. The present proposals of the Coalition Parties are progressing, that is no question. However, it must be said that in terms of changes to discriminatory provisions, you could only be softened so far as it costs nothing. Mrs Silhavy said this very clearly: Equality, yes, but much just doesn't work because it's not supposed to cost anything! – This attitude, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable! There may well be a problem of equal treatment for the disabled, because it is a group of people who have the right to be equalised. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] The discussion of whether the disabled are cheap or expensive, I do not want to have been here in this House, it has already been conducted at the expense of disabled people! [[It is a pleasure to the Greens, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! You said in the Committee that you had therefore just presented those provisions for a change that cost nothing, because it is preferable to you - I quote - that these expenses are used for the valorization of the care allowance. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I agree with this as a first step, because it is discrimination that there has been no valorization of the care allowance for disabled people for years, and it is also discrimination that people in old and disabled homes should live at 562 s a month. I have tabled a motion for a resolution on your proposal for a more sensible use of this money, as you have mentioned it, which means that the Federal Government should take advantage of this opportunity to reverse these discriminatory savings measures. Accordingly, the National Council wants to decide that the Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a government proposal for an amendment to the Federal Carriers Act, which contains the following content: § 5 must be changed and the reduction of the pocket money must be taken back again. It is therefore appropriate to amend § 5, § 12, § 13 and § 47 accordingly and to reverse these discriminatory savings measures. I shall see today in the vote whether it is serious to you that you show today that...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9389	Excuse me, Mrs Haidlmayr, you must read the motion for a resolution on the whole; You can not only point to the individual points. Please, if you could make up for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9407	The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! With an agreement on this motion for a resolution, the Commission will be able to: They prove that you are serious about reducing these discriminations. I have also tabled a request concerning the creation of a law on the equal treatment of disabled persons, because it is not enough if individual passages in our legislation are exempted from discriminatory provisions, but it is exclusively about the need for a comprehensive anti-discrimination law covering the problems of all groups of disabled persons in Austria. That is why I put forward a second request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of disabled people in Austria, I would ask you to give your consent to these two motions for resolutions. To the Biomedical Convention, I would like to stress that it is a merit of the Greens and of me that it has not, as it were, gone through Parliament silently and has been ratified. We disabled people in Austria will be very careful to see whether the Additional Protocol still makes it possible for medical interventions to be carried out on persons unable to consent. I would also like to remind you that you promised exactly two years ago that the forced sterilization of mentally disabled women in Austria must finally end. To date, however, nothing has happened in this respect; the forced sterilization of mentally disabled women is still legal. Finally, I would like to address the situation of deaf people in Austria. In my opinion, Austria cannot afford to have the sign language as a language. As long as Parliament is not prepared to recognize the sign language as a language, the media will not be prepared to introduce the sign language. Parliament has to take this step, and Parliament has to ensure that discrimination against deaf people finally ceases. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I promise you: As long as I do politics as long as I am a member of the House, you will have no peace in front of me until there is finally a comprehensive disability equalisation law – whether the countries want or not! We disabled people need such a law! And you have to ensure that it is implemented too! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not allow this working group to be reopened, so to speak, so that the countries will have the opportunity to search through their laws. They have had the possibility, but have not used it. Now they simply have to bear the consequences, and because of a comprehensive German law on disability equalisation, you have to remove the discriminatory provisions anyway. I would also like to ask Mr Wittmann a question. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (with a view to the empty government bank)]] I would like to ask him how he maintains it or what he has to say about the fact that special cultural sites are not accessible to the disabled. I would just like to give a single example and remind you that the State Opera, in which thousands of people are sitting, has only two disabled seats! Those who want to reserve one of these places must try to do so a year before. These public discriminations, for which the Federal Government is responsible, could, if the Federal Government wanted to, be in the past as early as tomorrow. It should only support my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9544	The two motions for resolutions just read have been properly tabled, duly supported and are under negotiation. The debate is closed, as no one has made any mention of this. There is also no final word on the part of the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, with each of the Committee's proposals being made separately. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report III-178 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. [[Interlocutory calls, which draw attention to the fact that Abg. Haidlmayr hasn't returned to her place yet.]] - Excuse me. [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! Where did the Secretary of State disappear?]] – I am not responsible for the presence or absence of the Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies. [[Abg. Grabner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) You weren't there all the time! Master Teacher!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're talking nonsense, let's come to the film! Where is the Secretary of State? The Federal Chancellor was not there, nor was the State Secretary to represent him! He was not even at the end of the debate! You can see how the Social Democratic Party appreciates the issue of disabled people!]] [[Further calls in all political groups, calls and calls between the SPÖ and the liberals.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Wittmann returns to the meeting room and takes place again on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr President. It's all right!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] So we are now starting the voting procedure and voting separately on each of the Committee's motions; I shall only remind you of that. We shall first vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of the III-178 report of the Supplements. In the case of consultation, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the creation of a law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 2034 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent to this draft law, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This approval is unanimous. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done in a single light. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 2034. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done in a single light. The request was accepted. (E 199.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Silhavy, Mr Rauch-Kallat, Dr Partik-Pablé, Dr. Kier and comrades on further measures to ensure the equality of the disabled. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is one-bright the case. Accepted. (E 200.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the amendment of the Federal Caring Act. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the 2035 Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done in a single light. Accepted. (E 201.) We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its 2036 report of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report III-195 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 2038 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is one-bright the case. Accepted. (E 202.) Vote on agenda items 5 to 7
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9718	We now proceed to the postponement of the vote on Agenda items 5 to 7, which we want to take separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law in 2039 of the supplements. There is a request from Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades for a separate vote. There is also a request from the honourable Member, Mag. Stoisits and comrades on separate votes. We shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article I(4). 3 as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule V and Rule VI as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also want to give the draft law an appropriate sign at third reading. – This is the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the 2039 Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 198.) We shall also vote on the draft law in 2040. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stoisits and comrades submit an additional request. In addition, MEPs have tabled an additional amendment or amendment to Schieder, Morak, Dr. Krüger and Comrades. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Schieder, Morak, Dr. Krüger and Comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new point 3d concerning § 17 para. 1 refers. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new point 3d regarding § 19a and a new point 3e concerning § 20 para. Paragraph 1 refers. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Schieder, Morak, Dr. Krüger and Comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph 7a concerning § 25a para. 1 refers. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Schieder, Morak, Dr. Krüger and Comrades have tabled an amendment to point 8(26) para. 7,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. Finally, at the end of this voting procedure, we shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 2041 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority of the case. The report has been taken note of. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades to the Federal Chancellor on "Euroteam" (6564/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9876	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now arriving, at 3 p.m., for urgent consideration of the written question 6564/J. As this question has now been addressed to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10093	I should like to ask Mr Oellinger as the first questioner according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure to justify the request. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10114	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! – Mr State Secretary, today you are taking part in this debate with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but that is not our desire. Nor is it what the Federal Chancellor promised this House to do, because last week, in a press release by the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Federal Chancellor explained that Parliament had many possibilities to become active. If that happens, the chancellor will not withdraw from it. This was in an issue of the APA last week, and with this the Federal Chancellor has declared that he will take part in every debate that this House calls on him to participate in the Causa "Euroteam" and account for this Parliament. I would like to stress that we do not agree with the fact that only the Secretary of State, in the representative of the Federal Chancellor, is holding this debate here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He doesn't trust himself!]] Mr State Secretary! Whenever it comes to delicate matters of the Federal Chancellor, you will be sent forward. We can already imagine that this is not funny for you either. But in this causa we are dealing with today, it is not only about not being funny, but also about the fact that the Federal Chancellor is personally and politically involved in the Causa "Euroteam" via his cabinet. Mr State Secretary! This is a question that we cannot clarify with you and do not want to clarify, because the Federal Chancellor and his personal responsibility have been addressed. This is not the matter of the Secretary of State. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr State Secretary! As you have had to carry out such delicate debates in place of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany here, we can already imagine that you are getting something like a risk allowance or an emergency supplement. Because it cannot be particularly pleasant for you, Mr State Secretary, for you to take account of this responsibility here on a matter of political responsibility instead of the Chancellor, who personally – and I will carry out that too – for him. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm on the subject. ==References== August 1997 the Federal Chancellor on the show "The thing special" – I quote – explains: I've taken care of it. We have set up some kind of apprenticeship hotline where any company that wants to take in apprentices can call. We will continue to communicate this to the respective training centre, to the care centre in the federal states. I would also call you now, during the show, to call. This apprentice hotline is occupied. There, establishments can call under number 0660/311 960. - Quote. This Declaration by the Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. August took place in connection with other statements by the Federal Chancellor, she was immediately his first speech on the subject. He said it was about youth employment. The Federal Government has already set up a number of initiatives in accordance with the Rust government clause. He then carried out the following: Now the apprentice hotline is going on. – What he has forgotten is that this given number had nothing to do with the Federal Government, but was a phone hotline of the SPÖ. I emphasize: A SPÖ telephone hotline whose number was displayed by the Federal Chancellor via Insert in connection with representations of the government. After a few days and great concentration of all the bodies involved – because this was of course also discussed via the media – the Social Ministry then tried to set up its own hotline and has already propagated it via the media. However, it has been shown that this hotline, which the Social Ministry wanted to use, was already in operation as an apprentice hotline, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which this hotline number has already used for apprentices in recent months. Therefore, this plan of a new hotline, which was actually an old one, was dropped again, and after a few days the SPÖ hotline was also converted by a government decision into a government hotline, with a new number. And that's the number we all know: 0660/1996 was the hotline number already used by the company "Euroteam" or in the framework of projects. With this I am at the association or the company conglomerate "Euroteam", which plays a non-irrelevant role in connection with this Causa. "Euroteam" was founded in 1992. At first, there was nothing at all. In 1994 the first visible activities of "Euroteam" started in the run-up to the EU's referendum, i.e. the vote on accession to the European Community. At that time, "Euroteam" made advertising for the SPÖ in the context of an advertising campaign for joining the EU and invited prominent members of the SPÖ and the Federal Government to a celebration in the nightclub, including the then Transport Minister climate and the current woman city councillor Ederer; at that time she was still a State Secretary. This was already a visible indication of where "Euroteam" had positioned. In 1994 there were no other activities, with one exception: Mr. Stühlpfarrer – and a second person with him – has produced a so-called study on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs. This study then appears later because it is intended to justify the supposed unique reputation of "Euroteam". We had the opportunity in the Subcommittee to look at this study in fact. This study covers approximately 2 000 pages and consists of around 95 per cent copies of official European Community papers. The future rest is the own production of "Euroteam". The future rest consists of a preface, a instructions for use, a thanksgiving and what could be the actual sub-contractor, namely a comparison of European professional positions with the corresponding professional profiles in Austria in a form which I would say is not very satisfactory. For this study, "Euroteam" has collected around 430 000 S. In 1995, "Euroteam" – at the time we were a member of the European Community – became a little more active. "Euroteam" began to submit funding requests to various bodies. At the same time, a new Executive Board was elected to Euroteam in 1995. This did not belong to Mr. Gerstbauer – now in the cabinet of the Federal Minister – but consisted of and consists of the following previously active gentlemen: Mr. Stichtparbarrer, Mr. Bernthaler, an employee of the later cabinet climate, Mr. David Mock, Mr. Jan Klima, the son of Mr. Bundeskanzler, and Mr. Reinhold Eckhardt, the employee of the SPÖ Action Office. This was the activity of Euroteam at the club level in 1995. At the same time – I have already said that – these requests for support took place. It is very interesting to see where the projects were initially submitted. One of the first projects was the PROFESSIONET project, and we will come to talk about it. A second project was a project at the Austrian National Bank. There, too, the anniversary fund of the Austrian National Bank, is submitted for funding. Do you know, Mr Parnigoni? - I know. This project has been submitted temporarily from 1995 to the end of 1996. After an information I collected from the National Bank a few days ago, this project by "Euroteam" has still not been completed. Unfortunately, I have not been able to provide any information on when this project will be completed, although the duration of the project for projects of the Jubilee Fund is limited to four years. Now these four years are over, ladies and gentlemen. "Euroteam" should or should have completed this project. I'm continuing in chronology. In 1996, a European election took place in Austria, and in the run-up to this European election "Euroteam" has become active again. It has approached public decision-makers, opinion makers, and has said: We want to do something about the European elections. – In fact, something has been done for the SPÖ. At the same time, however, a hotline was also offered by "Euroteam", which was made available free of charge for this European election by "Euroteam". What "Euroteam" obviously has forgotten is that a hotline was also part of the project PROFESSIONET, which had already begun in 1996, so that there was obviously a private use of services from public promoters under different positions. The PROFESSIONET project was launched in 1996 and the activity of "Euroteam" is slowly developing. There are further requests for funding, but the actual coup succeeds "Euroteam" in 1997, in which it can land the giant contract within the framework of the apprenticeship offensive. It is therefore a huge task – I say: a huge task – because it is not only about the task of the Federal Chancellor's Office, about the contract of work under the Federal Chancellor's Office, but also about a closely intertwined task of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Bundes-AMS. The Bundes-AMS says: No, that doesn't belong to our activities. The Ministry of Social Affairs says: Yes, you must do this! The AMS says: We do not want to do this, it is not one of the labour market policy activities! – It is also documented in the minutes of the Subcommittee. The Ministry of Social Affairs persuades the AMS to carry out this task by taking over the costs. It was clear from the very beginning that the AMS will not and should carry out this task, but of course the company "Euroteam". This was only a 3-million schilling project within the framework of the apprenticeship offensive in 1997. With the next year – this order was repeated – it was then 6 million. All in all, orders to "Euroteam" within the framework of the apprenticeship offensive – only the close contracts – amount to around 15 million schillings. Why do I mention that? – Because it commissioned a company that had no qualifications in this sector at that time, except for the 1994 study I have already tried to describe. There was no experience of "Euroteam" in this area at all. But the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs said: They are unique, they are the only ones in Europe that can carry out such contracts. In 1997, however, something else happened. In a first interim report on the PROFESSIONET project, the AMS criticised the existence of shortcomings. Let's continue to 1998. "Euroteam" will again be concerned with contracts under the apprenticeship offensive. After the PROFESSIONET project was completed in March 1998, "Euroteam" provides a final report and a final settlement in November. A review of the AMS shows that there are severe criticisms and deficiencies in 130 points. One of these 130 points is, for example, the calculation of more than 30 flights. So to speak, the AMS throws back over 20 and says: They have nothing to do with the project at all. – Another of these 130 points is a collection of almost 40 café calculations, of which "Euroteam" then says: All right, let's take them back, we obviously got wrong. I just mention this to illustrate to you the quality of this work by "Euroteam". It's about double billing. There has been an attempt to put this project PROFESSIONET into a bit, which has already been tried to calculate in another project – "Telework Market". It's about wrong bills. It is about the fact that "Euroteam" did not claim revenue from the project – for example in the case of ads – and did not submit it to the project, but tried to make these revenues disappear from "Euroteam" in other pots. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not small things, and that was already known in 1998. But no one took care of it. Let's get together: In 1998, there is already severe criticism of "Euroteam". The projects do not work. The projects take a lot longer. The projects cannot be completed. On the one hand, we still have the Federal Chancellor, who, with the alleged successes of the apprenticeship offensive, is putting himself on the stand, as well as the staff of the Climate Cabinet who have given these orders to "Euroteam". On the other hand, we have the same members of the Climate Cabinet, who perform functions in the various divisions of this corporate conglomerate. To this end, we have the company "Euroteam" itself, which has managed to establish a company conglomerate. That's very interesting. [[The speaker draws up a sheet of paper on which a graphic is pictured with a representation of company intertwinements, at the front of the speaker's desk.]] This is this company conglomerate of "Euroteam"; the picture comes from today's edition of the "Press". This is interesting because, unlike the majority in the subcommittee, the press has managed to make this presentation correctly. On the other hand, the majority of the subcommittee – the government groups – has not yet done so. It is alleged that the company conglomerate "Euroteam" works in such a way that the public contracts and promotions received by the "Euroteam" are completely unprofitable by "Euroteam". [[Abg. Koppler: "Instant"! You said "advertising"!]] There is only money that comes from the private proceeds of the corporate conglomerate of "Euroteam". Take a closer look at this private corporate conglomerate of "Euroteam"! Which are these supposedly profitable parts of "Euroteam" with which the public projects are promoted? [[The speaker points to individual parts of the graphics during the following sentences.]] There is a deposit – a minority stake – in "Radio ID", of which the liberals also suspect that the Greens are under a cover with "Euroteam". Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, I can calm you down! On the one hand, there is a real estate exploitation company operated by "Euroteam" and supposedly also belongs to the profitable parts of this corporate conglomerate, although it has only a 40-square-metre apartment to use. There is a consultative society that obviously acquires and re-enters the remaining millions. There is the relatively new foundation of the Call Center Burgenland, together with the company TBK. Ladies and gentlemen! Where do the millions of Euroteams come from? – We Greens tell you: It works exactly the other way around. There are also evidences for this. From public contracts, from public funding, a relatively refined construction and the extraction of so-called "Euroteam" partners is tried to withdraw the public procurement from the money and to serve "Euroteam" through the association, which still cannot raise its parent capital and its deposits. It is not uninteresting to read, for example, a 1997 Euroteam budget plan. This makes it quite clear that money, commissions, which could be achieved through public contracts, should not benefit public contracts and support projects, but should, on the way through this association, again feed the companies – the deposits – and thus the profitable parts. Mr State Secretary! I am here at the point where the Federal Chancellor's responsibility begins. All of this has happened in the area of the Federal Chancellor – and if not with his full knowledge, but under his political responsibility. Because the members of the Climate Cabinet have also known because they themselves are involved in this corporate conglomerate. Mr. Gerstbauer was also involved in one of these sub-contractors until 1997, Ms. Federal Minister, namely as Supervisory Board in the "Study Studies Company". [[Abg. Edler: That's all messed up!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The members of the Climate Cabinet also had to know about this. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is about the political responsibility of the Federal Chancellor. However, he abstains from this debate and is not prepared to address the questions that we have asked him in connection with "Euroteam", the urgent questions that are urgent because they address the responsibility of a German chancellor who has tried to boast with an apprenticeship offensive and also with "Euroteam". [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Edler]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's none of his business!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] This responsibility does not solve the German Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen. That is why it is unacceptable for the Federal Chancellor not to take part in this debate!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10244	I have a speech on Mrs Petrovic's business. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10265	Mr President. High house! The Federal Chancellor is not apologised for today's meeting or not as averted. I think the statements by Karl Oellinger have shown very clearly that this is a very personal intervention of the Federal Chancellor in relation to the members of his cabinet or family members. [["Where?"- Call at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Captain for Gaunery?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] I therefore urge - we had hoped that he would take the opportunity to appear at this meeting - that we would interrupt the meeting to discuss this causa, the absence of the Federal Chancellor. In the event, I would report to the Rules of Procedure once again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10310	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! Article 78(1) 2 of the Federal Constitution is clear. Parliamentary representation by the State Secretary does not require any prevention. I'll give you a second one to consider: There have already been one or two cases of other opposition groups this year in which the Federal Chancellor was represented by Mr State Secretary. You will understand that I cannot be blamed: In the case of one group, the representation by the Secretary of State is accepted, with the other not. [[Abg. Gaugg: But he is personally involved!]] In terms of content, it is not my business. [[Abg. Gaugg: How deep is he in there? With this Jan Klima?]] [[Further calls.]] Does this second word message succeed in another matter? Or are you making a different request now? Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10358	I would be very much in favour of assessing this material in itself. There is also a standing use of the house to allow the wish of a club chairman to be interrupted. If this is not the case, according to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, to which the National Council intends to decide: The presence of the Federal Chancellor in this debate may be called for.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10389	Mr Scheibner has spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10410	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You have already mentioned it: My group has also been more often confronted with the fact that the Federal Chancellor has been represented by the Secretary of State on our own initiative in the interests of our control rights. This may be acceptable in terms of business regulations and also within the meaning of the Federal Constitution, but should be the exception. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's it!]] Today we have a matter in which the Federal Chancellor is personally addressed and personally affected. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's a premise!]] Mr Parnigoni. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. He also found it worth noting at any meeting of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, although he had announced it, to be present. Now there is also the opportunity for the Federal Chancellor to comment on all these accusations. That is why I agree with the request that the Federal Chancellor should appear here. I would also think it justified that we are interrupting the sitting to discuss the further procedure in a presidial position.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10462	Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10483	Mr President. I would ask that this case, before voting on the request, actually be discussed in a presidious position, because I also believe that this is not just about the Rules of Procedure, but also about the seriousness of Parliament and about a kind of political culture. It is rarely so much the case that the presence of the Federal Chancellor – and I say so too – is necessary for personal response. For there is a suspicion that public funds have at least been transferred to the Federal Chancellor's personal staff, also to the social minister's staff, and that there might be family conditions to be clarified. All of this together warrants it beyond the Rules of Procedure to demand the personal presence of the Federal Chancellor. It is clear to me that a vote on this issue here in the House is a clear result. But in order to discuss Parliament's serious action, I thought it was good that we should talk about it again at the club head level before.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10514	Ladies and gentlemen! I asked this morning for an appropriate expression in an expression by Mr Jung, who could or could not be accepted, for peace during this last week of the sitting. I think that the legal situation is perfectly clear. There is a request from Mrs Petrovic to the vote. But in order to prevent the climate from heating up, although it may not be necessary to do so when we have heard the Secretary of State – I do not know – I am going to interrupt the meeting very briefly. I would ask the five chairmen to speak to me and then vote on the amendments. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 15.27 a.m. and resumed at 15.33 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10547	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. We have found that we have no disagreements about the handling of the Rules of Procedure, but the evaluations of the political aspects or the points of use are different by us. It is clear that there is a vote on Mrs Petrovic's request, which she has put forward. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mrs Petrovic's request, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, § 18 para. 3. to demand the presence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for the ongoing debate. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this request give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application was therefore rejected. [[Call the liberals: The ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Socialists!]] Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. The first speaker will then be Mr Van der Bellen. Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch also spoke in this debate. Please, Mr State Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10602	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government acknowledges that everything must be done to ensure that 15-year-old school leavers are not on the street. They should be given a fair chance for a successful professional life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the apprenticeship offensive had not been carried out, many thousands of school leavers would have stood on the road, as forecast both in 1997 and 1998. [[Abg. Gaugg: You have done nothing to prevent them from standing on the street! "Euroteam" used only money!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the success of the apprenticeship offensive is not only based on the use of public funds. A whole set of measures has been put in place. For example, I would like to remind you of the change in vocational training law, the introduction of new teaching professions, the introduction of vocational training exams and information campaigns. All of this together has caused us to have over 39 000 starters in 1998 and more than 3 000 young people in good training places on the reception network. In total, more than 42 000 young people have started vocational training. This has led to the balance of apprenticeships in May and June 1999. 2 100 job seekers are available to approximately 2 000 apprenticeships. Two years earlier, before the beginning of this offensive, there were 37,000 young people compared with 39,000 in 1998, and the trend continued to decline. Ladies and gentlemen! The apprenticeship offensive will be continued, and it will be continued successfully. We will also be able this year to give all young people a chance to have a training place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will continue the reforms to ensure the existence of dual apprenticeship training in the long term. Now to the individual points of your urgent inquiry. As far as the Federal Chancellor's competence is concerned, I will address your questions on a point-by-point basis. On those points where this is not the case and where a competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs has been given, I would ask the Minister of State to give an opinion in the context of the discussion. In detail, I answer the questions as follows: Question 1: In view of the many young people who left school in 1997 and did not find a teaching place, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in his capacity as party chairman of the SPÖ, held on television on 31 December 1997. A joint solidarity effort was called on August 1997 to secure the future of youth. He asked all companies and businesses willing to take up apprentices to contact the SPÖ's Bureau of Action. The number of the action agency 0660/311 960, which can be reached at the local rate, was published. [[Abg. Fischl: That's really strong!]] ==References== At coalition level, it was then agreed on September 1997 to set up an immediate government hotline within the framework of the apprenticeship initiative. The SPÖ hotline has not been announced or applied for within the framework of the measures of the Federal Government. It was no longer used by SPÖ as an information number for the apprenticeship offensive after the decision to establish a government hotline. It is of course in line with the political culture that a hotline of a government party cannot at the same time be a hotline of the Federal Government. The government hotline was commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. The number of the hotline was 0660/1996. ==References====External links== Advisory Society for European Integration Questions GmbH established in 1020 Vienna, Praterstraße 70. Following the implementation of a call for tender by this company, this hotline was continued under the same number by the Call Center TBK, Salzburg. ==References====External links== A few days later, the SPÖ's action bureau's hotline was set up in September 1997 to set up a government hotline. On Question No 2, I would like to point out the following facts: I would like to expressly stress that on that by the Federal Chancellery to the L.S. It was not necessary to apply the Federal Procurement Act, since the award value of ECU 200 000 was not exceeded without VAT. I should like to remind you that the equivalent of ECU 200 000 without VAT is not converted by the Federal Chancellery itself, but rather the equivalent is announced in the federal law paper, namely in the BGBl. II No 22/1998. Thus 200 000 ECU 2 703 676 p. The award rules would not have been complied with if this amount had been exceeded exclusively by VAT. In September 1997, the Federal Chancellery has a framework agreement with the L.S. ==References====External links==* Official website September 1997 to 30. A maximum rate of 1 638 000 S was decided on June 1998 and a maximum rate of 1 638 000 S exclusive VAT. In view of the situation of apprenticeships and the need for the continuation of the apprenticeship offensive in 1998, this Treaty was adopted in 1998 to 30. ==References====External links== Maximum charge for the period of service 1. ==References== In June 1999, exclusive VAT was agreed with 1 050 000 S. If you sum up both maximum charges, then a total of 2 688 000 S of exclusive VAT. This means that the whole fee is clearly and indisputably below the above-mentioned threshold. The total amount of 3 225 600 S mentioned in the urgent request corresponds to the total amount of VAT charged by the Federal Chancellery. However, it is incontrovertible that the threshold in the Federal Procurement Act is understood without VAT. Question 2 (b) I cannot give an opinion because this project was carried out in the field of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. The Federal Ministers will continue to address this. Question 3: At the time of the conclusion of the contract with the L.S. The consultative company does not know that the persons mentioned in the request have functions at "Euroteam". Neither Mr. David Mock nor Mr. Thomas Drozda have notified the Federal Chancellery of functions or activities in "Euroteam". According to the information available to the Federal Chancellery, Mag. Drozda at the time in question no function at "Euroteam". According to the information available to the Federal Chancellery, Mr. Mock was led in 1995 as a member of the Board of Directors at "Euroteam – Verein zur Information on European Integration". But he was neither entitled to draw, nor ever received money from "Euroteam". Neither Mr. Mock nor Mr. Drozda have signed a contract with the L.S. Advisory society points to a function in the "Euroteam" or a conflict of interest. As regards the reporting of secondary employment, the Contracting Staff Act must be applied to persons who are not in a civil service relationship. According to § 8 of the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Contracting Officer shall report only one employment by-employment which exceeds the expected duration of four weeks. An extension of reporting obligations is 1. In January 1999, the Council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the Where there was no cash benefit, there was no breach of reporting obligations. Question 4: On the side of the Federal Chancellor's Office, Mr. Stuhlpfärr was not appointed as the apprentice officer of the Federal Government. He was also not a member of the Federal Government. It was with the L.S. A project management contract is concluded by the consulting company, according to which the contractor can use Mr. Stühlpärer or a qualified person with the same status as a manager for the execution of the project. Question 5: It may be repeated that according to the contract with the L.S. The consulting company can not only be used by the contractor for the project, but also by a qualified person. On the side of the L.S. In the course of the billing of the hours, precise time records were submitted, including the nature of the activity carried out. On question 6: The appointment of a call centre falls within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. The Federal Ministers will give an opinion on this. Question 7: Neither the Federal Chancellery nor the Federal Chancellor was known in September 1997 to establish a joint subsidiary of TBK and Euroteam. The "Euroteam" has not referred to this circumstance either the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor. Whether this also applies to the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs is my knowledge. There has not been a contract between the Federal Chancellery and the Euroteam concerning the Call Center. Questions 8 and 9: As the appointment of the Call Center also falls within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, the Federal Minister will comment on this. Question 10: In the first place, I would like to point out that companies have never been applied for in the course of the apprenticeship offensive. Rather, it is true that firms that have recruited apprentices have declared themselves willing to advertise for the apprenticeship offensive of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Gaugg: This argument is certainly adventurous!]] I would also like to point out that, as part of the advertising calls, not only the companies and companies mentioned in the urgent request, but also 67 companies in total are expressly mentioned, of which 32 companies have been mentioned, how many apprentices have recruited them. The urgent request mentions seven companies that are to be in a close relationship with "Euroteam". Furthermore, this was not known to the Federal Chancellery so far. It is therefore not possible to speak of a conspicuous accumulation of "Euroteam" business partners in the ads. On the question 11: The firm's commitment to the employment of additional apprentices was crucial to the selection of the companies. The companies mentioned in this question were 7 out of a total of 67, which were characterised by special commitment in this area. Question 12: The proposals of the companies to be mentioned in the advertising series were reimbursed by the project manager to the Federal Press Office in the Federal Chancellery. The Federal Press Office has agreed to the proposals. The company Mark & Nevosad was responsible for the graphic implementation on behalf of the Federal Press Service. The L.S. The consulting company and the project manager, Mr. Stichtparbarrer, were therefore included in the selection of the companies, since this was the subject of the contract. Neither the L.S. Mr. Stichtpfarbarer also drew the attention of the Federal Chancellery to a special business relationship with "Euroteam" in the reimbursement of the proposals to mention these companies in the advertisements. Questions 13 and 14: Neither the Federal Chancellor's Office nor the Federal Chancellor was aware of the AMS' failure detection in the calculation of the PROFESSIONET project. Question 15: Since the PROFESSIONET project falls within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, it is not possible to comment on the points of question 15. In principle, however, every initiative should be welcomed, regardless of the institution that is seeking to create additional apprenticeships. We will continue our efforts in 1999 to enable all apprentices on the labour market to be trained and to keep this problem under control.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10698	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. We are now entering the debate. Mr Van der Bellen spoke. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10726	Mr State Secretary! You really need a hardship allowance. You have made here a legally pointed, politically insignificant statement. I understand that it is contrary to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make such a statement himself, namely that he does not dare to come here in order to make an insignificant statement with these words. [[Congratulation with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Young.]] Mr State Secretary! All of this had not been known, so history must be all right. It should only be reported that there are work side-by-side activities. So everything is okay with these gentlemen from the ministerial offices, you said. There is no apprentice from the Federal Government. This can't be there, because the company was commissioned. – This I call legally mischievous and politically absolutely innocuous. [[Abg. Gaugg: Not even hot!]] Maybe not particularly mischievous, can be. Or: As you said, what you answered to Question 11, I didn't get it at all. The accumulation of close-to-company designations in the ads has so far not been known to the Federal Chancellery, and therefore one cannot speak of conspicuous accumulation. – This logic is a bit strange. This accumulation is really strange, that is probably not a question at all. This applies in particular to case 11a, with ten circuits. How many apprentices did Dr. Winternitz, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of "Euroteam Beteiligungsverwaltungs AG" employ? None at all – or one, as much as I know. Ten ads – one apprentice. Good. Mr State Secretary! I am now sending you a number of questions, which I would of course have addressed to the Federal Chancellor. But if he's not there, I'll have to turn her over to you. These questions concern the delicate history of his son, Dipl.-Ing. Jan Klima. Mr Jan Klima has informed the Subcommittee that he was sometimes asked whether he wanted to become auditors at this association, but he had never been informed that this was the case then, and he had not set up any such activities, got nothing paid and so on. At the "Euroteam" Association Burgenland, he was not even asked if he wanted to, but just used him as an accountant by "Euroteam". [[Abg. Fischl: This "good" boy!]] We have no reason to doubt this statement by Mr Jan Klima, as I would like to expressly stress it. But what kind of association is this, I wonder, who doesn't even inform his auditors of their choice? I mean, this association with all its subdivisions – Karl Ollinger has already shown the complicated graph – which has received public orders of 40 million schilling, will probably need auditors. Have the auditors never been there in the four or five years since Jan Klima was on the paper accountant? End The association has auditors, but the invoices are not audited. Has there been any other auditors? At any rate, that is, Jan Klima, has not checked. Was there anyone else? Has anyone checked that? But at the end of the day these are legal details, which are intended to examine the "Euroteam", the Federal Chancellery or the Social Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! What surprises me is the following: If my name of any association would be used in this way, if anyone said that Van der Bellen is cashier or auditor or newspaper issuer, no matter what, without asking me without informing me, in a non-hazardous thing about administration, about the use of public funds or funds from the EU or from Austria, then I would be bulging game, wouldn't I? Or don't you, Pepi Cap? - Sure! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Sure!]] "Well, sure," you say now. Is Jan Klima Fuchsteufelswild? Is his father, Viktor Climate, Fuchsteufelswild? Do you know what I would have done? – I would have put a lawyer in the game, I would have ordered a lawyer and told him: Please be careful that my good name will be damaged, as I am at risk of costs being incurred because of non-perception of a task, namely auditing. It can not only be damaged my reputation, but also my money tax. I would have said all of this, and I would have called upon this association and the Lord's House-Parrestor – and as they all are called – to reverse it immediately. I would have said: Give me guarantees that I am not harmed by this course of action! Is that how Jan Klima got away with it? – If he did, I don't know. I also wonder: Why? Can't he defend himself? – He can only defend himself by automatically attacking the company or the association "Euroteam" and its dozens of companies. You have to see that very clearly. Can't he? [[Abg. Young: If so, why?]] [[Abg. Fischl: (in the direction of the Abg. Because he's a good boy!]] This question is open, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. But it's not just that. It is not a hypothetical question, whether or not the name climate is damaged there. I would advise you to read Mr Oellinger's dissent or to the public prosecutor's presentation of the matter. I don't read this in detail, but I can only remind you of the following: 349 counseling hours for a lawyer! Do you know what a lawyer's hour costs? The consultant also needs a vis-à-vis, which will be advised. Multiply this once with 2 000, 3 000 S! The lawyer must have a head shot if he can be advised in such a story for so long to hire an apprentice. This isn't in need of information? The name Klima as an accountant doesn't hang in there? I am saving you all the stories with the double calculations, but only so that you can see it once – Mr Kiss always complains that he cannot see this from this distance, but in this case the optical picture, Mr Kiss, is enough – I will show you Mr. Ollinger's different opinion. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] You can read that. Comparison You left and right! R inks and l really, as the poets say. Identical. Please, we have enough lawyers here in the hall. I ask you: Is that not a copyright infringement? Isn't that theft of intellectual property? This is what the Euroteam is doing! And Mr. Jan can't resist climate? I don't understand! Where's the call from the SPÖ, where's the massive removal? Why doesn't anybody say: No, we have nothing to do with this company!Unknown term type: "%s".? Where does this confession remain? Or are you really so deep inside? What is there about this picture with the two pictures around? Do I have to explain what this is all about? It sees a depth at first glance what it's all about! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] But you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, make these people there the wall. You have this feeling. They're doing the wall to them. Otherwise, I cannot understand the opinion of the Secretary of State. What's that supposed to mean? You have to explain this to the public. You don't need to explain it to me, but the public needs to explain how this is possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The thing smells! You can't deny that! A look at a sheet of paper is sufficient. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10847	The next speaker is Mrs. Hostasch. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10869	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks on the preliminary remarks of the urgent question, allow me to make a few supplementary explanations and then give a concrete answer to the open questions. In the introductory remarks, we are talking about the sustainability of subsidies. In 1997 and 1997 the German Labour Market Service promoted personal support for initial integration into the labour market, which was generally limited to the first year of teaching. The sustainability of this measure is clear, as already implemented, since in 1998 a total of 3 870 people were more in the dual system than in the previous year. This means that the firms continued to employ the apprentices without funding after the first year of training. [[Abg. Gaugg: This is about "Euroteam" about the abuse of taxpayers' money!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to answer the urgent question, and in this these notes have been made. I regret that you do not want to hold an objective but just a demagogic discussion here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should also like to say very clearly, when we are talking about sustainability, that it is correct and right and that it will be right in the future to put in place additional measures. In 1997, a volume of 1.1 billion schilling was used for the apprenticeship initiative, and 18 000 cases of funding were carried. That is, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, per youth per anno, for this one year, was spent 59 000 s. I think it is worth investing this money in order to prevent young people from standing on the streets and having no perspective! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to give a brief opinion on the conclusion of the Social Ministry's projects with the "Euroteam" or with the "Euroteam" group. The three projects on the apprenticeship offensive I and II as well as the study 1994 have been completed and finally settled, with a total of 146 337 S less for disbursement than originally planned after the final settlement. Allow me now to look at the 1994 study in a little more detail, as both by Mr Oellinger and by Mr Deputies Van der Bellen was very strongly referred to this study. The starting point was that accession to the EEA brought about the free movement of persons and services. In order to ensure the placement of work in the European area, it was then necessary to provide information on the comparability of qualifications for Austrians in the other EEA countries on the one hand and nationals of those countries to Austria on the other. This should be done through a study based on the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP). Content of the contract was to compare 226 Austrian professional images with 209 European professional images. In doing so, systematic allocations had to be made and additions and correlations drawn up. The complexity of the subject area is derived from research activities, the comparison of the individual occupational images and also positions. As a result of this study, it is a manual on European professionalism based on a study as a work aid for employment placement in Europe. In this way, European careers were listed and coordinated with Austrian tradesmen. Where necessary, the Austrian specifications were noted, for example, when Austrian professional profiles were above or below EU requirements. In those professional profiles where conformity has been established, no comment has been made, and therefore at first glance the impression that nothing has been processed here. However, this procedure means that there has nevertheless been an analysis and a comparison with the Austrian situation where no comments have been made. In my opinion, the inclusion in the text of the corresponding official papers of the European Community in this compendium constitutes an appropriate form of an overall review of the legal bases at European level and a simplified access to information for the necessary advisory services. For European employment, this was an important and necessary document, and it is understandable, highly valued ladies and gentlemen, that the work pictures were systematically carried out and not only, as was claimed, copied official papers. This is recognizable because the respective comparisons were recorded in the official papers themselves. For the presentation of the study – and I do not want to hide that – there would certainly have been another process, another process possible. Nevertheless, I believe it is crucial that the purpose of the work be achieved, and it has been achieved with this study – through this manual, which makes possible an comprehensible, verifiable assessment and assessment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can now come to answer the still open questions without repeating them again. On question 2b: It is completely undisputed – and this has also been presented in the Subcommittee by me and my employees – that a "Euroteam" order was not previously signed, although the threshold value had been exceeded. The legal basis for this procedure is § 80 para. 3 of the contract law. The explanatory statement was presented in detail in the subcommittee, but also in the act, and was reviewed by the internal revision of my section. Members and former members of "Euroteam" have not affected this process; I would like to make it clear with all clarity. As the main argument in the context of this award, the risk of delaying damage to the success of the project should be mentioned. If the forecasts had risen and 10,000 young people had remained without perspective, this would not only have had a direct impact on social security systems, but also – and I consider this to be absolutely crucial – the personal career of thousands of young people would have been adversely affected. Thus, the additional acquisition of apprenticeships, the development of additional sectors and the development of new occupations was an hour's commandment, and it was necessary to act quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The price-performance ratio is, in our opinion, to be considered appropriate. I would like to mention right now – you will know – that both the Federal Chancellor and I have asked the President of the Court of Auditors not only orally, but also in writing, to carry out an examination of the projects and the group of "Euroteams" in order to ensure that there is absolute clarity that it has been done correctly, properly and according to best knowledge and conscience. On question 6: This not unusual way was chosen as the extent of the use of the hotline was not foreseeable in advance. In the initial phase, an internal call center was established by the client himself. However, a precautionary transfer of this part of the contract to an invitation to tender after ÖNORM 2050 was pre-empted in the contract and therefore not exonerated by the federal government. Questions 7 and 8: As has already been said, a social connection between TBK and "Euroteam" was unknown to the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs at the time of the call for proposals. On the question 9: As part of the Agreement on the apprenticeship offensive II, which was drawn up jointly with the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is explicitly stated that the continuation of the hotline must be carried out in agreement with the contracting entities on the basis of the 1997 call for tenders. A further call would not have been useful, since other bidders would at least have appointed an enrollment for the call centre staff. Consequently, there would have been no equal conditions of competition, and it would have resulted in additional expenses of the client. In addition, TBK fulfilled the first order for the satisfaction of the client, and by the method chosen, continuity and reliability of our assessment were ensured. The continuation by the company TBK was at least also carried out in coordination with my department. Questions 13 and 14: Between the labour market service, which was commissioned by the end of 1996 to carry out further projects under the Employment and Adjustment Community Initiatives and was thus also responsible for PROFESSIONET, and the projector had differences of opinion regarding the recognizable cost positions and their breakdown in the course of the project settlement. In the billing, the promoter can only claim the costs agreed and proven in the contract, i.e., Ms./Man-Months as salary costs, including additional costs for proven project-related employment times for the project, proven, material cost allocated to the project, comprehensible joint cost surcharges for office rents, energy costs and others. There was – and that is why I have listed this for example now – and I therefore do not make any calculation for hourly rates throughout the project, and I would ask that this argument, which has been set out in detail in the Subcommittee, be properly accepted as material and content. It has also been referred to paid hourly rates in today's debate, which does not correspond to the facts. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: May we learn how it was settled?]] Any reference to hourly figures and consultation hours in the project report has nothing to do with financial compensation, highly appreciated ladies and gentlemen, but only with statistical data and indicators, as the European Commission wishes to see better comparability with other countries and other projects. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What are the statistics based on?]] In this respect, there is an explicit request from the European Commission. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Mrs. Federal Minister! What is the reference size of these statistics?]] "Euroteam" has put forward a billing proposal, ladies and gentlemen, and in its control there have been disagreements in the matter and in the common cost allocations – and I emphasize that as is always the case with other contractors and clients – in individual positions and wishes for information. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What is the statistical size: persons, hours, days, weeks?]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The subcommittee discussed this question for hours. I would like to be able to refer to the open questions in the short time available to me. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Maybe you can find out about the plenary! We would like to know this too! Maybe the media representatives too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In June, a basic agreement on the allocation key was reached on common costs. The joint settlement is expected to take place in August. The PROFESSIONET project was also controlled in November and December 1998 by the internal revision of the Social Ministry as part of the routine review of the Community initiative "EMPLOYMENT" in accordance with Structural Funds provisions. I should also like to say that not only the Austrian Court of Auditors, but also the European Court of Auditors, have the projects taken into account as absolutely proper and all the projects of my department have been approved as absolutely correct. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this also confirms that routine checks carried out within my ESF department are very likely to indicate problem areas and therefore ensure an absolutely correct settlement. In particular, the internal revision proposes that all parallel projects and the institution as a whole be checked in the final settlement of the project, in order to plausify the common cost encryption and make a clear cost allocation. There is also a common view with the AMS. Question 15: The calculation of the PROFESSIONET project shall be carried out in accordance with the approved cost allocation by means of evidence of the actual personnel and material costs incurred; I have already referred to the previous statements. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is a swamp! Incredible!]] Since the implementation of the project concept is part of the funding contract, the content of the implementation will also be reviewed on the basis of the interim and final results to be submitted. As the projects of the Community initiatives are carried out throughout Europe, comparable statistical data are collected in all projects, particularly for socio-scientific and analytical purposes. The European Commission provides, among other things, comparable data on average costs. These data – I mention it again – are exclusively for statistical collection and are not the basis for the billing of projects. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What is the basis of these statistics?]] "To this end, all the projects included the following statistical indicators: The number of participants in the PROFESSIONET project is 120 – perhaps satisfied You have this answer – that of the hours per participant and participant in PROFESSIONET 50, so there are a total of 6000 performance hours for PROFESSIONET. Since PROFESSIONET is a development project, ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, very many hours for actual development work, the creation of reports, the current evaluation of projects and others which cannot be directly related to cooperation with entrepreneurs. I would also like to refer to the question raised by you concerning the SPÖ Vienna. The SPÖ Wien was not consulted in apprentices' questions, but instead agreed to participate in the development work of the project free of charge. There, needs analyses have been prepared and individual and group discussions have been conducted on training content. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: If the SPÖ works free of charge, why are there bills?]] In addition, opportunities for the admission of apprentices were also discussed with all the companies and organisations interested in this project. The immediate advisory and development work was 13 hours, including preparation and follow-up 30 hours. For this purpose, reasonable hours for project development – not for SPÖ! – awarded the project evaluation and other overhead costs of 215 hours.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11026	Mrs Bundesminister, please ask for the final sentence. I've now approved a breach, but...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11041	I am already at the end of the sentence. There is no flow of money between participating entrepreneurs and project promoters or project contractors. The benefit was therefore in the project and not in the business community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11071	The next speaker is Mr Brix. He asked to stop 8 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11093	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Unfortunately, Van der Bellen, whom I very much appreciate, is no longer present. [[Call to the liberals: neither does the Federal Chancellor!]] Professor Van der Bellen! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: He turned away with greys!]] In the next few weeks and months, the "Euroteam" you are dealing with is the subject of tests by an ordinary court, and you will see what is true of all these accusations. However, this issue of "Euroteam" cannot be used to adapt the successful apprenticeship and youth policy of the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Social Affairs, to the Austrian Federal Government, because the apprenticeship policy of our Federal Chancellor is a very successful one! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: This is a move of problems!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the European youth unemployment, it is seen how important it was that the Federal Chancellor launched this apprenticeship offensive. There were over 3,000 more job seekers in 1996 than open apprenticeships. Only when the Federal Government – the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Social Affairs – launched an apprenticeship offensive in 1997 did this negative trend cease, has succeeded in achieving a turning point in the apprenticeship market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But what turn!]] What turn? I can tell you that because between 1996 and 1998, ladies and gentlemen, the total number of apprentices rose from 120 000 to 125 000. That alone is positive, because 5,000 young people had more teaching places! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another number: The number of teachers rose from 37 000 to 39 000. The number of teaching establishments increased from 39 700 to 41 400. These are positive figures, but they have not been discussed in the last few days at all. This is a success story that we write for our youth, and the youth will also go with us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of the forthcoming elections in the absence of other issues, the positive achievements in Austria must be simply mediocre. Therefore, we are not talking about the need to do everything we can to ensure that the apprentices have a job again, we are not talking about the need, together with the economy, to make greater efforts to increase the number of teachers, we are not talking about creating more and new jobs. And we don't take the international comparison figures either. Ladies and gentlemen! The international comparisons already make Austria look very good, because according to the EU's calculation method, Austria has 6.6 percent youth unemployment, an average value of 19.6 percent in the European Union! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's not why it's happening now!]] It was necessary to start such an offensive, and that new methods were also used, is obvious, because the old have simply stopped pulling. And since you are so particularly concerned about the topic of Euroteam today: Why, then, did no one of my previous speakers – but perhaps this is still from one person or another – say that the AMS has actually begun to control? The AMS has already shown where mistakes have been made, and one must also say, in order to give the truth the honor, that those projects which have not yet been completed to satisfaction have not yet been paid; the money has been retained so far. [[Abg. Oillinger: There are no projects that have been completed for satisfaction at all!]] Mr Oellinger, I have not heard a word from you about the AMS being controlled and about those projects which have not yet been completed, the money has also been held back. [[Abg. Oellinger: I said that! You need to be careful!]] Ladies and gentlemen! And if this is already criticized, I would ask at least for so much fairness and propriety that we also take note of what the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Social Affairs have set as a scale. You said: There are criticisms, so we ask the Court of Auditors to review this matter. Let us look at the Court of Auditors, let us see what comes out of facts. [[Abg. Gaugg: The chancellor is already in retirement until they are finished!]] Mr Gaugg, you know that they are much faster than the charges against Rosenstingl, for example. It probably takes a long time to finish. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Tell me what I mentioned earlier: Not only will the Court of Auditors carry out an audit, but an ordinary court will also present us with a report and point out any relevant criminal offences. I repeat, in my opinion, it is really about adapting the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government because there was a proper, successful apprenticeship offensive launched – to support the young people. [[Call to the liberals: Do you still trust to say that?]] I trust to say that because there are more and more apprentices and also new teaching places for them! And I'll tell you, too. It is particularly important to us Social Democrats that there is as little youth unemployment as possible in Austria. It is important to us Social Democrats that there is enough teaching for young people. It is important to us social democrats that we work together with the economy in the same way that we create new teaching professions. And I ask the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to complete these new teaching professions quickly from this place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In memory of my youth, let me say something: I was already one of those who were annoyed at the fact that the apprentices had workers and employees. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is another construction site!]] It is therefore important that we also implement the "Action Fairness" among apprentices in order to make the worker equal to the employee so that there are no differences between them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] As a politician, colleague Schöggl, you would have enough to help the apprentices instead of giving political speeches so that you might get more by a few percentage points. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] For us youth employment is important! We don't want youth unemployment, but we want more apprentices. That is why we are more than satisfied with the apprentice policy of the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Federal Government as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:22]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11294	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that Mr Dr Kier, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of an investigative committee to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Government and the alleged unlawful influence of political agents in connection with investigations on the Kurdish murders in July 1989. No debate was requested. The vote will be taken in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11327	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The best evidence of the bad conscience of German Chancellor Klima sits on the government bank in the form of Mr Wittmann State Secretary. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and to representatives of the liberals.]] He apparently came to the child like the virgin, and I must add that we only did not give our consent to the request of the liberals from the coalition. [[Lively cheerfulness, congratulations and intercessions with the liberals.]] There is a Committee report on the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, and there are many inconsistencies, interdependencies and associations. Many questions have already been dealt with in the Subcommittee. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] And the SPÖ also had to admit that there is clearly a misbehaviour in the labour market. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Concrete: The Committee notes that there have been shortcomings in the award of orders to "Euroteam" and that there is a close proximity of "Euroteam" to socialist party secretaries and therefore an unacceptable start-up advantage. [[Abg. Scheibner: You seem to have already started the election campaign in Burgenland!]] The Committee's report also notes that there has been an inconsistency of multiple functions that there has been a sluggish and careless handling of important officials with the right of association that a very complicated company union has been established here. [[Abg. Gaugg: What are you talking about? You can't say anything anyway!]] Mr Oellinger has already shown this, I can show it in colour. [[The speaker put a poster glued to a box on the speaker's desk in such a way that it can be clearly seen from the seats of the Members.]] But before I get to this...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11426	I call Mr Steindl. - Please, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11441	Before I speak on this company union, I would like to say something about the formal procedure of the Subcommittee. In the truest sense of the word, we have been cast with information material – you can see that from the Members of Parliament, Luke, Head and Kiss. [[Members Kiss, Head and Dr. Lukesch have hits of file folders in their places.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: See how they hide behind the files!]] It was about 100 kilograms of information we got, and we had to deal with it first. I heard that there was even a printing company of my own. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] On the other hand, essential information, for example from the Ministry of Women, has not come at all or too late. "Euroteam": It all revolves around this SPÖ network, this red network "Euroteam". [[Abg. Gaugg: With the help of the ÖVP! Shame!]] And if you look at this network, you realize that everything was controlled by two clubs or a club, namely Euroteam Vienna and Euroteam Burgenland. It always seems to be the same names on, everywhere, wherever one is shown, no matter what form of society. And the head was and is Mr. Lukas Sühlpahrer, Mr. Co. Gaugg, who was named by Dr. Buchinger in the Subcommittee as the intruder and impersonator of these projects. [[Abg. Gaugg: I'm just saying fisherman! It's all business!]] In view of the functions of Mr. Chair-Parbar – former Federal Chairman of the "Action Critical Students", i.e. a SPÖ school organisation – it is recognized that he is not so far away from the SPÖ at all. He had the most different functions and still has them: Chairman of the Board of Management in the "Euroteam Vienna", Chairman of the Board of Directors in the "Euroteam Burgenland" – nobody knows what this association actually did –, Executive Board at "Euroteam Beteiligungsverwaltungs-AG", Managing Director in various sub-contracts, Supervisory Board at "bfi Wien-Euroteam", and finally large apprentices officer of the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Gaugg: fried 3.8 million!]] Let us look at the other persons acting: There is a Franz Bernthaler, also represented in various groups, a Jan Klima, son of the Federal Chancellor, accountant, without knowing that he was at "Euroteam Vienna" or "Euroteam Burgenland". His reply reads: Mr. Jan Klima has no function, but has been misguided as an accountant. How can one do this: start an association and mistakenly lead someone as an accountant? This is very interesting: "Euroteam" has collected more than 47 million schilling within five years, and there was no auditing? – That’s very strange! Or had...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11532	Deputies, one second. . I must ask a Member of Parliament not to practice mobile phone use for minutes in the Chamber! Please continue, Mr Steindl.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11550	Or did Mr. Jan Klima have a different function, namely the function of a door opener? – That’s the question that’s going to concern us for a long time not only in this house, but also elsewhere. There is a clear failure of the association police, and there is also a demand from the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It is not about intensifying the conduct of the many non-profit associations, as he wanted, but rather to comply with the laws currently in force. Let's continue in the list: Gerald Gerstbauer, Secretary of State for Minister for Hostasch, on the one hand co-contractor, coordinator, on the other side co-contractor. - And that's right! This can also be proved in time. According to his own information, he was responsible for the following activities: for discussions, for the development of content concepts and – control! It's just, you know, Who did he control? Even with Euroteam? That is a question that is extremely interesting. Or a Mr. David Mock. We know: As a press worker in the Federal Chancellery, you have to be very flexible. He might be. But when all this became known in the press, Mr. David Mock immediately laid down all the functions – he was so flexible! –, he has just given up all his functions and left the club. Question: Why? Why? What's behind that? Why is it fast? - All of this is in need of information. Some questions have been left open in view of the "Euroteam" branch: Where did the money come from for the non-profit associations? [[Abg. Gaugg: Ask your coalition partner! Ask the bowl and the climate!]] How has the own resources been allocated to EU projects? – These questions have not been answered. Or: How has the necessary capital or capital of the individual companies been raised? There is still no profit and loss account. [[Abg. Fischl: Was the Staribacher the consultant?]] Although we have got some balance sheets, nothing can be seen from them at all. We didn't get a profit and loss account from which maybe money flows could be determined. All these are shortcomings that must be shown. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is more than just a subcommittee report: It's a bit broken up – a melange of friendly economy, slutting and planlessness. Apparently this has been in the SPÖ tradition and is now being continued. [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, according to an APA broadcast of 9 August, is an outrageous one. July means: If there are still open questions about this company braid, about project promotions, over a few hundred thousand schillings – a few hundred thousand schillings are nothing at all! Then we'll take care of it. – Is this an opinion of responsibility? [[Abg. Gaugg: You have a beautiful coalition partner! And then you will adopt the report together with him!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Shame for it!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You behave like cuddly animals!]] Mr Gaugg! We have raised many questions in the subcommittee. They are in this joint report. We can, however, be anxious to see what ambiguities are still being opened up in the course of investigations by other bodies – prosecutors, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11703	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11725	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima, since the young people are supposed to be at your heart, where are you? Where, Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, are you today, while this discussion is being held? I say one thing: Mr. Federal Chancellor's Climate! You're cowardly! You're cowardly, and with your cowardice you'll become a fellow culprit in the matter of "Euroteam"! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Petrovic.]] You can't always emphasize in the public that you would quickly reveal shortcomings, and if he, the Federal Chancellor, knew – give a little rest and listen! – that his son is in the Euroteam, the "Euroteam" would not have been commissioned. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Now I'm wondering, If Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima does not even know that his son, the studiosus, is involved in this "Euroteam" conglomerate, does he even know what the apprentices' needs are in Austria? - He has no idea! That's reality. I don't know! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They always pretend to have re-started the world in Rust and as if apprentice unemployment had collapsed overnight. But already for 1992 statistics show that more apprentices have pushed on the labour market. The Wifo has predicted this to you years before. In reality, the so-called apprenticeship offensive is a planned artistic industry, and it is about millions of amounts. But you don't care. You don't care! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: And what have you achieved in this matter?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] A word to the ÖVP and to a certain Steindl or as it is called: For 12 years, this ÖVP has been offering a sad spectacle. You criticize outside, but here in the National Council you agree everywhere. They are the ones who fall by lying down, constantly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: You have not even read the report!]] Who still believes that you are really interested? Then, first of all, you would have voted in favour of the Federal Chancellor's appearance, and secondly, you should have agreed to our minority report and not jointly with the SPÖ. I'll tell you: The prize for this was Mr. Fischler and 34 diplomats. This is your form of politics! I hope that you will receive a corresponding bill. [[Puppet rupture and condolences with the liberals.]] You, gentlemen and ladies of the ÖVP, are fellow perpetrators. You know that a certain Mr. Stuhlpärer, the central figure of this conglomerate, has spent 349 hours in a law firm to advise for an apprenticeship and also appropriate motivation. 349 hours – these are words and writing two and a half working months! I believe that this has been made quite consciously. It is a suspicion that Mr. Stuhlpfarrer has obtained legal advice there for his company conglomerates. This could be in line with the effort. These two lawyers then appear as supervisory councils or chairmans in one of the companies of Mr. Stühlpfärer. And the Chancellor doesn't know anything about it. He doesn't know anything. The Secretary of State has today read what the Federal Chancellor probably wrote to him. He doesn't know anything. I'm really wondering if I'm protecting not knowing from punishment. She, the Federal Minister of Hostasch, is also characterized by the failure to answer unsolicited questions. That's it! They don't go to "Euroteam" with a word. [[Abg. Koppler: That's not true!]] They strip that on the edge and say: This comparative study of over 200 new teaching professions in the EU and Austria would be a master achievement. It cost 430 000 S and ultimately consisted in copying official documents of the European Community. If you call it performance, I know what performance means for you! On the issue of abuse: Above all, it is embarrassing that the pleasure of the Lord's chair-pear is unbroken. During the meetings of the Subcommittee, he was there for a day. When we wanted to hear him again, it was said that the good man was in Chicago. Four weeks! He'll be in Chicago for four weeks. And today he's suddenly back in the journalist's log. Why were you not in the Subcommittee when we needed you for a few questions? Too cowardly, too? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Did you quit your studies? Or: You have not answered yet, Mr President-in-Office, what you have done in Palermo. Did you meet with the Camorra? What were you for in Palermo? Excuse me – you have fried tax money in millions. Then you will have a speech and an answer, with your Chancellor, you as an apprentice representative of the Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is always claimed to be a broad line: We create apprenticeship jobs, cost it what it wants! This must not lead to the fact that under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor climate, everything is permitted, up to processes that raise the suspicion of fraud. That can't be in the interest of the SPÖ either! They are always so proud to do something for the youth. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, that was right! But then do it with your money and not with tax money! "Kinderfreunde", the municipality of Vienna, the SPÖ Vienna were consulted to the extent of hundreds of hours. Hundreds of hours was the SPÖ Vienna... [[Abg. Koppler: What are you doing with your Pseudogewerkschaft? - Nothing!]] What is it? Yeah, but I didn't fried any public money! Koppler! There is an essential difference between your policies and our policies: Your ÖGB collects taxpayers in millions. That's the first one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And now listen! There is a project with the number – listen! – 37106. [[Other calls of the Abg. Copper]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11894	One second, it'll be quiet right away. - So, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11928	Carrier: ibis GmbH WestAustria, Project name: Jump. Total funding: 5.4 million schilling. The creation of jobs is at the heart of this project. A total of three have been created in foreign farms. [[Abg. Fischl: Can I request support?]] With 5.4 million schilling three jobs! Really a "grandius" performance! What is also noteworthy: 566 000 S travel costs, for a single project, for the employment of three employees. [[Abg. May. Trattner: They were never reachable telephonically, so you have to stop!]] A project running for 22 months has rental and operating costs of 553 000 S, telephone costs of 135 000 S and costs of equipment and rent of 391,000 S. That's your form of employment and money. [[Abg. Edler: What's the Haider doing?]] You do not employ young people, but you employ your artists. And for this you will spend tax money – with the help of your government partner ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only tell you: As in Carinthia, this form of politics will end in the League!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12012	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12042	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The thing is really bad, unpleasant. At the beginning of my remarks on this unpleasant matter, I would like to make a political statement: It is indeed a serious political error of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic that he did not come personally to answer this urgent question today, because there are some questions in the room that have ultimately required the authentic, highly personal response by him. I do not want to narrow the value of Mr State Secretary in his mandatory reply, but it is simply not possible for him to answer certain subjective questions of knowledge, which can only be answered in person. Everything else is just listening. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Therefore, it may: They do not wonder if this non-appearance of the Federal Chancellor opens up the possibility, even to force things to be put into space, which he cannot personally authentically disprove. Since the Federal Chancellor is a human being of adequate intelligence, he knows that too. If he buys to abandon being able to respond personally, then – let me say that – one has to draw conclusions from it, so sorry I do. [[Abg. Fischl: He has a motive, the man!]] Both conclusions that can be drawn from them are unpleasant: Either he has not recognized the problem – that would not be good for a German chancellor, because that would be a serious lack of qualification – or he does not trust himself in this house. But since we heard that the ÖVP remained loyal to coalition, he should not have been afraid: He wouldn't have been thrown into this house. But he might have barked. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] In my opinion, he has blamed himself by the fact that he has not appeared. I think we have made a real effort in the Committee to ask a lot of questions. Many have remained unanswered, some have only appeared after the people had already left. When we made proposals to recharge the information, we failed, unfortunately, by the majority who are loyal to the coalition. That is why Mr. Pearce – he is sitting in the gallery – is once a day and has answered everything after strength, but once new questions have been raised, he was once in America, another time – at the same time that we arrived at 6. He gave a press conference on July the last meeting of the Committee. The majority of the government has not invited him again. In this light, I also think that the EIA should be more modest in assessing its participation in the Committee's report. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] After all, if she had a real interest in it... [[Abg. May. Steindl: The request for the loading of Mr. Chair-Pearce was withdrawn!]] Mr Steindl, I can understand that, in the formulation of a committee report, you have to ensure that you come to a common text capable of majority voting. But I cannot understand the interest you have had in preventing the re-charge of information in the confidential committee, only because – a coalition loyalty likely – your coalition partner felt that this was not necessary. [[Abg. Silhavy: The application has been withdrawn!]] They're all thinking mistakes. If you want to hear someone again, that does not mean that you want to do something to him, but that you want to ask questions. I have always tried throughout the Committee meetings to ask questions and draw the conclusions to a conclusion. We are now now in a position to see that the Federal Chancellor has not come again today and therefore cannot answer really important questions personally. I think it's bad. The Liberal Group will also express its opinion publicly where it is asked to do so. A political assessment is all this: He didn't come, he was too sorry, or he was too cowardly. I think that is important in this regard. Not that the Secretary of State is underestimated by me – he answered the questions as well as he could, based on the house – but it was also about questions relating to the cabinet of Mr Bundeskanzler, in connection with the staffs on Löwelstraße. This could have answered climate in person if it had wanted it. He didn't want to, because he didn't come. I think this is very, very important. On the things themselves, which are the subject of the debate here under the title "Euroteam". I can only say that the blue-eyeness in reply, including from the government bank, is already amazing. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, we know that certain hours in such projects are not necessarily real hours. However, they must be plausible when it comes to the dimension of processes. But it is completely implausible that in a calculation of the advice of lawyers 340 and more hours are assigned. It was quite right what Mr Van der Bellen said about this case: A lawyer who would provide advice for 340 hours has a lost profit in millions because he cannot work at this time. It is therefore implausible, except that I do not know whether the know-how transfer of the "Euroteam" to a lawyer would be such a significant gain for the lawyer. I'm not quite sure of that. Certain experts have these people, but they are narrow sectors. In commercial law, they do not know how we could see in committee. Their company books are not really all right, in which the old companies still seem to be a partner, although new ones have already been established. I have had to carry out longer research in the company's book and then also provided the Committee with the company's book extracts so that these many beautiful, wonderful desks could be made possible. However, they are all in a certain degree of uncertainty because they do not know exactly who the real owners are. On the back platform there is an association, an association with less than ten members, and this is the main shareholder of the entire construction, which manages at least seven-digit parent capitals, for example, together with the bfi in a high-school enterprise – parent capital: 6 million schilling – involved. "Euroteam" has brought in this venture – nebbich – anyway only 1.3 million schilling – to 2.5 million! And so on and so on. And even more important to me is – I would like to say this from this pult once again; it is also in the different opinion, but I think it is important –: The head of the association of this non-profit association – who did not make any profits, as we heard, because he was non-profit – was able to raise capital from the funds of the association for a number of companies. I wonder, How does this make a non-profit association, therefore, not to make any profits at all, and certainly not to make one? For this is in the essence of the association that he does not do so. It's hard enough to make profits in working life, for a non-profit association it's even more difficult – I'm sure you'll like to believe it! But this one was able to do that. Then, at the last meeting of the Subcommittee, in which we have already talked about the reports – the coalition loyal parties already had a draft, we have murmured them, and this has led to divergent opinions or minority reports and so on – a paper on the organisation's budget design. It seems that for the year 1997, extraordinary revenue from members in the order of 1,350 000 S was planned! – The statement on the budget stated that it was assumed that for the total amount of 900 000 S members will be won, the subscription fees amounting to 30 000 S will be paid. Thus, it was expected that at least 30 or 30 000 S enrollment fees would be charged – easily calculated in mind – with membership contributions from current monthly contributions of an average of 3 000 S, in the average stay of five months, which brings another 450 000 S! In total, this makes 1 350 000 S! This sum should be achieved through extraordinary income from members of the association. I know many non-profit associations, but few have 30 members who voluntarily pay 30 000 s of contributions to join them, and who are still paying 3,000 s per month. That is why we wanted to know: Are these members of the association possibly the business partners of the "Euroteam" group who pay high membership contributions to the association in the form of "Kick Back Payments", rather than discounting the non-profit projects of the Union, the AMS, the Social Ministry and the BKA? If I am able to demand less than I can, I cannot calculate the gross amount in a non-profit-making project, but I have to reduce the price. You can't say: I'll charge you 100, for that your club gets from me 30. – We would have liked to clarify this, but we were not allowed to do so. Therefore, I also recommend from this pult: The prosecutor's office should immediately obtain these documents – they are now available for free – and examine the evidence of the entire group of companies. Then we will know if what we all fear is true. Some claim that it is! In contrast to some others, I do not tend to prejudice. Maybe it's a bit old-fashioned, but I'm for the presumption of innocence and I'm always going to work for it. We must fear, however, that this in-depth examination will promote what we all feel: that it is a swamp of friendships and a lack of sight, which leads to incompatibilities. I would also have liked to hear the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany personally. I would have liked to hear him distance himself from it, not distanced by spatial distance, but by saying what he thinks of it, that hopefully nothing. We will not know because he refuses this house's position. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12122	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Same time of speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12143	Mr President. Mrs Sozialminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In a press release today, ÖVP-Klubobmann Khol is quoted with the words: Through his representation by Wittmann, climate shows "that he has a bad conscience", but – Khol says – "I can and does not want to violate the coalition agreement."– Triumphant fidelity three days before the end of the legislative period! [[Abg. Koppler: This is a Christian!]] Christian! There are laughs at the SPÖ, which is also to laugh, for this is the trusty conjure: We'll do it in the next period, too. We both have so much in the drawers above each other that we cannot be different. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] And maybe these folders, which are in the ranks of the ÖVP, are already a clue, a hint with the fence stake: If you do anything, we'll come too. It shows a moral picture of this republic, and it is very clear that the Balkans are not geographically located in remote countries. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Brix.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the back of the ÖVP there are interesting words, I have heard in the area of Mr Lucisch that, as Member Van der Bellen spoke of the "40 million thing" of the "Euroteam" was spoken of by the Abzockers. Apparently this is a coalition of the excavators, and there are on both sides. She's very sad, this coalition of the excavators! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] We could even hear this here, it was very clear to hear – and it lives wonderfully unfavorably on regiment expenses –: When we spoke about a "evil thing", namely the sale of storm rifles, Klubobmann Khol made several very clear transfers to the SPÖ: [[towards ÖVP]] If you criticize there, you'll get an Omofuma Committee! – So such deals in terms of control, we already know these bazaar control methods, and that continues seamlessly today. We're used to it. You, Mrs Federal Minister, say that the billing of hours is related to EU requirements. But we still don't really know what that was, these strange consulting services, these 349 hours! It wasn't hours of people. It's a statistical size, it's said. Mrs. Federal Minister! Would you perhaps have the kindness to tell us what the basis of these statistics is? The body weight of the lawyer in pounds may be calculated? We might be able to move on with this. I think Mrs. Cresson did something threatening and maybe something unthinkable to her dentist. The SPÖ and the ÖVP have more "talk doctors", who can get out of the full and thus somehow pretend statistical sizes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: The dentists are innocent!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If you already say that this is strange statistical sizes, you don't know whether they're sausages or the lawyer's body weight or I don't know what, maybe the number of square meters of the office...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12217	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! Mrs. Dr. Gredler protests violently when you attack dentists.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12232	That's just Mrs. Cresson's. Here we've got other hits. But the statistical size to which this whole refers would be very interesting. Mrs. Federal Minister! Simple laws of arithmetic should lead to a bit of contemplation for those who pretend to be such statistical sizes. It is very difficult: If one wants it to look particularly inconspicuous, one prefers to take quite unrounded numbers. But if you take numbers like just 349 and you don't get a third prime figure from 25 bills, then you don't have to multiply at all. It is the essence of prime numbers that they do not result from other figures as a product. That's so stupid. So it's not the body weight of the lawyer either. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not mathematically true! By one they are divisible and by themselves too!]] By one they are divisible. Well then it must have been a very difficult lawyer or a very large office! Mrs. Federal Minister! You've made me very stupid with your statements. They said – and this has so far been presented differently – that the SPÖ Wien had not been advised at all, nor those 13 hours of which the SPÖ Vienna itself speaks. [[Abg. Nicer: She didn't say that!]] No, you told us today that the SPÖ Vienna has worked free of charge. [[Abg. Seidinger: That's a difference!]] Yeah, that's gonna be weird. The SPÖ Vienna goes into a project on a voluntary, altruistic basis for the young people in this country, but altruism stops with the Mr. Chair-Parseer, who goes on to calculate everything. [[Abg. Rider: Well, is that wrong?]] It is about free work. – Yes, how does it come to these hundreds of hours at once? Then this is a project to eliminate the EU in a little bit. That's what I'm saying: To servus! So, Mrs Gredler, it's the model – I'm sorry, and there's nothing to do with you personally – of Mrs. Cresson's dentist, just on Austrian coins, where free work on the various stages of finishing suddenly becomes due. I'd say in good German, that's a chuzpe, a huge one! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more thing, Mrs. Federal Minister: They're always talking, probably more elegantly, about the "Euroteam" group. Is that true, Mr Oellinger, that there is a real estate exploitation in this group that manages a 40-square-metre apartment? Do you know what suspicion is going on there? [[Abg. Koppler: Will we check!]] Ah, you'll check that out! That's what I did in your place. Mr Koppler, but I would rather look at a little before the contract was awarded in the future. [[Abg. Koppler: He's hiding behind immunity!]] To manage a 40-square meter apartment through a real estate exploitation GesmbH gives the impression of the tax-saving treatment of this apartment. "Group" is not the right word for that. I would have another word for it, but I cannot speak this word without putting the President in a regulatory position, so I do not do it, but I think it is also on your tongue. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Please, more openness down there!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They spoke § 80 para. 3 Law on the award of contracts. – Technical, artistic reasons for "Euroteam"? Where? How? What? Danger in delay? Risk in default may be in the party funds of the SPÖ or in some SPÖ people or in persons in the close relationship of the chancellor. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But now it's enough!]] Otherwise, there was no danger of delay, Mrs. Federal Minister, that was an illegal act of your place of business! Let's call it by name! Or, Mrs. Federal Minister – and this is going to be particularly exciting – your answer to Question 7, which concerns the joint establishment of a call centre of "Euroteam" and TBK. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Secretary of State said he knew nothing about this. Whether this also applies to the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, says the State Secretary, withdraws his knowledge – and therefore, I assume, also the knowledge of the Federal Chancellor. Very strange! And he has also said that the Minister for Social Affairs will say something about this. I've paid attention, but unfortunately nothing of you has heard about it. But now Mr. Pearce has told us via the media: No, he didn't know this company, and it was only later that it was founded. But he says something different to the media. It really gives the impression that the various branches of the excavators have been set up to lead these payments to the downfall of other pots. It would have been nice if you had told us a little more about the times when anyone knew something, if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic did not find it worth the effort to say anything about it. I do not know whether the gentlemen in his cabinet are so under-employed that they can still advise, audit and otherwise do something. I find that remarkable. I am waiting – and this is my final sentence – for what account Parliament will receive. For if so expensive people are present for so long, and this is 183 times – or perhaps the officials too – then we have a proper bill in the house, Mrs. Federal Minister. But we are already used to a lot in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12382	The next speaker is Mr Koppler.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12430	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr. Universitätsprofessor Lukesch came in, he adjusted Mr. Mayor, and then Mr. Steindl with his documents, I wondered what Mr Steindl was going to do with these folders now. After his speech, I know: He's hiding because he's ashamed of his speech. That's why you didn't mention the documents, Mr Steindl. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibbl: Such a fool!]] Mr Steindl! However, I would like to say one thing to you: The documents about Lassing are far more extensive. I just wanted to tell you that! [[Aha! - Call the liberals and the Greens.]] And if you follow a certain party observer here with a table on which "The Red Network" is on, I will not do that, but tell you something about the black network Qualifying Offensive Forest District – a demonstration project of the Secretary-General of the Günter Stummvoll Chamber of Commerce – Auxiliary Organization "Die Möwe" – Honorary Protection: [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Yes, exactly! Tell us a little something!]] Secretary General Rauch-Kallat – and so on and so on. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The subsidies went across the parties. So let's leave this, and let's stick to it! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP, the Free and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to this discussion, I'm clear – and that's sad: You are not concerned with the matter, it is about you to adapt a successful Federal Chancellor, but you will not succeed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It bothers you that the Social Democratic Chancellor before the 3. October in the popularity scale is at the front, above all the others. This is a thorn in your eye, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen believes that the Social Democrats should distance themselves from this causa: That would be wrong, Mr President. We Socialists are in this causa for a complete investigation, not for a removal. I just wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This issue will be discussed again today under item 19 of the agenda, it has already been said. And I would like to say to Mr Öllinger: ==References== Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. In connection with "Euroteam", ladies and gentlemen, half-truths and untruths are being spread, and the matter and the acting persons are criminally exposed to it, knowing that the Members – and they should know this too – are immune and cannot be interested. Mr Steindl spoke in a press release of connections with party secretariats, Mr Khol said that orders were awarded only to SP-near organizations, although he knew that this was not true. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: To the ÖVP too?]] And the liberals and the Greens are talking about fraud, infidelity, abuse. So: this causa is simply being criminalized! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: It's also criminal!]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I recognize – I have already said this – a complete Enlightenment in this causa "subventions in connection with the apprenticeship offensive". We are confessing this, I say it very clearly. But I am a little sad about this debate, and I hope my colleague, Mr Oellinger, will agree: [["Go on!"-Call at the ÖVP, the Free and the Greens]] The recent reports have put out of focus the valuable work of the AMS and made the excellent achievements – including international comparisons – unfair in the public. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: These were "Euroteam" and the SPÖ, not the AMS!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the German Federal Government's apprenticeship offensive 1997/98 and Bad Aussee's government programme are very positive. For this, the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister of Agriculture, Hostasch, are very much to be thanked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: The performance of the AMS deserves special recognition. For me, as a representative of the workforce, the AMS has a central role in employee policy. Let us confess to it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12563	Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12585	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So there comes a member of parliament Gaugg and yells into the hall, accuses everyone. I mean, he didn't read the report of the Freedom Party at all, because this report by the Liberal Party is not that bad at all. For example, it says exactly what Mr Brix said earlier that the AMS stopped and controlled the payment of funds. That is exactly what the report of the liberals says, just in a different way. Or it is stated in the FPÖ report that the suspicion of favouring certain institutions has led to the fact that even by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors has been entrusted with the examination of the conduct in respect of the promotion and contracts to "Euroteam", which is considered to be a political success. I only doubt whether it is the political success of the FPÖ. In my opinion, it has been the political success of all the representatives of the Committee and thanks to the commitment of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Court of Auditors has carried out this review. The report says something quite different than Mr Gaugg said here. [[Abg. May. Steindl: He didn't read it!]] I could agree with many points of this report because some things have been correctly and correctly shown. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is pouring dirt in here. [[Abg. Wabl: Go! Really?]] Yeah, she was talking about dirt. – Mrs Petrovic! Now I have to tell you something: They always go to the public and say: I declare at oaths. Please, what does that mean to explain to the public something about oaths? - Nothing! She always says: I heard! . I would like Members and Clubwoman to perhaps clean up their ears so that she understands everything that is spoken. In any case, Mr Lucisch has said something like that which she has put before us. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen from the Greens! We are not supposed to have gone away with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] She assumed that the ÖVP had gone off with it. Mr Van der Bellen, this is not worthy of your group, and I reject such statements. We won't let you offer that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Koppler! We are also not obliged to assume that the Member of Parliament has done projects in the forest district in a stupid manner. There is no suspicion that, in the forest district, Mr Deputies stupidly carried out projects in an incorrect manner. [[Abg. Edler: This is a Court of Auditors!]] – He said: We will deal with the projects of Dr. Stummvoll in the Waldviertel. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly, he's supposed to do that!]] – Let us not offer that, ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Koppler should consider it better before he speaks of nonsense, for it is now in the joint report: "The Committee notes that there have been some shortcomings, the causes of which are presented in the report and which are currently the subject of the Court of Auditors' review." Let us confess together to these shortcomings that have happened! Why do we have to "anagise" all the time? There have now been shortcomings. But I noticed something, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Koppler has hardly been involved in the Committee, in any case not as he has done here in the House on this matter. I would like to make it clear that things are finally put into the right lot: Inadequacies have happened, ladies and gentlemen, and before that we cannot close our eyes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] It's just about the orders! Today, we are dealing with the orders awarded by the Federal Chancellor's Office to a team, to a company in a very close relationship with the Euroteam association, and we doubt that these orders have brought something of 4.2 million schilling at all. I allow myself to question whether these orders, which the Federal Chancellery has awarded, have really brought the success that is always claimed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply a fact that a David Mock public worker of Mag. Klima is, at the same time, a member of the association and is still a member of the association of Lukas Sitzpfärer. That's a fact. It is also a fact that Thomas Drozda was at least a member of the association of Lukas Sühlpahrer, even though he should not be anymore, and in the cabinet climate is a speaker for social things, ladies and gentlemen! These are facts, and you can't pass these facts. You should just say: Yeah, well, here's something we have to do. . I am very glad that this mandate has been given to the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the orders on this 4.2 million schilling, which were awarded here, the Federal Chancellor has deliberately set himself in the sun – in the summer of 1997; that has been quoted. It is simply not all right to try to break free from the entire labour market policy that the AMS does, which the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs makes, by means of a hot line and by orders into the sun. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, he has set himself in the sun, ladies and gentlemen, that is clear – I am sorry to tell you. He placed himself in the sun, although he did little to contribute to the successes. The successes - I am right in this - have not reached the apprenticeship offensive of the Federal Chancellor's Office with the Ministry of Social Affairs and its apprentices offensives - and the AMS. The AMS is well-deserved to ensure that the situation is better for the job seekers mentioned above today. In June 1999, we had around 560 job seekers less than in June 1998, and I would like to conclude that by 21 percent less. This is a success of the Austrian economy, the businessman, that is a success of the AMS, and that is a success of those who pursue the right labour market policy. We should return to a labour market policy where we are trying to achieve the objectives of our laws and not pursue a labour market policy in which we only bathe in the sun and try to win votes. We cannot accept that in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12697	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek, with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12719	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Feurstein, if you have read the minority report of the liberals, you would have to insist that, in sum, it appears that the apprentices' offensive of the Federal Government under the direction of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has gone well The minority report also shows that the Committee could only fail to comply with the audit order due to the short period of time available to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I said that!]] [[Further calls.]] It wasn't possible to do this differently because we didn't have so much time at all. There can therefore be no reference to the fact that labour market matters could be subject to a genuinely comprehensive examination within the framework of the Federal Government's programme. This apprenticeship offensive was not a good star from the very beginning, because on the one hand the contract was awarded to a company to create a study – without a tender – and on the other hand this company, which received this contract without a tender, the company "Euroteam", a special close relationship with SPÖ, is of course also promised on the German Chancellor's climate. This kindred economy, this sluggishness and planlessness, with which the Federal Government now interprets the question of apprentices, must be questioned. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – The ÖVP is equally involved, otherwise it would have shown a little more otherwise it would have agreed to certain requests from us and allowed the setting up of an investigation committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of public funding millions going to SPÖ-near clubs, which are enriched by this apprenticeship problem and on the back of apprentices and young people. And this is certainly only the tip of an iceberg that needs to be examined. You have to look at the directors or managing directors of this "Euroteam": Mr. Stühlparrer and Mr. Bernthaler – their close relationship with SPÖ! Mr. Stichtpfarrer was formerly said to be head of the SPÖ-near "Action Critical Students", then he was a member of the Bureau of Socialist Youth and also staff of former EU Member Dr. Hawkiek. As auditor, a certain Mr. Eckhardt acted there – he works at the SPÖ Environment Bureau. A certain Mr. Drozda is on the Supervisory Board of the "Euroteam Beteiligungsverwaltungs-Aktiengesellschaft" and was Secretary of Mag. Climate. The subsidies were mainly granted to socialist organizations, such as the Austrian children's friends and the municipality of Vienna. To the extent of hundreds of hours, these institutions were advised without even one apprentice being hired – no, there was an apprentice who was already mentioned today, by a law firm, which is also very interesting, because these lawyers are also sitting on the Supervisory Board of "Euroteam". The "Austrian children's friends" have consumed 343 consulting hours – no apprentice has been hired! The municipality of Vienna has been advised 152 hours – no apprentice has been hired! The SPÖ Vienna had 243 hours – no apprentice employed! And the law firm mentioned earlier had 349 hours – she hired an apprentice. This study of the "Euroteam", which has prepared the manual for an apprenticeship, as was previously available in principle in each apprenticeship office of the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Workers, is of no concern at all, for it is questionable whether it has been clarified by copyright, whether it is at all possible to write down anything and then sell the other. The PROFESSIONET project, an operational training advice, has already been mentioned today. 50 hours per holding were planned, and 120 establishments in which this consultation should be carried out were planned. That would have been a total of 6,000 hours. Although 6 086 hours have been consumed, only 25 businesses have been advised and 10 projects have been created. 24 apprentices were recruited overall – an expensive apprentice offensive, I must say. The study prepared in this project PROFESSIONET consisted of EU documents with 5 cover sheets. The whole thing was about 900 A4 pages of copies, so it's an expensive thing. And this, Mrs. Federal Minister, has subsidized you with 3.7 million schillings. If one sees the extent of this "Euroteam" scandal known so far, it becomes clear why the SPÖ has so vehemently opposed the establishment of an investigation committee, but also the EIA, which, while fully attacking but in principle, does not agree with an investigation committee. We have already asked for this in committee. We also wanted to present information to people, namely Mr Bundeskanzler Klima and Mr President of the Court of Auditors Fierce. That was also rejected. It may be in the interest of the ruling, but certainly not in the interest of the people, the taxpayer, to simply blur this scandal around this "Euroteam" and to get under the carpet before the elections. This scandal has now become even richer around a facet. Not only did one SPÖ guest appear in the Federal Chancellor's closest dunst circle in this tax money redistribution organization, but it also turned out that according to the "Kronen Zeitung" police-known beater Dr. C. also worked prominently in the "Euroteam" in the management team. This too is still in need of information.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12791	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12813	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on this issue is interesting, but in reality it has come to an end since Mr Steindl's speech. All that's still being spoken here is just a storm in the water glass. [[Abg. ==References====External links== May. Barmüller.]] - Yes, I know. No, Emmerich, I therefore remain here at the speaker's desk, because I also want to tell you how much kindness your group is talking about. In view of Mr Koppler's speech, I do so now, after I have said something that Mrs Gredler has told me. Mrs Gredler said she would have liked to say to her professional group that the report on "Euroteam" has never mentioned dentists. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Thank you!]] However, Mr Steindl, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Koppler, I should also like to draw your attention to this, to the point of speaking here, and to say that he has behaved in the committee in such a way out of loyalty and would not agree to the criticism of the opposition here in plenary, with beautiful words, describes something which could not be more cruel. It is precisely with this, for example, Mr Steindl, that your group is preventing effective control on this issue. You say, though, that we know exactly what is behind this matter, namely the company braid – and you create a taferl, show it all up and present it very credible and very comprehensible, even after the speech that Mr Kier has given, which is actually a problem – but you also say: We will not reveal this out of coalition loyalty, but we will cover it. - That's what you're doing. You're talking to cover the word here! Then, Mr Koppler, a red red man who has been in the wool, who has of course always been only for the workers, comes to this speaker's desk and says in the direction of Mr Steindl: The files about Lassing are thicker, but let's leave that. – Ten miners were thrown into Lassing, ten families without fathers! I remember Mr Nürnberger, when I informed him that there is a report from the trade union on maladministration at the work in Lassing, saying that there is no report, that he knows nothing about it – that is what he said in a direct broadcast on television! A day later, because I told him that this was going to happen, he already kept him in the cameras of the "ZiB 1" and showed the people what was really there. You, Mr Koppler, are making yourself today – now that rocks are falling in Tyrol, a country geologist has no longer been left in the endangered area, the mountain authority is still not reformed – and say to Mr Steindl: Let's not talk about it. – Although ten workers have died, you as a red official in this country say, we are no longer talking about it because you have, in fact, already divided the whole country, Mr Koppler. [[Abg. Koppler: About the files!]] And it's a shame – it's a shame! – as you are waving your gold watch at the wrist and actually telling people – your own dialing clientele! –: [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Parent]] Sly it! Just make it easy for you, tell them. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But go!]] That is exactly what it is, Mr Parnigoni. It is Mr Koppler, who says, unblemished in the direction of ÖVP: Let's not talk about it, the files about Lassing are much thicker. I can recall exactly when, in this House, Mr Koppler, it was not least Mr Farnleitner, who said: We are now making a big report; at European level, everything will be shown and a Commission will be set up. . We are still waiting for this report today, Mr Koppler. It also does not help to sit casually in the bank rows, smile down charmingly and say: Well, what are we gonna do? That is how it is in this country. They are preventing control in this country! That is why you are preventing control in this country, because you both, both political groups, are already so thick in there. That 'Euroteam' is not the only example, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you today. In advance, another criterion: The opposition groups have been promised that the establishment of investigation committees will be a minority right. To this day, this promise has not been fulfilled. It has therefore not been settled because the majority in this House do not wish to allow control to take place. It must be realized to those people who listen that in this country any control of you will be prevented from doing what you are doing here, operetta democracy – pure operetta democracy! - that control does not take place in the Court of Auditors Committee. I have the reports in this regard, because I have been sitting in the Court of Auditors for nine years and I know what every department has to say about unfinished suggestions, but I simply don't know what to do. That's not why it's done because one's sitting there and the other's sitting there. And Mr Koppler said: Steindl, think of the Lassing ACTs, they're much thicker! You keep your mouth shut over the "Euroteam", we leave you alone with Farnleitner, because he's not coming in the next legislative period anyway. [[Abg. Koppler: You are not real!]] Now I'm going to tell you something, Mr. Deputies. [[Abg. Koppler: You are not real!]] . I am very honest, Mr Koppler, because the reservations I make to you are justified, and everyone knows that! [[Abg. Koppler: You know exactly what I meant!]] But I have to say that when you drop down here. It only happens in elections, Mr Koppler, just a little bit from what you're doing in the back. Just a little bit of that! Now I am bringing you an example from the Vienna councillor, one, the honourable Member... No, I don't want to capriculate it on the Liberal Forum. But why not? . It was the Liberals, Mr Alkier, who raised this issue and also researched it. This is about the press release service. The press release service, of course dominated by Mr Häupl and his red friends in Vienna, has set up a small office in the surrounding Eastern states in every capital. There, funding flows at a height of three-digit million. If, as a member of the opposition, as Mr Alkier has done in Vienna, you ask questions and ask: Please, what do they really do, what do they really do?, then they will answer: Data protection, unfortunately, we cannot say anything about it. Then you drove the ORF to these offices, because the addresses were known. You knocked, there's someone opening the door that's in sleep and training. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For a moment, this is supposed to be some information office of the city of Vienna in Prague, Bratislava. Then he says he doesn't know anything about it. – This was filmed by ORF, but not sent. Do you know why it hasn't been sent? - Because you've intervened! That's the crux in this country. You have a monopoly in the domestic report refund – in the feature film field there is no longer this – there is a monopoly in the domestic report refund, and there are two fractions in this House that have split up this country. You, Mr Koppler, have today provided a fine example of what your own constituency client is worth when it comes to hiding something. It doesn't matter at all. The people in this country must realize this once. As long as they give you the voice, they will still be dealt with in the way you did here – and that is disgraceful!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12943	Mrs Reitsamer has now come to speak with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12964	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Youth Employment Initiative of the Federal Government was a great success – not least because it was reacting very quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Rejoice! 24! Hurra!]] But this can of course be very bad for the opposition. Let me take a look at the history. Did the Spring 1997 forecasts show that, in the fall of the same year, between 10,000 and 12,000 young people would be on the streets without a chance of training, you, Mrs Petrovic, are not in enough danger of acting? But what do we have to do with? – On the one hand, there was less and less willingness on the part of the economy to train apprentices, and, on the other hand, this naturally had demographic causes. In recent years, there have been about 4,000 school leavers more per year, the birth-like years that have pushed on the labour market. I can only say so much to you for the first time on -seven rounds of negotiations: With regard to labour market difficulties and proposals to meet them effectively, the economy wanted to buy out every single positive change. There has always been an attempt to gradually pass through and take back the battled achievements from the employee's representatives. We have permanently facilitated the training of apprentices. I can only mention a few points, the reduction or the withdrawal of the service provider's contribution to social security, further tax reform provisions when an apprentice is taken up and when apprenticeship training is completed. [[Call to the liberals:A sufficient one!]] And this second step is particularly important to me, ladies and gentlemen, because an apprentice is taking up funding, but then he is to get rid of it again, as it is often intended, and this must be countered! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can prove to you that this fear was not unfounded. I would just like to remind you of the commitment to support... – Wait, this is coming, Mr Colleague! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many apprentices has the "Euroteam" created so far?]] I don't have much time to talk. Wait a minute! The grant commitment for those young people who do not have a teaching centre in the autumn resulted in recruitment commitments being broken immediately after completion of school and in saying to the young people concerned: Come back in autumn. We need to see how you're being promoted. - You just need to look at the numbers: In December 1997 – December, I say! – it then effected that the difference in the apprenticeship offer and in demand could be reduced from 3 032 to 1 189. Sure! It is more necessary than the funding already mentioned, namely new teaching professions. In this respect, however, there was no fairness from our side. If a teaching profession has proved to be useful, then immediately action was taken. I can also recall the Youth Training Guarantee Act, courses and foundations for those who, despite all the other measures, still had no teaching place. Companies who have not been trained so far had to win as trainers through a wealth of accompanying measures, in particular advice. As Mr Steindl spoke here about planlessness and the free work of the "Vienna children's friends" and the Vienna SPÖ was addressed: It would have been unwise for the Greens and other parties to participate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] But just that, in fact, companies that have not trained so far now also train apprentices, was the task of the PROFESSIONET project, carried out by "Euroteam". 16 000 companies were contacted and subsequently created 2 400 apprenticeships. The fact that basic work is the main focus of research projects is also clear to all. Or have you ever heard of the fact that the status of a schoolbook or the time required for it being 1 : 1 being turned to the success of the teacher in the class? - I've never heard anything like that before. Furthermore, it should also be noted that orders to "Euroteam" represent 0.25% of the funds provided within two years of promoting and supporting new youth jobs, mostly in private enterprises. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Bad enough!]] It did not require the intervention of the opposition. The AMS had already shown shortcomings, required tests, the final settlement was reserved. I say the following to you: I have the feeling that since today we have six political groups. Mr. Feurstein, Mr. Steindl, congratulates Mr Steindl, but talks here with Engelssungen about the joint report, which shows precisely these shortcomings – but in material form. Mr Steindl throws a real smear over everything, over the entire apprenticeship initiative and takes note of it here. – Why didn't you drag into a folder over the "World Vision" affair? That is what I ask you, Mr Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out that both the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Social Affairs have asked the Court of Auditors to examine themselves. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] As long as these exam results are not available, ladies and gentlemen, the presumption of innocence has to be applied – something that has always been demanded here in the Causa Rosenstingl. The institutions responsible for this, namely prosecutor's office and courts, will have to deal with the matter if there are any ambiguities. I believe that it is only unresponsible that the positive development in the labour market and the efforts of the Federal Government to achieve every single job with such actions should be made. They also shake the trust of those people in the AMS who depend on having access to the proven services because, for whatever reason, they have lost their jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl]] This is not a good service to the AMS and not a good service to the job seekers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13080	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. The ÖVP is still subject to a total quota of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13101	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Reitsamer, I agree with you that the Youth Employment Initiative of the Federal Government has been a success. No question at all! You don't have to say that there are seven – or whatever number – fractions in the house here. [[Abg. Rider: Six!]] - Or six, yes. This initiative was an emergency measure in a situation where, of course, the EIA could not see and wanted young people to be on the streets without training. No question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, Mrs. Reitsamer, that's not the subject today. [[Abg. Rider: Oh, yes!]] Two things are the subject, and you have heard them in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee. I have had to accuse the Federal Minister that she could actually have seen years earlier, how the age development of young people is happening – demographic data are clear – and that companies are constantly complaining and complaining about increasing costs in apprenticeship training. [[Abg. Reitsamer: How long has the Federal Minister been Federal Minister?]] At some point, the fact is that it has passed, and precisely those measures you have now listed, these special promotion measures or what we have implemented in the tax reform, show that you too have understood that apprenticeship training has become too expensive on average and therefore needs to be promoted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brix: This is not a contradiction!]] Secondly, There is a special facet of the Youth Employment Initiative, which was set up in 1997, which is called "Euroteam". I believe that Mrs Petrovic has already suggested that the word 'Euroteam' has the best chance of becoming the unword of the year. First, at European level, this "European Commission team" will ultimately be prompted by the Council of Wesen to relinquish its offices. What happened there? What does the wise man say? – In the area of social-democratic Commissioners, there were insufficient support controls, a preference from party institutions to the friendly economy and Nepotism. All of this includes – perhaps in a few pre-described terms – the present report of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee on the "Euroteam". And here the other factions, the opposition fractions, can still sound so loud: I am a witness in this regard, because I have been involved in all the Court of Auditors' subcommittees and have worked in them. Never have the indices been on several shortcomings – you just have to read it properly! – as close as this time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And there have also been corresponding consequences. One thing is especially dear to me as a researcher: "Forschungsgemeinschaft Stichtpfärger – Rieder", i.e. the preparation of a document on apprenticeship and vocational training analysis in the European Community. This much-Quoted work with its 600 pages – it has often been said – consists mainly of the reproduction of official papers of the European Community. [[Abg. Gaugg: 950 pages are it!]] I do not want to dispute that there is also a certain work inside – I do not mean the copying work – but the result is then the comparative overview: What is the name in Austrian, for example, of the cook? Yeah, it's called Koch. In the European Union it is called – Koch. In Austria, the magazine magazine, in the European Union, is called warehouse and magazine administrator at the hotel. The porter is called Portier in Austria, and in the European Union it is called Portier – and so on and so on. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I assume that these are the results that you have obtained from further orders and that your special qualifications should also justify the award of contracts free of charge. It must have been a huge mistake that has been made here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the law of the association has been very sloppy has already been said here and is also contained in the report. Who are the guilty for that? – I don’t want to condemn anyone, and not even a young person, but to receive 47 million schillings in a total of four years from different sides and not even to hear or demand a report from the auditor in this association – that’s really too much! That is really more than slutting in this area! Therefore, it should not be surprising if there are evidences that ultimately lead to statements of facts to the public prosecutor's office and to special audit orders from the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My time is not enough to show all that has appeared here – I say – indices and inconsistencies or inadequacies as mentioned in the report. Both the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Social Affairs have given an order to the Court of Auditors to carry out a special examination of this matter. In the media this has been commented on as an escape forward. There are only two ways to do this: There's also a flight forward, Mr. Arbitrator. It's a flight. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It would only be a good thing for some to flee forward. For example, the Minister of Defence!]] And the absence of the Federal Chancellor in this urgent question suggests that it is also an attempt to escape from political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A political summer theme just before the elections is taken care of!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13256	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Schweitzer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13277	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have been made aware of a remarkable contradiction by my colleagues Krüger: The son of the Federal Chancellor, Jan Klima, informed us in the Subcommittee of a written statement that he had only learned by reporting that he was an auditor in the "Euroteam". [[Abg. Brix: In the "Euroteam Burgenland"!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: No! Wrong!]] But, Mr Brix, his father, Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima, said about the press service of the Social Democrats that his son had merely declared his willingness to work as an accountant in an association. [[Abg. Reiter: At the "Euroteam Wien"!]] [[Abg. Brix: He said that!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Wrong! You have to study the files!]] So who's right now? Climate or climate? [[Abg. Ritsmer: Both!]] That is the question that now arises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Brix: If you mix that!]] I understand that the son of the Federal Chancellor, Jan Klima, has preferred not to perform the tasks as auditors, just as the father, Viktor Klima, preferred not to be here today, because many investigations have promoted many fearful people, which has taken place around this "Euroteam" complex. Awesomely, projects were promoted, such as extremely expensive ones – Mr Gaugg has mentioned one of them – with consistently the same characteristics. That's where you'll give me, colleague Otmar Brix. [[Abg. Brix: I don't think so!]] There is a highly paid project management everywhere – of course SPÖ member or SPÖ-near. There are expensive training staff – of course SPÖ members or SPÖ-near Austrians. There are expensive administrative staff – of course SPÖ members or SPÖ-near Austrians. [[Abg. Brix: Is there a provision in Austria where one can be a member?]] There are extremely expensive infrastructure investments, there are extremely expensive offices. For example, you have – listen! – established in Burgenland, in Eisenstadt, an office with complete infrastructure, with secretary, with project manager, in order to then set up another office in Oberwart and finally create seven training places for apprentices – in total extremely high costs, extremely high investments. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Brix]] If you look at the costs of travel abroad and travel abroad, you can see: The project manager has always been driving around and has caused enormous travel costs. [[Abg. Brix: What is important is what has been reckoned!]] And with what result? Now we come to the conclusion: The costs were enormous and benefited red partygoers and "red-party" Austrians. [[Abg. Brix: But that's not true!]] The costs were enormous. What happened? How many teaching institutions? Mrs Reitsamer, you said you have no time, the speaking time is limited. How many teaching places have been created? - Now it's my time. Say it! [[Abg. That's what I read to you!]] How many teaching places have been created with the entire "Euroteam" story, with these 47 million schillings so far? How many? [[Abg. Rider: You didn't pay attention to that!]] How many, Mrs Reitsamer? Tell me! How many teaching places have been created? How many? [[Abg. That is no question of questioning.]] How many? [[Abg. That is no question of questioning.]] I will make my speaking time available to you. [[Abg. That is no question of questioning. Ask the Salzamt!]] Mr Schieder! How many apprenticeships have you created? [[Abg. That is no question of questioning.]] That's my speaking time. My speaking time is available to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: She doesn't say it because she doesn't know!]] We're waiting! How many teaching institutions? How many? – One to two handfuls of teaching places, ladies and gentlemen, have been created with these 47 million schillings so far! [[Abg. Rider: 2,400!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ha, ha, ha!]] And that does not justify the financial effort! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 24 teaching places!]] And now to you, Mr Steindl! You realized it, of course, and you smell the story. So much effort, all the money goes to SPÖ, and only 24 teaching places! You smell the story. But now I'm asking colleagues from ÖVP and you, Mr Steindl: Why do you not agree with a committee of inquiry if the story smells like that? Why not? The answer was given by Mr Koppler. Col. Koppler comes out and says: Friends of the ÖVP! If you get messy, we'll pick up a few papers, and then we'll read about what the stupid thing about problems with labour market promotion in the forest district, then we'll see what the smoke-callat has to do at all points of problem. [[Abg. Haigermoser: She was there too?]] Then we will take the list that we have back there one step forward and read it down. – And this is it, Mr Steindl, what prevents you from clarifying this matter in an investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13609	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. A total of 6 minutes remain in the SPÖ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13631	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! What is a urgent question if we have this issue on the agenda today as item 19? – A question that every thinking person will be able to ask himself. Thankfully, Mr Lukesch has answered us in his contribution: We need a summer theme! The SPÖ is too successful, we need a summer theme. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ha, ha, ha!]] The summer theme is called "adapting". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many apprentices? How many? 24 Schools!]] So I'm not talking to you; if you can't distinguish 24 and 2 400, that's not a level of discussion. I'm sorry! Sometimes they count zeros, not always, but sometimes, especially when they hang on the back. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 24 apprentices around 47 million!]] Mr Feurstein said it very clearly. However, Mr Feurstein, the question of sun and shadows arises. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A difficult question! How many apprentices?]] The successes of the apprenticeship offensive, especially those of our Federal Chancellor, have put your policy in the shadow. And that's the difference in access. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Aha!]] Why did the Federal Government come to this offensive at all? – Because the economy in apprenticeship training and youth employment has unfortunately failed. Failed, Mr Steindl! That's fact. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Ah, now the economy is to blame! Or how?]] Mr Reitsamer has already shown what measures have been taken to enable the economy to train – not because the cost of it is too high because the economy has failed because it permanently withdraws its responsibility. That's exactly what's going on. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now fight in the coalition! What kind of picture does that make?]] Mr Steindl, I will show you something: Fohnsdorf, former teaching workshop of Siemens AG, 20 training places, Ministry of Economic Affairs. An administrative court case had to be filed so that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs could at last make this apprenticeship offensive possible, although there was no other trainer in the region. That's your policy? – This policy belongs to the shadows! By the way, it is itself in the shadows. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is the dignity of the house, when you argue?]] Of course, the liberals are always very strong when it comes to words, but very bad when it comes to actions. We'll see if Haider at least controls copying and not just talking. On the other hand, Mr Reitsamer has already mentioned a few figures. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Just not!]] That is why, Mr Oellinger, an interesting question. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: What is this interesting question?]] What is the percentage of ESF contracts about which we are discussing? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: 45 million for 24 apprentices!]] I would be interested, because the audit mandate has stated that "the review of labour market-related issues within the framework of the federal process" including "administrative management of labour market-related EU funding". I don't hear anything from all the successful projects, I don't hear any of the positive figures. We know them because it proves to us the labour market. It's 0.5 percent, and I think we should finally put the relations right here. That means in the reverse: 99.5% of the funds have been used very efficiently, because otherwise you would have asked questions about them too, otherwise you would have taken care of this issue as well. No one in the committee – neither the liberals nor the LIF, nor the Greens, nor the ÖVP – has taken care of these projects. You have obviously not been interested in them because they prove our success because they demonstrate the success of the Social Democratic members of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What now comes up with the question of "Euroteam"... [[Abg. Haigermoser: I have the strong suspicion that you believe what you're telling us!]] "Concealed" is the right keyword. If you have suspected, you also have the obligation to make an appropriate presentation and refund ad. Then this case lies with the courts. We're not a courthouse here. We have a Court of Auditors. This Court of Auditors serves as a control body and you have decided that these points should be examined. Today Mr Dolinschek complains that we had no time. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if you make a request, you should consider the consequences! Either it is so precise that one can handle it, or one must expect to fly on the nose because one cannot handle it. [[Abg. Böhacker: You have walled!]] You should be aware of your responsibility once! But as opposition parties, you don't need that. You just need to open your mouth inside, but you don't have any responsibility. [[Abg. Dolinschek: It is significant that you have tabled 28 amendments!]] It is probably better not to be responsible because we want to give young people a chance for the future. We don't want to scare the youth. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Bla, bla, bla!]] We know that we again have school leavers who have to take care of their apprenticeships, who are afraid of their place of teaching. With our offensives they will also find employment, a teaching centre or a training opportunity. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: 10 million per course!]] We're not going to let you or other politicians do that. We have success with this policy. Youth has confidence in us, and it rightly has confidence in us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13909	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Chief. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13930	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. The debate on "Euroteam" has already taken some time. The government is keen to switch from the "Euroteam" to a success story, and the opposition parties have endeavored, as well as in the Committee, to demonstrate this and to make it transparent to the public, which is indeed to be found in the area of "Euroteam": The Austrian courts will have to take action at least with three actions and with regard to three relevant case-laws, and we will then see how the rule of law of Austria "Euroteam" finally assesses. But one thing should not be kept silent in this context, Mrs Silhavy as my predecessor: Our idea and the idea of the majority here in the House is not that of the Social Democratic Group, which does not matter if 0.2 or 0.3 percent of the total tax money flows into dark channels. A schilling is already too much for us when it flows into dark channels. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. That's what someone who has a rose stingl in his ranks says!]] And please, Mrs Silhavy, take note at last! It is not the policy of the liberals, it is not the policy of opposition to take away something from the apprentices, but it is exclusively your policy and policy of your Federal Chancellor, money that was intended for the apprentices' offensive and for the economy to increase employment in Austria, to withdraw the apprentices and to direct his friends and his thirst. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] More than 40 million schillings have been awarded to "Euroteam". As soon as it is finally calculated, we will see what has benefited the apprentices and employment from this money and what has benefited "Euroteam", Mrs Silhavy. Any schilling, which has not led to the apprenticeship initiative and to employment, but has benefited only the Cabinet members and the other "Euroteam" members, is a misguided schilling for me. And please take note of that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will not succeed in washing up the Federal Chancellor in this debate or the summer. The Federal Chancellor is simple and simple for me. He has announced himself in the Committee for one and a half hours and has refused. He has refused this plenary today. I'm sorry, Mr. State Secretary. They have a classic role, namely that of the victim lamb of Biblical history, which must then sit here, which must carry on in the course of this session medications and brewing tablets in order to stand through them and make the facade for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. [[Abg. Nicer: My God!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Secretary of State Dr. Wittmann.]] You have not even deserved this, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we compile the reports on "Euroteam", I shall at least note one with satisfaction before the debate on the Court of Auditors' report and the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee report: Even the colleague, Mrs Silhavy and Mrs Reitsamer, have not been able to present the report and the minority report of the Group of the European People's Party at least as correct and as correct. The fact that the Free Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has submitted to the public a statement on several of its views on incriminating and inconspicuous points of the Public Prosecutor's Office is not to be kept silent. We will look very carefully, the Austrian public will also take a very close look at whether the public prosecutor works in the case of "Euroteam" as fast as in the context of a lawyer who has been sentenced in the case of a sum of just over 190 million schilling and in which the economic police have become active, or whether, in the case of "Euroteam", the public prosecutor's office, which will need investigation agencies longer than until the third. October to work it out in the appropriate form. [[Abg. Nicer: Not as long as at the Rosenstingl!]] For this, Mrs Silhavy, was also written to you in the main book: The outcome of the investigation in the Subcommittee and the hearing did not determine the opposition parties, but the time corset determined and specified exclusively the Social Democratic and the ÖVP Group. You were not willing to give us more time, you were not willing to give us in the appropriate form more space for the investigations. A "permanent declaration", as it would have been possible, has not been in your interest at all. [[Mr Silhavy and Mr Reitsam.]] And if you look at these documents, I have to say: For me, it is sad that there was no television in the Subcommittee, because when the reference report was presented, ladies and gentlemen, the faces of the Federal Ministers and the members of the Socialist Group present, including their experts, were more discussed than anything else. I regret this in today's debate that we cannot show it to the public.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14028	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Mr deputies, the Green Club has a 7 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14050	Mr President. High house! In this debate, Mr Koppler's speech, which said: Subsidies flow not only at the SPÖ, but also at the ÖVP and at all. [[Abg. Koppler: That's it! Everywhere!]] He then talked about the fact that the files on other problems, such as Lassing, are thicker than those in "Euroteam". From this one can only draw the conclusion, and so it was meant: Let's not talk about it! [[Abg. Koppler: That's nothing bad!]] We Greens, Mr Koppler, are talking about this. [[Abg. Koppler: You're a diploma politician!]] If Mr. Drozda makes an order for the Federal Chancellery for "Euroteam" and then is rewarded with a Supervisory Board post at "Euroteam", then this is a move. If Mr. Dr. Winternitz, a lawyer, can be consulted for 349 hours, is applied for in advertisements and then becomes Chairman of the Supervisory Board at "Euroteam", then this is a move. If Mr. Christian Hofbauer is applied for by the company Art and Graphic Design – contractor of "Euroteam", business partner of "Euroteam" – and then becomes Supervisory Board at the company "TBK-Euroteam Call Center GmbH" in Burgenland, then this is a move. If Ms. Astrid Hofer, Managing Director of TBK, receives an order from Call Center, but is already in a business relationship with the client of the company "Euroteam", is advertised in advertisements and then finally form this joint subsidiary, then this is a postponed matter. Let's stay with the example Call Center. That's where Mr. Chair-Parrer – he's sitting up here – says: We only got to know and love each other after the order. That was his opinion on weeks. Now, after we can prove it, because already in the "Economic Sheet" of 17th century. In September, four days before the public invitation to tender for the call center contract by the company "Euroteam", the joint company "Euroteam" and TBK said: Well, we've been talking before, we've known each other before. But this has not yet meant that we are a joint subsidiary. This is inaccurate and false.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14116	Excuse me, honourable Member. – I ask you to refrain from any consent or rejection from the balcony. – Please, continue, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14131	If Mr. Stuhlpahrer says that we have never applied for funding for this call center in Burgenland – he has said – then that is wrong. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You use your immunity! You are a user!]] Funding has been requested. If Mr Stahlpärer says that we are funding the projects with the profits, then that is unfair, because the documents prove exactly the opposite. If Mrs. Federal Minister says that the mission "Youth for a Chance" to the company Stühlpärer has brought good results, then this is unfair because the Minister of State has also said on the grounds of this mission: Only the company "Euroteam" of chair pears is able to develop six new apprenticeships within a year. I've been looking at this now: What of these lessons, which the company of chair pears has developed, has been implemented? What was implemented with support and through the cooperation of the company Lukas Stichtpfarrer Beratungsgesellschaft? – None has been implemented. It is also clear from the description of the project that all that the company Sühlpfarrer has attacked in this context was either already in advance or has not been implemented. New job opportunities have been promised. It's a man's or a woman's emergency. Only this company can get the order, and that's what happened, but it didn't come out in the final effect. Because the creation of the law firm's law firm's law firm's assistant firm, for notaries, does not go back to the company Stichtpfärer. There has already been a final application in the Advisory Board on Vocational Training. All these things that are claimed are not true. This is the point in which the Federal Chancellor's responsibility also comes to bear. The Secretary of State must explain to us here: We didn't know anything! He did not know anything about anything – not the Secretary of State, but here he speaks in favour of the Federal Chancellor, so to speak, as the Wachschmann of the Federal Chancellor. And that shows the whole issue of this issue. The Federal Chancellor shall explain to the State Secretary: We didn't know about anything! It is clear that all that has not been said cannot be known and that there is no political responsibility for it either. However, if it turns out that the suspicion is based on criminal action, if it turns out that the company "Euroteam" has not been able to complete a project properly until now, if it turns out that the public contracts which have been awarded to the company "Euroteam" have not yielded anything, except an application by the Federal Chancellor, if all of this turns out, then the political responsibility of the Federal Chancellor is all the more needed. I understand that the Federal Chancellor wants to avoid this responsibility. I understand, but I do not accept it, because this is a very serious political issue. It is not by chance that in his cabinet there are persons who have tried to award certain orders to the right companies. It is not by chance that this company, which then received the orders, operates in its own pocket. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is your own opinion!]] It is not by chance that these projects were not used with the profits of the Euroteam company, but rather that the opposite was the case, namely that the proceeds from the non-profit projects should be financed by the companies of Mr Stichtpfärr. It's not a coincidence. There is the political responsibility of a Federal Chancellor who cannot at this moment explain: We don't know about anything, and we don't have any idea. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni! Don't talk to me, maybe talk to your Federal Chancellor once! Look You turn on the entered faces in your own ranks! It's not a coincidence either. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 7 minutes are up! Your time is over!]] They are trying to deal with all the problems of the apprenticeship initiative and the so-called success of the apprenticeship offensive. But in this terminal you sit and sit the Federal Chancellor of this party or federal government. And hopefully he won't let go of this political responsibility anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14203	Mr Brix has now reported an actual correction. – Deputies! Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14227	Mr President. High house! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there was no time left at the meetings, because the time frame was set by the Social Democrats for the whole committee. [[Abg. May. Subject: No, I did not say that: Time-limit for the whole committee! You have a selective perceptiveness!]] I therefore put right and correct in fact: Over the entire time corset, about the load of the individual persons and about the topics, there was and there is an approach of all five parties agreed. [[Abg. May. Main: You're correcting something I didn't say!]] This chorded approach to this timeline is a protocol to the Official Protocol, so that you can read it as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14276	Mr Grollitsch has now spoken. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14297	Mr President. High house! I would just like to make a clear statement about the Stud.mont Jan climate that he can now examine his own cash register as a cashier, which is considerable. While the graduates of the Montan University have an average of six to eight months of waiting for a job, Jan Klima has entered the ÖIAG as Head of Division on the top floor. The dad took care of the son. He did it. – That only for the information about this person. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Brix: That's great! Sit down! Shame!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] – You can come out and correct it, Mr Cot! Mr Oellinger, I would like to suggest that he should keep his attacks against Mr Stahlpärer limited because he could clarify the green participation in this matter in the form of the secretary of Mr Voggenhuber. Because green manschlery is also included in the event. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14364	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14385	We are now entering into a short debate, and this debate concerns the request made by Mr Graf and Mr Genossen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 252/A by Mr Graf and Mr Genossen concerning a federal law amending the Banking Act, a period of time until 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The vote on this request will take place at the end of this debate. I would remind you of the terms of speech: Each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes. For the reasons of his request, the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes, and no comments from members of the Government and the State Secretary should exceed 10 minutes. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Graf, who is responsible for the motion. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14416	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We now come back to other things, as well as essential things, as we believe liberals, namely Austrian banking secrecy, ergo anonymity. In the parliamentary exercise, one should never fail to try to do so if there is a need for action somewhere, as the socialists would say, until the last minute. I believe that the story of the Austrian banking secret and, in particular, the one which has been untreated here in the House since June 1996 - or has been tried several times in several committees to address or treat it, but it has been tried by the coalition parties, because it is unpleasant for them to talk about a subject that concerns the Austrian financial centre, last few months ago in the financial committee of the House - is worth starting here, perhaps in the last parliamentary debate of this period, a change in the position of the coalition. That is why we have tabled this deadline proposal, because we believe that the example of the drinking tax in Austria is also showing that the EU is now making a clear decision on the implementation of its directives and that it can only be a matter of time until it is also anonymity - similar to that of the beverage tax - and we will have to make a decision on the drinking tax these days, which I have heard - perhaps a "surprising" condemnation, surprisingly only for the coalition parties, which is why we see a need for action. As far as the drinking tax is concerned, it is obvious that in the next few days, I have heard this, we will declare a committee permanent, if the decision of the European Union should come so that we can react quickly. But that means that we are very likely to have to act as legislators when a European decision is before the ECJ. At least this is the opinion of the Coalition. It was always different with banking secrecy. The Minister of Finance has been constantly and in full communication on the decision-making of the House on this issue, where it would be only a matter of strengthening banking secrecy in order to better protect consumers, savers from access to finance, from the treatment of credit institutions themselves, but also with regard to their incomes: As an Austrian legislator, we must not decide for so long as a procedure is in place in Europe because otherwise we could have a negative impact on this issue. And that's how they pushed it to the long bench. The tax on beverages shows that it is different and has to go differently. In my opinion, the connex on the drinking tax is quite clear, and it is therefore also necessary that we do some thing with regard to anonymity, because a large budget hole will be created. You'll try to stop this budget hole. We will certainly have new sources of taxation from the coalition, and it is already important that we ensure a strict banking secrecy in good time so that the Minister of Finance who is greedy on this issue may be taken seriously. I believe that it will then be very likely to resort to the tax on property and reintroduce it again, that the savings bank rates on income tax rates will very well be adjusted and that, in order to stop this budget hole, we will probably also remember to raise the unit value, all at the expense of the citizens, the Austrians and consumers. I believe that, at the latest, when the change in the taxation of beverages comes, we will also need an increase in banking secrecy. Otherwise, it is likely that the consumer will continue to be unprotected. I also believe that it cannot be the parliamentary exercise that one cannot deal with a request for three years that one cannot make a decision. In Austria – whether anonymity is preserved in Austria as a specification or not – we need a banking secret of international format, according to the model of Switzerland or Luxembourg, which ultimately protects the saver from many concerns, especially from its own credit institution, but also from the Fisk and the financial authority. I believe that this is important and necessary, and we must finally make a decision on this if we want to get the Austrian financial centre. The introduction of the share tax, which has already been decided, is another attack on the Austrian financial centre, and we must not go around it like the dream men. If we just want to get Austria's financial centre as a functioning financial centre, then we'll need a banking secret that deserves the name banking secrecy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This request, which we would have liked to have dealt with several times in the Committee, would have had to be voted on in order to show the citizens before a decisive election in Austria, who are in favour of the interests and for the protection of citizens and savers, and who, as we have to say quite clearly, is not in favour of a functioning banking secret, who does not want to have a criminal offence in the banking sector, as is the case in Switzerland if any information is negligent to the public. It would be essential to point out who does not want there to be a return of evidence in the Austrian Banking Act. The simple citizen is made impossible – therefore, there are few evidence or convictions within the meaning of the Banking Act from criminal standards in Austria – to create a situation of proof that guarantees a successful penetration. In reality, someone who commits the infringement of the law – in some cases the credit institution or others – has all the evidence in hand. It is therefore necessary to introduce a reversing of the burden of proof on this issue, similar to in Switzerland, similar to in Luxembourg. It is also quite simply necessary to prevent the introduction of the asset tax which the socialists are now obviously vehemently pushing forward, to reinforce banking secrecy accordingly in order to prevent it from taking action. I think it is necessary to have another discussion on this issue and to bring about a decision. It is true that a first-class funeral was held during the last postponement in the Financial Committee by not dealing with this request. But this has happened almost to all opposition applications in the last few weeks and months. One has not had the cutting from the government side or from the government parties to simply say: We reject it, and we confess to reject it. I take from it that, in reality, everyone agrees with us on this issue, but simply do not have the cutting to bring about changes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are so crazy-cut guys! That's crazy!]] If the Minister of Finance says permanently on this question: There are no plans for changes in banking secrecy, there are currently no plans in Austria to make changes to banking secrecy, then he does not actually know Parliament's activities. It is true that we liberals are here in good company. There are almost no well-known bank managers, renowned economic operators or business politicians who do not also believe that we need more stringent handling and a stricter law on this issue, regardless of the existence of anonymity in Austria or not – for the sole reason that we want to preserve Austria's financial centre and secure Austrian savings. In the context of this concern, we had to find that a government election promise was broken again and again, as it was said that the euro was a hard currency and that the government would look at it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Even if you say that, it's wrong! But that doesn't matter!]] Mr Parnigoni! You only need to read papers, but that obviously overshadows you. It is clear from the roofs that the euro is not a hard currency! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Even if you say that, it's wrong! It's still wrong!]] It is a matter of Socialists can still act for this. I believe that in this respect too, we owe the Austrians something to protect their savings from the government's access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14503	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. For you and the following speakers, a limit of 5 minutes applies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14525	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Bank secrecy and savings bank anonymity are repeatedly confused and misrelated. Obviously this has been done by the applicants, i.e. the FPÖ in this case. Anonymity of savings books: It is currently under the ECJ's examination, that is, the European Court of Justice, whether anonymity complies with or does not comply with the money laundering directives. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Government takes the view in the procedure that the saving book anonymity is not appropriate to facilitate money laundering. On the average Austrian savings books are usually small amounts, and they are not suitable for money laundering purposes. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! It remains to wait for the judgment of the ECJ, because a "what would be if? "- discussion is harmful to the Austrian capital market, and you should also note that. [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you promise the people before the EU vote?]] – Let us first wait for the judgment, and we will see which measures will then be taken with the representatives of interest! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] With regard to banking secrecy, the following shall be added: It is undisputed that the Austrian banking secret has EU conformity and will therefore not be affected by the ECJ judgment. There is therefore no need for further expansion or strengthening of banking secrecy, as Austria has the sharpest banking secret internationally and across the EU alongside Liechtenstein, Luxembourg and Switzerland. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is wrong, Mrs. Colleague!]] - That's right! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Talk to bank directors!]] Johannes Ortner has written a study on banking secrecy in international comparison, and he has found that in this study. There is therefore no immediate need to agree to this submission by you, by the FPÖ. The SPÖ therefore does not agree with your deadline request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14593	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European It's stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can connect seamlessly to the statements made by my predecessor. Today, if we have a brief debate on banking secrecy and anonymity, we are essentially discussing two key elements of the economy in Austria. We must take account of two main aspects. The first aspect is that money is, of course, an extremely sensitive commodity and the confidence of the small saver, the investor in his savings book, who of course has an incredibly high priority in the security of his investment. That's not a question at all. To secure this is our primary concern. On the other hand, as a second aspect, we have to take into account the international fight against money laundering. I quite agree with my previous speaker that both the directive on money laundering and the well-known § 189 of the EU Treaty only set the goal of combating money laundering, but not the means. My party and I also believe that the small saver with his small savings book is not the instrument of international money laundering. It is ridiculous to believe that the small savings book is the means by which money laundering is operated internationally in a large style. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have the declaration of due diligence of our banks. Any deposit of more than 200 000 S shall be authorised by the holder. Secondly, we have the provisions in the §§ 39 to 41 Banking Act, according to which, at the least suspicion of money laundering, the EDOK, the special unit against organized crime, is immediately to be agreed. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we both have enough. We have the security of investors and savers due to the combination of anonymity and banking secrecy, and we also have the certainty that we have done everything we can to avoid the state community wanting to fight crime arising from money laundering. On the other hand, I would like to say that per futuro I do not at all exclude an intensification of banking secrecy. It would be only now, as Mrs Hagenhofer rightly said, the very wrong time. There would be practically a "What would be if?"-legislation. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Like the drink tax!]] In other words, in the event that the ECJ should perhaps abolish anonymity – that is, a legal dispute – we are now making banking secrecy more cautious. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a signal to the ECJ would be so counterproductive that it is not responsible to raise such a claim. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Let's be surprised!]] I very much regret that in this House there is a political group which, with this desire, weakens the position of Austria before the ECJ. I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14669	Mr Mag. Firlinger! You're the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian banking secret is dizzy like the Swiss cheese. Many experts agree. This is also a picture of Mr Hagenhofer's attempts at violence and that of his colleague, Mr Hagenhofer. It is, ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore urgently repaired – not tomorrow and not the day after, but today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you want to clog the holes to the Swiss cheese?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was a lot of talk. Many initiatives on this subject have been launched. They have been voted down by a majority in the committee. They have made the request in the Committee quite flattened. For three years he has been there, Mr. Cot. You have not taken it seriously, ladies and gentlemen. As so often in political practice: They do not take the opposition's requests seriously. You didn't take it seriously in the drinking tax either. Now experience your blue miracle, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then you play the surprises of the government parties: They are overwhelmed by a decision of the European Court of Justice. . I tell you, Mr President, the question of anonymity will be the same for you. Because you have, together with your government partner, Mr. Col. Stummvoll, published the Austrians in the 1994 campaign. They have spread the untruth. They have spread four great untruths. You remind me, ladies and gentlemen: The first untruth was the question of neutrality. The second gross untruth was the famous Ederer-Tausender. That too was wrong, there was no Eder-thousand to see – second untruth. Third Untruth, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen: You said the schilling is not tangled, the schilling remains the way it is. Mr Klima then said: If one day the common currency comes, then this currency will be as hard as the schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll show you something. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] These are the results of only six months of socialist government policy in Austria and Europe. This is the dramatic decline of the euro, and this is the result of lies. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that with this dramatic clarity. For this, ladies and gentlemen, speaks volumes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you were willing, you'd go out and tell the Austrians: We have fooled ourselves on the issue of anonymity, and the European Court of Justice will abolish it, acting retroactively with 1. January 1994 – Date of accession to the EEA, not 1. January 1995, but 1994 – and then it's rolled up. Ladies and gentlemen! The background for me is perfectly clear: The Minister of Finance has now adopted a small tax package with a lack of courage and need, which he is not in a position to afford. Secondly, it is a tax package that does not deserve the designation and, moreover, it now has to finance a refund for the drinking tax. With the Austrians, 1 645 billion Schilling are bound by savings books. What is more obvious than the behaviour of Federal Minister Edlinger? – He says there is no need for action. Then let us once again be overwhelmed by the EU authorities. We are waiting, as he has always said, for the decision of the European Court of Justice to be taken. Then there is no anonymity, then there is no intensification of banking secrecy, and then there is a pleasant side effect for the Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Then it is declared retroactively, then we introduce capital taxation, and then we've earned the 16 billion schilling from taxpayers' pockets again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I dare this prognosis today, ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== ==References== Take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14771	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dr. Stummvoll is known for his brilliant analysis. Only now have you disagreed with your speech. On the one hand, you have rightly said that banking secrecy and anonymity are two pairs of shoes. That's right. The request of the liberals refers exclusively to banking secrecy. The word "anonymity" occurs for the first time in the explanatory statement. If this is the case that banking secrecy and anonymity are two pair of shoes and the application refers exclusively to banking secrecy, then it cannot be irresponsible and cannot weaken the position of Austria before the European Court of Justice because anonymity does not occur. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Wait! Whether the anonymity remains or not remains – in that case the request of the liberals, which, as we know, do not question anonymity at all in their very large populism... – No, Mr. Dr. stupidly, that's not what he is, we already have to analyse exactly that. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is the wrong time!]] The liberals do not question anonymity because they would never do such a thing in their great populism. Even the neutrality debate they withdrew when they noticed that it was not possible. So that is practically what Graf really wants us to get a reasonable banking secret in Austria, anonymity to or from here, and that is the point. In Austria, we have a non-necessary banking secret, which has been lost in many ways. I believe that in Austria we could take an example by a Swiss banking secret, which assumes that there are number accounts, of which, of course, every one of these accounts – the management of the bank, but not the little employee or the small man at the counter knows who this account belongs. Therefore, in the case of money laundering, in the case of criminal acts, tax evasions, or whatever, if a judicial order is available, it is necessary to understand each individual account. That is the purpose and purpose of the proposal, and therefore, I believe, it is right to discuss this request. It is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that I too must repeat here as an opposition member. It is indeed a scandal, as you deal with serious opposition proposals, from whichever party they may come. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website February 1997 and the postponement in the 1998 Financial Committee. I do not think this is a wise process because, if it is true – it is also true what Hagenhofer says, namely that anonymity and banking secrecy are two or two shoes – this request, which focuses exclusively on banking secrecy, can be dealt with at any time. Because it has already fallen in the debate today, a few words on the question of the European Court of Justice's action against Austria [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] He has a pig in his hand, you all know him, our valuable Minister of Finance, and he will defend anonymity by all means. – It will not make use of it because anonymity does not fit into the European legal building and because something has not yet been discussed, namely the question of the e-cash industry, the question of the Internet, the question of access via data lines to accounts, on which the limit of 200 000 s at one time becomes quite different. For 1 000 times a transfer of 200 000 s is also 200 million schilling. I think that if we want to maintain the reputation of Austria's bank square – and we want to do so, we benefit from the fact that many people are investing their money in this beautiful country – first of all we want to increase banking secrecy. The free movement proposal seems to me to be a useful alternative to a debateable alternative in the Committee on Finance. Secondly, we should refrain from this obsolete instrument of anonymity, because if banking secrecy is heightened accordingly, this can provide the same protection without having the anonymity which in electronic commerce becomes an actual threat to the security of the bank place Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14840	Mr Van der Bellen, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14862	Mr President. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I think it is not quite right for the money laundering directive to set itself a goal of preventing money laundering, but, as far as I can remember, there is probably also talk of customer anonymity. Now you and I know that the anonymity of the savings accounts for money laundering is probably very poor, at least for the parking of black money and so on. However, this does not change the fact that the money laundering directive is in fact aggressively attacking this specification of Austrian banking. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But that doesn't make sense, Mr. Van der Bellen!]] That is one of the reasons why this will probably not be kept before the ECJ. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The little savings book! That doesn't make any sense!]] Yeah, but I need it. You can't say that. That is the content of the money laundering directive. I do not think it irresponsible to do something now because of an expected ECJ judgment. I also do not understand why you see a weakening of the Austrian position in it. If But you can see that, Mr President, I ask myself: Haven't you been negotiating with SPÖ for hours because of the drinking tax history? Isn't that exactly the same? Why don't we wait for the ECJ to decide? Then we can still act. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We don't fix! We're not making any hush-fush repairs!]] – It doesn’t give me any idea why you have so much time in one case, and in the other case, it probably has to happen tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Peter: Fracksausen is called that!]] Mr Firlinger! I can win a lot from Graf's request, but the connection with the euro exchange rate is probably zero, absolutely null. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The first question is: How honest is the government?]] – The course development is an interesting question that you raise, but you would have to compare it to the hypothetical case, which would be if it were still D-Mark and Schilling and the schilling were bound to the D-Mark. How would the exchange rate of the D-Mark have changed in the meantime? – Enjoy the exam. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The facts speak against the euro!]] Nor am I satisfied with the development of the euro exchange rate, but this has absolutely nothing to do with the anonymity or with banking secrecy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But with the breaking of the election promises!]] I can do much to get rid of your request, Mr Graf, and it is also true that we do not need to further classify the handling of the coalition with the opposition requests, with yours and with our requests. Your request is dated 28. ==References== But today, 13th. ==References====External links== Deciding on July – I fear it’s better to postpone it to autumn. - Yeah, last Thursday. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Last Thursday you also requested a deadline!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is only a week!]] – We would have had a week anyway. When do we do this now? - No, let's do it after 3. October! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can argue like that once and for all!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15017	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. The subject of this vote is the request, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 252/A by Mr Graf and Mr Genossen concerning a federal law amending the Banking Act, a period of time until 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. 14. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1897 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Protection, Conservation and Use of Archives (Bundesarchiv Act) (2030 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15059	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15086	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Državni Secretary! Visoki stupid! [[Abg. Wabl: Bravo!]] High house! Good evening, Mr. Wabl. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The Liberals will reject the archival law. I'll explain this briefly. In principle I must say that we are pleased that at least in some form there is an archival law in the country. That was a desire that the Liberals have made very often. It is very important to really preserve archives. But this law is far too short, ladies and gentlemen. I can only address a few things which have already been presented in part in the Committee, but which should also be stressed here in part, as well as some new points. It is an ineffective law because it excludes wide areas of archives. Especially in the area of the communities, in the area of the churches, in the field of the countries, there is only a moderate protection by this law. That is to say, one could have made a big throw, and the first draft that came from the officials was also better, has taken further action, was more oriented especially towards research and science and less arrested in this, so to speak, pseudo-nationalization. This was a law which the federal government clearly defined, which is an archival property, which is to be protected and above all – that is the central point, and that is the central criticism of the liberals – as one must consider between the interests of the producers of archival goods, often also the owner of archival property and the public interest in the use of archival goods. It is basically about the question of the freedom of research and teaching. And the basis for yesterday's knowledge – which is also relevant to today's – are just written and other basics. And since this archival law is far too short, especially by the fact that it begins to limp at the beginning, by referring to and calling on the Monumental Protection Act. Of course, this often makes the terms quite unclear, and so many things, which are worth protecting and protected by the Monumental Protection Act, are not covered by the Archival Act. In addition, the protection of the monuments in question is much less extensive, with much fewer objects. However, I would like to make it clear that this is not a question of property. This should not be in the foreground. Of course, archival property should remain in the possession of those posts that have so to speak produced it. It is not about the question of interference in property law, but about the issue of the enforcement of a particular public interest in the use of archives. The history shows that archivals often go a very strange way through history, so many things happen to be in the possession of someone who at the time had nothing to do with these archival principles at all. It is therefore the accessibility of research – at least for my person, I say so – an essential prerequisite for learning certain things to be achieved by means of an archival law. I also come to talk about some very delicate things. In Section 5, for example, it is the requirement that the Austrian State Archives should consult the Federal Offices "at their request". . I believe that there should rather be an advisory obligation, a right of consultation and, above all, an obligation of the state archive as a relevant authority. It should not be as it is now, that the Authority only, if it has an interest in it, alerts the State Archives to the fact that archivals are attacking. It would be necessary to carry out an ongoing monitoring process. I also do not understand the privileged and exaggerated protection and the special position, for example in § 6 para. 3 is reflected in the fact that the descendants of State Secretarys, Federal Ministers, Chancellors and Deputy Chancellors suddenly have the right to decide on certain documents that have arisen in connection with their function. I believe that the protection provisions of § 7 are in fact entirely sufficient. That would be enough. These are constitutional institutions of the Republic, state security interests which should not be at risk; this is quite clear. It is not so much about identifying personal data from someone – you could also anonymize it – but it is very specific about materials that someone has acquired in connection with his function. The whole thing becomes completely incomprehensible if the offspring suddenly have an insight into supposedly stately incredibly important documents, such as those that Mr Soronics had at home. This is a completely incomprehensible provision for me. All of this has been revised, ladies and gentlemen. That's a sloppy law. However, criticism does not go in the direction of officials. I've talked a lot about it with these guys. The officials would have liked to present something better, but the policy has not allowed it. Suddenly one got scared of the countries or of one's own courage. It would be possible, as has been said, to make a solution by, for example, summating by making anonymizations or by imposing a copy ban. That would be completely enough, ladies and gentlemen. It is – and I would like to stress this very consciously – about the public right to information and insight into archives. This is the basis for the fundamental right of freedom of research and teaching. This is a constitutional principle, but this law does not respect this constitutional principle. This basic idea and the application of this basic idea of our constitution are missing from this law. There is no uniform use order at all – even a big problem. Getting Now They ask: Why should a Parliament also deal with the use of archives? – Ladies and gentlemen! The accessibility to archives is very, very different. When you talk to the scientists, you'll hear, there are archives where you get to the volumes you're looking for very quickly, and there are some other archives – for example the Carinthian Land Archives; I've mentioned them more often than not here – in which it takes a very long time to get to the desired materials, and very "researchers" whether you're even going to do it. Again: It's not a question of property. And it would also be right to consider using archival – especially from the private or semi-private area as in the church – whether there should be a right to deposit payments. In any case, it is not about the transfer of archivals to the property of the Federal Archives. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to try at least an improvement by a request that I am going to read. This is: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is at least a small repair attempt, and I would of course like to say that there are several such anomalies in this law. For example, the same authorities, which researchers can refuse access to materials, are ultimately the final ones. That is to say, there can be no doubt that certain things disappear, as we would have liked to see them today, for example, in connection with "Euroteam", at least as an archival to examine how this scandal was then. Now, however, the same authorities that create the archives – in other words, by writing, by writing, by writing – decide on the right of insight and also determine whether, so to speak, the most important interests of anyone are affected. We do not find this to be all right: that "complainants" and "directors" are represented in the same authority or that two interests are taken by one and the same body. This will not be done by the authority either, for § 5 clearly states that these bodies, which I have just quoted, are responsible for the decision, and that is incomprehensible. I also believe that the regulatory authority for the Federal Government in § 5 para. 4 is simply not in order, for in this empowerment it is stated that, in the end, the Federal Government alone decides what type of writing is the property of an archival property. I don't think that's all right either. At least one should deal with the state archive. Overall – and this does not only apply to the area of the new, so to speak, modern media – it would be important to make sure that other independent experts, for example, from the circle of a special archival council, are also involved in the sorting. There would have to be a more practical law at all. Wide areas are not regulated by this law at all. For example, it is imposed on the Minister of Justice to lay down in detail a regulation to lay down the classification. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in principle the law must be incorporated into the law that independent experts should be involved, that, so to speak, a council of non-affected scientists is involved and, above all, not by persons affected by the authority. Then there would be a chance that we would come to correspondingly accessible archives. All in all, I believe that we can still be glad that there is at least something like an archival law. It is at least an attempt, but very important areas of other archives and archives have been excluded. I would have expected a little more courage from the Federal Government, especially in connection with the current needs, ladies and gentlemen. We know that a few weeks ago, the Historical Commission began its work, and we are going to get to them of the things that will come. I hope that it will be possible, in this area in particular, to come to the appropriate sources perfectly, clearly and quickly. Individual occurrences in some archives cause more fear of evil. I have received reports from researchers from some universities who are very likely to complain about handling some archives. I hope that this will be a little different at least in connection with this great work of our sad history, which is not long ago. In this sense: This law is an attempt – not more than that, but at least a not enough attempt for the consent of the Liberal Forum.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15156	The amendment tabled by Mr Smolle, the amendment to § 3 para. 7 is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Hlavac has now spoken. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15180	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say to my colleagues Conflicting Smolle: This is not an ineffective bill. I think he is a rather sensible and balanced draft law, but I admit that I too would have wanted a wider scope. The fact that the country archives are not included, for example, I think is a advertising drop. We have, however, very probably formulated an amendment concerning the private sector. In connection with the work of the Historical Commission, the desire has been articulated to make a regulation for the private sector as well, ensuring that important documents are preserved. Mr President. I should now like to make this amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would ask that this request be included in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! For what Mr Smolle has mentioned here, for this tension relationship between the desire of science and, on the other hand, the task of taking into account data protection, I believe, a good solution has been achieved. There are measures to enable a person concerned to request correction, and there are periods of protection after which an insight into the archive material can be taken into account. These deadlines vary. They are 20, 30 years old, in some cases 50 years old. I believe that this will be a good solution, and I believe that this draft law will regulate the important protection, storage and use of documents interesting for history research in a way that is clear, clear and practical both for research and for citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15249	The amendment tabled by Mrs Hlavac has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now appoint Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits spoke with a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15273	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Smolle presented the amendment which concerns two facts from the Federal Archives Act. We, the groups of the Liberals and the Greens, have tabled this amendment together, so to speak, because we have problems with the archival law. It's about two concrete things. He referred to the bill as an attempt, but as an improper attempt so that he cannot be given the consent. I would like to follow his words and say that an old demand – especially the scientist, the time historian – for a federal archive law has been implemented to a certain extent by this law. This must be said, and must be said, because this Federal Archives Act is better than no Federal Archives Act at all. But the fact that the way is going again, as we will see in some of the points still to be discussed today and in the next few days, is disappointing. I wonder, If you do something – and there is something that is so to speak unique, because this matter is regulated in this form for the first time – why leave it in an inadequate attempt and do not take into account the path of a law that takes into account the legitimate objections – especially the objections that have come from science? – I don’t understand, Secretary of State. I do not understand, above all, why one has not been able to meet the wishes or the very precise suggestions of the Historical Commission. The Historical Commission has a causal connection with the creation of the Federal Archives Act. If the Federal Government or, in this case, the First and Second President of the National Council, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor had not decided to set up a Historic Commission, then – that is my presumption – the decision-making of a Federal Archives Act would not have been done in this form. That is why I do not understand why we do not agree with the suggestion made by the great coalition, which is being used by all. It legitimately says: In order to comply with the mandate of the National Council and the Government, the Federal Archives Act would have to look different! This is a very important objection. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I would like to take this opportunity to make a comment on Austria's dealings with the history of time, a note which has something to do with the Federal Archives Act indirectly, but in some respects also directly. I mean the question of the return of stolen and stolen images. Not even a year ago, the National Council, also with the agreement of the Group of the Liberal Forum and the Greens, approved a proposal for a law on the provision of stolen images by the Minister Gehrer. At the time, I have said from the speaker's point of view that I consider this to be a very decisive step and that I support this path that the Federal Minister has taken not only personally, but also in association with the entire Green Group, and that I think it is a point of direction – despite some criticisms, and precisely these criticisms that have affected the weaknesses have now proved to be correct. An example: The Commission examines the right to restitution and, in my opinion, decides against the intention of the legislator. For the second time, heirs of Nazi victims are now being extorted and humiliated by the Republic of Austria. Otherwise, the procedure related to Maria Altmann's legitimate claims cannot be described as the heir of the Bloch-Bauer Collection. You also have the opportunity to read to Mr State Secretary, and also to colleagues, how this is judged by lawyers. This procedure is lupen-clean blackmailing. I believe that it is precisely at the moment when the Federal Archives Act, which is also a non-essential gesture of the Republic of Austria in relation to the reworking of recent history, is decided to refer to it. It would be easy to clarify the provisions law and clarify it. It is not yet a content assessment who is right and who is wrong if one sets the claim simply to make the AVG applicable to the Restitution Act. This path, as we all know now, was not consciously taken at that time. If we had decided to do so at the time, then Maria Altmann would have a party position in the proceedings today. So she is downgraded to a mere bitter and cannot influence what her legal heritage is. I think that the chosen path in all the proceedings so far is an inadequate course of action, and I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to act primarily on Mrs Gehrer to ensure that this does not call into question the international reputation that Austria has acquired through the procedure previously mentioned in connection with the Historical Commission and the relevant law in the matter of the provision of the Bloch-Bauer Collection and the Klimt Images. It's not too late yet, nor can you make corrections. But if nothing like that happens, Mr State Secretary, I fear that a great deal of work has been done in recent months for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15331	You did not make a request, Mrs Deputies. Mr Morak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15356	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Firstly, I would like to point out that I was one of the first to point out the need for an archival law, both here in the House and in the press. Secondly, Of course, an archival law takes its actuality not only from the Historical Commission, but also very well, but above all from the need for us to look for our historical consciousness – that is always stated here in this country – and for the search for our identity. It is, of course, also natural to adapt to the European standards for the preservation and use of archives. However, the Archives Act has also become necessary in order to maintain or create science's access to archives, which would have been substantially restricted by the data protection regulation adopted today. However, this archival law is also to be seen in connection with the Monumental Protection Act, which provides that, in case of danger in default, company archives can be secured. It is primarily about the role of close-to-state enterprises, especially in the post-war period. It has already been noted today that the present archival law is exclusively concerned with and refers to the archives of the federal government and the opportunity to create a federal law valid for all archives has unfortunately been rejected. You have to say: The people responsible for this task have failed to meet an old federalist principle, namely, if one wants anything from the countries to negotiate with the countries as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15396	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Second word. 8 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15431	Mr President. I failed to believe that Mr Smolle has made both requests for reading. He didn't do that. Therefore, I would like to read the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is one of the essential points which the Historical Commission calls for and whose implementation it wishes to achieve an effective activity within the framework of the Federal Archives Act, whose outcome should also be based on the mandate of the Federal Government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15482	The application has now been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, and since it is also supported accordingly, it is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Kurzmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15506	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom of the National Council will be in agreement with the new Federal Archives Act. We are doing so because our criticism has been largely taken into account and the first draft has been revised and improved in many respects in accordance with the review procedure. This new law specifically welcomes, first, the comprehensive protection of archives, which is now guaranteed for the first time by its own law and not only by the provisions of the Monumental Protection Act, second, the legal definition of what is actually archival property, thirdly, the clear rules on the period of locks which are similar in the European environment to those of us today, and fourthly the indications for conditions of use which, following the corresponding adaptation by the federal archives in the federal states, could also be incorporated into still to be adopted. The revision of the first draft, which, as you all know, was centralist and would have gone beyond the expropriation of the national and, above all, the urban archives, was urgently necessary, and this step you took was therefore also very reasonable. As you know, there has been massive protests from the federal states, but also from the cities, all of them on the federalism that has grown historically in Austria – in my view quite rightly! ==References== The repair of this law was also so important because a case at the Constitutional Court would certainly have had a prospect of success, because access to the archives of the states and municipalities for the federal government – the state archive – cannot be regulated by simple federal law in the absence of constitutional jurisdiction. The law would have become completely imperceptible if the original provisions regarding the acts of the so-called indirect federal administration had been maintained. The separation of the stocks belonging to the Federation, the country and now the city would have led to a pluralization of the staff in the archives. The destruction of historically grown stocks would undoubtedly have resulted. Finally, I would like to make another amendment which is in line with the wishes of the Committee on Historians.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15571	The amendment has just been properly submitted, is supported and is under negotiation. Mr Wittmann has now been reported to speak. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15595	Mr President. High house! The Federal Archives Act, which is under negotiation today, is an adaptation to international standards. We have thus drawn up a law which does not need to hide the international comparison. Unfortunately, if the archival property was previously only protected by the Monumental Protection Act, this law now includes access for the individual to the archival property. I believe that in this sense it has fulfilled a twofold function: the one is the protection of the archive property in itself, the second is access to the archive material. There are still some essential provisions contained in this law. First of all, the definition of the archive material would be in itself. The draft also contains a commitment to the proper archiving of the Federal Archives. The specific feature of this draft is also defined: The archival property of the federal government is not only the archival property, but also the archival property. The Federal Offices are stored, but also those which are kept in bodies created by federal law and which are under the dominant influence of the Federal Government. I believe that this is one of the essential points. In addition, of course, special protection provisions are also included in this law that the data protection of the data subjects, i.e. those who provide this archive material, is guaranteed and that a shorter than the 30-year term of protection is also possible in the field of science. Novalis said 200 years ago: "The archive is the memory of the state." – I think we should be particularly proud to have a lot of archive material available, and we should treat and protect it accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15631	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the draft law in 2030. Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. There is also an amendment tabled by Dr Kurzmann and Comrades. In addition, MEPs have Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits and comrades submitted an additional and amending proposal. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Kurzmann and comrades as well as Deputies Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled word-identical amendments concerning § 2 which we shall vote on under one. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law, now as part of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning § 3. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning § 16. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This request has been adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft law a third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. 15. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1811 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Cleaning of the Simple Federal Laws and Regulations, which were announced before 1946 (First Federal Law Purification Act – 1. BRBG) (2031 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15725	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker to speak was Mr Jarolim. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15752	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The First Federal Law-Currency Act takes an essential step towards a long-standing effort to simplify the legal system, which aims to improve access to justice. However, access to justice can be improved by various measures. On the occasion of this law I would also like to say a few words about the density of the legal system. In the past, we have taken action in procedural cases, in particular with regard to the acceleration of procedures, particularly in the context of the last set of thresholds, in order to ensure that the proceedings pending before the Court are speeded up and the possibility of limiting the duration of the proceedings is given. This is, of course, a problem in that, when considering, on the one hand, strengthening legal protection and, on the other hand, limiting the duration of the proceedings, the decision always takes place at the expense of one of the two sides. It is therefore important to find a reasonable balance. The second point is that we hear over and over again that there are too many regulations that the number of laws is too large. However, such argumentation must always take into account, in whose favour, first and foremost, the density of the regulations, the density of the laws, the density of the legal system actually goes. Of course, it is not the socially strong one who depends on the laws to compensate more or less for what the other has in "natural" enforcement. It is therefore important to insist that the public debate, the opinion that too many laws are at least bad, should not exist in this simplistic form. What happens to the law itself: In order to amend the content, the draft which is under discussion today provides that all the regulations which were put into effect before 1946 will be repealed if they are not explicitly mentioned in the annex to the law. It is a relatively undisputed measure, and after an extensive examination – one has to say that this project has already been running since 1986 – in which the individual regulations have been reviewed for effectiveness, need, ease of use and verifiability, those regulations which have not complied with these criteria and whose survival is not necessary for other reasons, for example, because they are particularly important because they are necessary to continue to transfer them. I think this project is a start. Even the date – these are legal instruments until 1946 – shows that, of course, there is still the need to continue to search through the laws as much as it is necessary and important to keep the laws under discussion as simple as possible. But the discussion in detail also shows that it is not always so easy to make regulations that are ultimately intended to incorporate contradictory social demands, so easy that everyone knows at first reading – namely, the one not necessarily concerned with matter – what is meant by them. In this respect, this project is a first step, and I am particularly grateful to all those who have been involved in it, including the Federal Chancellor's Office Constitutional Service, the Party Secretariats here in the House, in the Parliament, and something that has contributed to it, because it was a very large task, a very extensive task and yet it is also a great step towards simplification and understanding of the law. I assume that we continue to work on it and, of course, we will always have to examine these criteria, according to which we have examined the laws before 1946, with a new consciousness, such as simple regulations, which must, however, fit in with the complexity of the respective facts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15801	Mrs Mag. Frieser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15823	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The federal states have long carried out legal adjustment. I would remind you that in 1998, Styria decided to abolish all the national laws adopted before 1960. The same was true of Lower Austria and Upper Austria. I would like to say that this legalisation in the Federation is being carried out very late for me. I would have liked this to happen before. I think it would have been useful to make this legal adjustment even on the occasion of EU accession, such as Denmark, which has reduced its legal status by about a third. At the latest, we should have done this with the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam, because our wealth of laws was still overcrowded by the EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Jarolim said: Access to law is not only facilitated by the fact that we carry out a legal consolidation, but also by re-codification of major legislative instruments, such as the ASVG or the federal constitution or all the laws in the constitutional order. I would remind you that we were promised the re-codification of the ASVG as early as 1994 under the Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun. Mr. Tomandl was assigned to carry out this recodification. I have not yet heard – it has never been discussed – how far this work has been done. I think we can rightly ask when we can decide on the re-codification in this House. I would like to thank Professor Korinekxxok, Vice-President of the Constitutional Court. Through his recent comment on constitutional law, he has done a valuable work to redefine the Austrian Constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just quote Professor Korinek. I read here from an APA issue; Korinek in the Original: Do you know the Austrian Constitutional Law? – Asking the question is to deny it. With the comprehensive text collection you can now read what your oath is about when you are praised in high state functions. This is Karl Korinek's opinion. What Professor Korinek, I believe, is that if we put the oath here on our laws and on our constitution and the famous sentence "I vow!" say, in fact, don't know what we're making our vows on. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I come back to my favorite theme, the flood of law. If Mrs Karlsson calls on this House to produce better and more understandable laws, I can fully emphasize this, Mrs Colleague. But let me add: also fewer laws! In this sense, the ÖVP will be happy to give its approval to the Federal Law Clearing Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15864	Mr Krüger has also been mentioned on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15886	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I can immediately follow what my previous speaker said – by the way, I will allow myself to bring her the glasses that she has forgotten here as a sign of a gesture. But one, Mrs. Frieser, I don't understand: You complain here every year of the wild growth in the Constitution, you complain of the variety of laws, but you are involved in every law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to ask myself: They rightly complain – as Professor Korinek has said – that no one, not even a constitutional judge, knows what is now in the constitutional rank. For in many laws, provisions are lifted in the constitutional order in order to make them indisputable. But, Mrs Colleague, you agree with each of these laws, you agree with each of these constitutional laws. That's what I think – don't be angry! – an act of constituency to derive its political legitimacy from the mandate from being against the wild growth of the laws, being against the wild growth of the constitutional laws, but then nicely lifting the handel and always voting with it. So there's something wrong with your argument. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Frieser: I can't remember you once saying that we don't need that!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This First Federal Law Purification Act is a very important step towards simplification. As a legal user, I predict that this provision will be a very important one, because as a legal user, we know how many laws and regulations and even court decrees are still in force, which are relevant in practice. The first thing to examine here is that if one has an old law to do with it, one will take a look into this government template, into this federal law paper, whether it is still in force or not. I can add a very small criticism point: It would have been nice if one had made an annex here, which is listed, in particular, which provisions do not apply. – Of course not everyone, that’s not a question. But with this, the people who have used thousands of hours to deepen themselves into this matter – and we thank them – would certainly have been able to sell themselves even better to the public if one had known what provisions would come out of force or, in particular, would come into force.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15936	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15958	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of us Liberals, there will also be agreement to this First Federal Law Clearing Act, because we consider the approach, to say, all that is announced before 1946, simple law or regulation, will be put out of force, courageous. We think this is the right step. We will certainly not miss the rules. What has been said on the subject of the Constitution of Mrs Frieser must be supplemented, in my view, by the fact that a step, if we are serious about legalisation, would be the first step to continue this from the intention: All that is decided upon in new constitutional provisions will automatically be incorporated into the Federal Constitutional Act. This would mean that whenever one comes across a constitutional provision in the process of legislation, one must consider: How can this be included in the B-VG? This could gradually create a closed constitutional instrument. We would think that this is a sensible approach. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that, for example, the amendment to the Mineral Raw Materials Act, which is to be adopted this week and which has a constitutional provision to be put into effect retroactively, cannot go hand in hand with the conviction that is based on this First Federal Law Clearing Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15997	Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16018	Mr President. High house! Already in the Government Convention of 11. The aim of legal simplification and simplification is explicitly defined in March 1996. I think it is a very essential step in the right direction. It does not, of course, reach the end of this legalisation project. Because of our capacity in the Federal Chancellor's Office, we have currently examined only the area until 1946, and we have succeeded in cleaning up half of all the legislation in this area before 1946, i.e. from the standard stock, and there are only those laws in force that are set out in the annex to this First Federal Law Purification Act. This means that some 200 standards will immediately come into force and 50 standards, whose further validity is limited in time, will enter into force after a certain period of time. This means that the legal system was reduced by 50 percent before 1946, and I think that is a very apparent measure. Legal certainty and legal clarity are a trademark or a quality mark for an economic location. We will therefore take the next step in the next legislative period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16052	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Since we do not have the rapporteur's final word, we shall vote and I would therefore ask you to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2031 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is done in a single light. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would also like to give the draft law a third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done in a single light. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. 16. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16107	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. Only three speakers have been reported on this point. We therefore come back to a vote very soon. There was no oral reporting. We therefore come to the debate. First speaker is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16137	Mr President. – No one present on the government bank. Should be. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is interesting that suddenly resolutions of the National Council are also approved in EU matters; so far this has been the case. We have, I can remember, once tabled such a motion for a resolution, and it has been said that this is not because we are only applying for a file of enforcement under Article 52. 1 B-VG could be introduced here, but we take this as a prejudice also for the future that it is now possible. On the other hand, we have been considering for a very long time whether or not we should agree to this proposal. In the Committee we have still given our assent. However, two things have to be criticized when this request is discussed. On the one hand, the Federal Government has so far shown no willingness to engage accordingly in this matter. I am a member of the Federal Electoral Authority and at the last meeting of this authority I have put in a position to explain why it cannot be allowed to be counted in the future, after the constituency has been closed. We have received the information there that it is hopeless because, within the framework of the European Union, there is absolute resistance to such a census and that there will only be a reform on the opening times of the electoral venues. Secondly, on this charge increase. – This too would, in principle, be a debateable matter, for it is true that the members and trustees are already demanding hard seat meat, but also concentration. We believe that this is a very important task, and there should be one – there is a small one anyway – compensation. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially from Social Democracy: Before we agree to an increase, it would be interesting to hear from you whether you would like to start from the practice that the money that should actually be given to those trustees will be transferred directly to the party bank. I know that this practice is common in Vienna, and I say quite openly to you: For the confidants a corresponding teaching at all times, but not on this path an increase in party financing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16178	Mr Müller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16199	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The main aim of the Constitutional Committee's report is to improve the members of the Electoral Authorities. In recent years, numerous adjustments and changes have been made to the right to vote in order to enable or facilitate the participation of as many people as they want to go. However, more and more complaints are being raised about the problems of winning members for the electoral authority, i.e. co-chairsmen, substitutes and confidants. This should be due, on the one hand, to a decrease in the willingness to engage in this area. There is also a city-land gap here. In rural areas, the issue of compensation for the members of the Electoral Commissions is not crucial for participation in a democratic electoral process, but these problems in the urban central areas are likely to be reinforced. Mr Scheibner. For my community, I can say that there is no compensation for the electorate. It is also not wanted and desired by them, it is rejected. We have a responsibility to ensure that democratic electoral procedures are guaranteed in the future. Elections cost money, therefore, of course also need to consider how to guarantee an adequate fee for the staff in the constituencies. These considerations are, of course, to be included in the discussion with the countries and communities on a cost reduction. Experience in the last European elections has also shown that there is a need for reform. At the moment, we have to comply with the EU's requirements in the counting of votes. In concrete terms – and this was a much criticised and rightly highly criticised point at the last EU election – the vote counting can only begin if the last electoral venue is closed. The members of the Electoral Commission must wait either for several hours until they can start voting, or the opening hours of the Electoral Site will be postponed and moved to the late evening. This may lead to uncertainties in the population in subsequent elections. In my opinion, it is desirable to have as uniform voting times as possible within Austria. The proposed change in the legal system to ensure that the vote counting can be carried out before 10 a.m. in future in the case of EU elections in order to avoid hourly interruptions of the electoral authority would certainly lead to an improvement in this situation. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In general, I am very positive about measures aimed at facilitating the exercise of the right to vote and I would like to agree with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16251	Mr Donabauer has also been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16273	Mr President. High house! The present motion for a resolution deals with an improvement for the members of electoral authorities and trustees in national elections. It is a question of coordinating the opening hours of the electoral venues, especially in the EU election, as the current rules cause difficulties in evaluating them. In my opinion, the legislator has the task of ensuring the free access of the citizen to the exercise of his right to vote, the proper monitoring of the vote and the correct counting of votes. That requires bet! In recent years, however, we have more and more problems with the fact that few more volunteers are reporting for a election commission, because participation in an election commission has not been a matter of honor for a long time, as it has been for many years and decades. It is specifically about the fact that, first – and that has already been addressed – there is too little or too different compensation. We now want to start a discussion with this motion for a resolution in order to introduce nationally adjusted compensations and also to simplify the settlement of compensation as such. It is also true that a large number of cost factors must be listed horizontally and that list must then be presented within 60 days. The municipalities will then receive a part of their costs, but a maximum of one third. In my opinion, this cannot continue in this form. In this respect, there are already some concrete two proposals by the Ministry of the Interior, namely, a fixed-rate system and, on the one hand, a fixed-off system and, on the other hand, a fixed-off system for all the municipalities whose costs go beyond the fixed flat rate, a replacement of the costs if they can also prove the additional costs. That would be, I think, a way to really talk about. Secondly, As far as the electoral registers and their set-up are concerned, we have been trying in recent years to make sure that the electoral registers are inspected on weekends. It is, however, ever more common to note that the citizens are hardly making use of it. On the other hand, there are enormous costs for the municipalities. This does not mean, however, that we want to abolish this right of insight, but the possibility of understanding is to take place at a time that is also accepted and acceptable and does not impose an unnecessary time obligation on parish officials, although this possibility is not generally used, because the free weekend and leisure is also important for these citizens. The third point concerns the choice of letters. On the occasion of the 1992 National Council, we decided on a major innovation which made it easier for citizens, who have certainly become more generally mobile, to participate in the election. That was a first step. And the choice of letters must be our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have already presented several scientific discussions in this regard, lastly those of Professor Schäffer from 1979. The choice of letters is being used with great success in other countries, and we believe that we are in this area in particular. Finally, with this motion for a resolution, I think we are starting a debate which could end up in a parliamentary survey, where we could talk to representatives from other countries about their experience and learn from it in order to fully meet today's challenges by re-improvement of our laws. It would be an important task that we should face! I am glad that we are now opening this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16328	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote, and we are voting on the resolution on the Committee's report 2032 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this resolution to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. (E 203.) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1854 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the gambling law and the Federal Sports Promotion Act (2052 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on 14. Sport Report (III-173 of Supplements) 1997 by the Federal Chancellor (2042 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16389	I now call on points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We therefore come to the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner reported. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16417	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would like to say that we will agree with this government proposal, which concerns a change to the gambling law. The aim is to provide higher funding for sport, the lower limit for the years 2000 to 2002 in the range of 440 million schilling, with the upper limit increasing from 460 million to 500 million schilling in the years 2000 to 2002. But we agree with some abdominal pain. And I also honestly say why I agree with abdominal pain. They continue to pursue their party policy in the field of sport, just as they have been used to in Austria for 55 years. We have experienced this in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, we have just experienced this in the ÖIAG with the ordering of strings and ditz, and we also experience this in sport, of course, because you are not willing to design the use of sports promotions differently, that is, in time, by assigning them via the Bundessportsorganisation to the professional associations wherever they belong. As a result of the party policy you have pursued But she's: Of course, we want the roof associations to have interconnected, because we want to decide where the money is going through the roof associations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are the ASKÖ, the ASVÖ and the Union. – Separation Once you've got these things! As long as you do not separate yourself from these things, there will always be the unapproachable side-effect that sports promotions are basically involved in party politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can see in the series "Portraits" in the programme "Hohes Haus" for example Mr. "Noldi" Grabner, to which a sports officer comes, who gives him a check of 5 000 S or 10,000 S – and thank you very much, that's it! [[Abg. Grabner: But not by sport!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: But not from sport!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: (in the direction of Abg. Grabner) Do you take it out of your own pocket? Admit it!]] [[Abg. Grabner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Ofner, don't!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Eh not, but neither do you! I don't even claim that, and the Franzi Löschnak isn't!]] Steering You finally get these things into the right channels! If you finally stop party politics, stop with the party's propaganda, you will also receive our full consent. However, as long as you maintain this distribution system, we will only give the consent in the sense of sport. [[Abg. Head: This is a contradiction!]] The second point is that the government template really contains a so-called employment policy accent! Mr Kopf, do you know what we are talking about? Do you know how high the amount is? – If I take the evaluation from one year to another, then the 20 million schilling is, of which I take half, 50 percent, which makes 10 million schilling. [[Abg. Header: Wrongly Read!]] No, not read incorrectly! This is an amount of 10 million schilling. With 10 million schilling, you are taking employment policy measures! [[Abg. Head: That's not true! That's just a part of the associations! You didn't read right!]] Don't be so small-cared! With 10 million schillings, you can't move anything at all! Give this to sport directly, and do not influence it with measures that will allow you to politically re-allocate any posts, because these are not employment policy measures! Support the sport as it belongs, and let the party policy out!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16567	Mr Grabner has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16620	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The sports report is available today. I would like to say a few words on this item on the agenda. The recognition of sport is - I can say - given in all political groups. In the past, once a legislative period has expired, the sports report has not been treated. I would like to thank everyone for their point of view, because every group has now been involved in sport. I would also like to say thank you for today's decision to promote up to 500 million schilling for sport, especially the BSO President Dr. Lösnak, Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate, Secretary of State Dr. Wittmann and Minister of Finance Edlinger as well as the Coalition Partner. Because joint action is, I believe, very important for sport. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking back on the 1997 sport year, Austria can draw a successful balance sheet. This year, Austrian athletes have once again achieved excellent results in European and World Championships and other high-ranking international events. [[Abg. May. Main: Also at the Special Olympics!]] That is why I would like to stress that top-level sport needs special attention in its international impact on our country of Austria, but also in its role as a model, especially for the youth of our country. The top athletes in Austria are the best ambassadors for our country – whether Steffi Graf, the sailors, the skiers, whether it is Vera Lischka or Uschi Profanter, they are all genuine ambassadors of our country. I think we can see from the liberals that many do not want to perceive the reality of sports. In the performance sport in January 1997 at a conference of Austrian top sports... – Mr. Ofner is very rarely present, but when he is there, he always speaks in between, he should get the yellow card. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Steffi Graf is being acquired!]] [[The speaker holds a yellow card.]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Head.]] [[Call to the liberals: The reproach is already old!]] - But he still works with you. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Do you have a red one?]] Mr. Col., you get the red one! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very important that the Austrian Top Sports Committee has drawn up new directives for sport, for top-level sport. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In an intensive discussion, the following points were filtered out – which are uninteresting for the liberals, for otherwise they would not always call in –: The main goal is the Sydney Olympic Games. Therefore, our top athletes will fly with doctors to Sydney in September of this year to carry out evaluations for the Olympic Games of the next year. I think this is very important for our top athletes. Further: Where are there possible successful athletes? – These too are already to be promoted. What are the objectives of the respective association? – Ladies and gentlemen! In February 1997, the Annual General Meeting of the Austrian Olympic Committee took place with the new election of the Executive Board. President Dr. Wallner was confirmed in his office and was also elected to the International Olympic Committee in Seoul. 1997 was a typical post-Olympic year, analyses, discussions, and strategic plans derived from them were the focusses of the Institute for Medical and Sports Scientific Advice. Finally, based on the experiences of the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, it was necessary to plan the new Olympic cycle to prepare for Sydney 2000. [[Interlocutors Dr. Krüger and Fischl.]] By means of training and competition support as well as sports scholarships, 39 students who had to appear on the A-frame of a sport were supported by a total of 230 000 S to reduce the cost of the performance athletes, such as the cost of food, travel and so on. The focus was on the following sports: athletics, ice skating, fighting, badminton, rowing, handball, dancing. – I believe that all of this is very important for the young athletes. 41 state awards were awarded in 1997. I therefore believe that in the new period we have to consider whether or not to introduce a sport mark of our own. 90 European and World Championships have been awarded to Austrians, and many athletes have done a lot for our country. Also the performance models of South Town, where the distribution of the German sports homes, I think, has been very successful, are very important, as are the army sports and nearby combat school. Also the Austrian sports aid I would like to say a thank you, our friend Hubert Neuper as well as Mag. Andi Schwab. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say thank you to all those who have contributed to the fact that this sports report has been designed so well, to the officials, thank you very much to all professional associations and umbrella associations. I believe that Austria's sport with the Bundessportsorganisation with President Löschnak and Zeh, with the Olympic Committee under Wallner and Jungwirth, with which sports aid with Neuper and much more is ordered, and I hope that we will also be able to report on success on the occasion of the next sports report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16716	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. May. Main: (in the direction of Abg. Grabner) Once at least you could mention the rowers, you've never mentioned them!]] [[Abg. Grabner: (in the direction of Abg. May. But you could go out and say it right away, you or the Ofer!]] [[Ongoing calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Gentlemen! It is possible to speak here at the Bureau! Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16781	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! As Mr Grabner spoke of the Olympic Committee, I would like to express once again my regret that this unique social and economic opportunity was rejected by the Carinthians in the association with Friuli and Slovenia. This is much more than an economic or a touristic... Good! [[Abg. Gaugg: You have to do this to the samarranch!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Because it booted Salzburg!]] I said that because it was my concern. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Unfortunately, a real game of mourning was the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee. Unfortunately, he was a mourning game. We have discussed a competent sports report there, but it has been postponed. Mr Kopf has decided that the applications for the opposition, which were submitted and also dealt with there, will be postponed. In the end, I think this is a parliamentary mourning game! It would have been really good to talk about the privatisation of the Bundessportheime and to make decisions on this. Unfortunately, this was not possible because it was postponed once again. That is to say, these applications are simply and decisively given to oblivion. I think it's bad! Among them was the request concerning mountain bikers. You know that our "communist" Neighbor Bavaria has been able to mountain biking on the forest roads for a long time, only in Austria this is obviously not possible. Even the so "communist" South Tyrol, the "communist" Switzerland and the former Communist Slovenia, all these neighbouring countries have expropriated their forest owners so that they can cycle on the forest roads there. We may be able to achieve a breakthrough on this issue in the next legislative period. The sports report we are discussing is correct. The structures of Austrian sport, on the other hand, are a disaster. We have already debated this for the last time. There is a federal sports organisation, three umbrella associations, 45 trade associations, thousands of sports clubs at four different levels and 79 national regulations. This is a classic structure, as it can only be, because it has grown and no one finds himself who has the courage to bring Mr. State Secretary, into such a sports organization once order, to make it slimmer and thus to spend more money on athletes, trainers and voluntary associations than on bureaucracy. I already know what Article 15 of the Federal Constitution says, and I already know that sport is national. Nevertheless, it can be a task in negotiations – not in the Dictat – to find out how we can unite these regulations. For the reorganisation of sport in an information society where communication is easily possible, there could be intranets through which it could be easier to manage and through which member management and information could also run, only more two levels are needed. In fact, only the level of the Bundes-Sportorganisation as the Bundesdachverband and on the other hand the level of the professional associations and the private sports clubs need more. The many sports clubs take care of broadband, and the professional associations at the same level are responsible for performance sports. More money for sports, less money for structures would be nice. It could be if you wanted to, but obviously there are too many officials who feel very comfortable in these four levels and many associations. Trattner said the essential thing about the relationship with party politics earlier. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Fischl.]] The funding by the Federal Sports Promotion Act and the modification of the gambling law are in order, but only so far, until Article 2. I think this article 2 is quite simply annoyed. We will ask for a separate vote and accept Rule 1, but we will reject Rule 2. Because there are two things to be noted here. First: In turn, I think that if money is to be settled in one of these four levels, namely, of course at the party political level, it is wrong. Mr. Löschnak, have your argument with the 2 000 S per sports club You didn't take them seriously yourself! You just threw that in. Secondly, I think it is, above all, just a chuzpe, if you already increase the promotion of sports, to prescribe to the clubs that get the promotion of sports, then again how they have to take advantage of it. You have to spend 50 percent on new employees. Then someone will have to control it again. These are evil things that are senseless. If you're promoting someone, he's got a clear job. As he fulfils this task, he must be the cause of the associations that receive the support. So I do not think that the target orientation towards umbrella associations is right, because I think that the sports structures, as they exist today, are wrong, and not this additional provision that half of them have to be spent on creating new jobs. This is simply an angry placebo and nothing else, because just everywhere "jobs" have to stand. [[Abg. Böhacker: Yes, yes! That's it!]] Mr Grollitsch, together with Mr Grabner and Mr Kopf, will put forward a motion for a resolution to which I will then give my assent in terms of content, because I believe it is important to maintain exercise as a measure of health care. I also believe that it is good to promote and put in the foreground the sporty movement in schools. But above all, I think that there should also be the possibility at the universities to practice voluntary sports, and I do not believe that voluntary sports – about which Grollitsch and I have already spoken – can be ordered by law, but that there should simply be a part of the assignment to the universities that voluntary sporting events are offered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16861	The honourable Member's head is also mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16882	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter! As far as the structure of sports is concerned, you are right in that if you had to go here today or could or would be able to reorganise sports in Austria – this has very little to do with will from above: I am very proud that we have a free organized sport in Austria, which organizes itself and also chooses its own structures; this is an essential feature of our sport – perhaps there would be a different structure. [[Abg. Fischl: Wille!]] It may be. However, as far as the financing of sport is concerned, the problem of the lack of funds is not about the three umbrella organisations, but most of the funds are missing from my point of view among professional associations where the primary task is mainly at the federal and national level, namely the promotion of performance-oriented sports. In the widest range, that is, for the small associations devoted to basic work, very much is done through the umbrella organisations, very much in promoting and providing infrastructure, financial resources and so on. But above all the professional associations lack the money needed to shape their structures in such a way that they can actually be efficient and effective. Mr Grabner has already mentioned that, although there is a second funding track with the general promotion of sports, in which the top sports committee is also financially located, this is, in fact, a project support for additional projects, for example in the direction of Olympia. However, what the professional associations lack at first is at all the basic funding to have reasonable structures, to be equipped with appropriate trainers and so on. I would therefore not be unloving – or better, it is even a call for it to be raised – that we are going beyond this 500 million schilling, which we are now likely to receive for sport by 2002, in the foreseeable future, Mr State Secretary, to make a effort to increase the funding once more, and then to direct it primarily towards the professional associations so that they can do the appropriate work with appropriate trainers, equipped with appropriate structure. This proposal, of course, welcomes our support, although I first saw a small advertising drop in the original government template that it would not have been so easy to ensure, through this 3 percent commitment to the sales of lotteries, that we can actually achieve this 500 million schilling, which we really need for organized sports in Austria, in 2002. [[Abg. Fischl: In 2002 there is no OFFB at all! He's already gone!]] I say that, apart from the efforts of all of us, it is probably my merit that an intervention by the Federal Chancellor and your efforts, Mr Lösnak, and certainly your, Noldi Grabner, with the Minister of Finance, have led to the fact that this percentage could now be increased from 3 to 3.5 per cent in the Committee, because it is very likely that these 460, 480 and then 500 million will be reached in these three years. You can actually assume that. I would have preferred fixed amounts – I say so – and not this detour via the connection to the lottery sales. I think it's unnecessary. However, the goal in itself – and this objective seems to be achieved – is important that we can reach 500 million schilling in three years in a relatively short time of 400 million schilling two years ago. [[Abg. Böhacker: 420 it was!]] [[Abg. Fischl: That was the whole goal?]] This is an important step that we have achieved. [[Abg. Fischl: Thank you!]] I've already done it before – if you'd been listening to me, dear Harry Fischl, then you'd have heard it – that I'm not satisfied with it, but I've made a second request towards the professional associations, and I'm not going to abandon this claim either. I am convinced that during the next legislative period with all those who love sport, it will be possible to reach this second stage. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16971	Mr Grollitsch has now been reported to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16992	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Sports is one of the few consensus criteria in many areas. So we, five parties in common, have been supporting the Olympic application of Carinthia some time ago. I would like to thank the political groups for agreeing to this initiative. The fact that it did not lead to success has nothing to do with the initiative itself. Thank you! I would also like to thank the government parties for supporting a motion for a resolution that I have staged in connection with the sports report. This has nothing to do with our being in favour of this gambling law, which we agree with in the first part. Its content, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the law that sport is, as it were, a lucky thing: If the gambling works, the sport may also work in the next few years. – Is that really the appropriate basis? Are we all satisfied that as many jackpots as possible ensure the basis for the sporty doing of our youth? Can it really be? Mr Kopf is already concerned that in 2002 the amount provided for by the law in the third stage will not be reached. [[Abg. Head: Not now!]] I share his concern. [[Abg. Head: Not now!]] Your colleague's head! You know as well as I do that private competition providers will in future be cleaning up in this sector. It is to be feared that gambling in the form in which it now promotes sports may not be able to expand in the way we have been used to in recent years. In principle, however, it should be said: We liberals believe that sport should not be based on a game of gambling. Therefore, in this motion for a resolution, which is now being tabled, we have jointly provided a basis for the sport of the future, to which the job, health and social sector would also have to make its contribution. ==References== In September 1997, the National Council, with a five-party resolution request, unanimously invited the Federal Government to promote the concerns of sport within the framework of all the departments. The following application shall therefore be submitted in the continuation, extension and clarification of these efforts: [[Quoted print version removed]] The last wish in this motion for a resolution was that the Greens, unfortunately, could not go along with this motion. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Haidlmayr!]] Mrs. Haidlmayr will explain why not. It has meant that it is a naughty thing to do with the wording "to further improve the position of the disabled sport". Mrs. Haidlmayr! I have been active in worship sports intensively for 30 years and now on the verge. I do not think you represent the interests of worshipful sports if you separate yourself from this formulation. We will be happy to listen to your comments. I am grateful for the fact that we have also reached a consensus in the sport sector, although the principles of freedom of movement can be difficult to reconcile with those of the other parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17098	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17119	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grollitsch has just referred to why I do not agree with this motion for a resolution. – I can tell you, Mr Grollitsch: Three or four hours ago, we discussed equality between the disabled and non-discrimination. If we are talking about sport, you must also be prepared to treat the sport of disabled people as equivalent to non-inhibited sports, not just to write a phrase in to try to promote it. These times are over! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Oellinger and Mr Magistrate on his report. Barmüller.]] It is about non-discrimination, and if you stand by it, then that is true at all levels, including in the sports sector! I'd like to say something else: Your motion for a resolution must not mean that everyone, whether they want it or not, has to do sports. That's not the way it should be! For in schools it is often so that especially children who are not so much-talented – they have just been given the certificates again – get a "four" in turns. This should not be so far as it is, but you must very well leave every child the freedom to decide whether to participate in sports lessons or not. Look at how the sport is stored! [[Abg. Head: As a movement education and as a health care!]] Actually, a child, just because it wants to play sports and maybe play in a club or do his sport there, is automatically involved in a party. It can't be! You must finally be prepared to separate sport from party politics! Sports has nothing to do with party politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As long as you are not ready to do so, you cannot hope that we Greens will support your sports policy and thus your party policy. We don't. However, I would like to say a few things about the sports report. I already notice a lot. If you look at the layout on the first pages as the sport is regulated, you can figure out how many functional levels there are. [[Abg. Head: These are volunteers! They're volunteers!]] Of course, then, for the individual sportsman, it is pretty slow to leave, because most of the costs are simply lost to some of the officials – who are not all volunteering, I would like to say – and therefore the funds have already been used up. It is already slow to note that – and you will not challenge me – if today sports events are taking place abroad, you have to see if there are no more officials present as athletes, because many officials have already somehow split up in their planning to spend their holidays where the sporting event happens. They are then visible at the beginning at the opening, then they make a ten-day holiday, and at the end of the event they are there again. – That’s how it can, please, not go! This wild growth that sports officials often finance their holidays at the expense of the sports budget cannot make sense of it! If you would be willing to create clarity here once, you would wonder how much money is actually left for the sports and for the individual sportsman! However, there is no interest in this. Mr State Secretary! It is always very nice when the sports lecture takes place twice a year, either in the Federal Chancellery or, as last time, in the redout halls. However, they have never been tempted to invite even mentally disabled athletes – it has been mentioned today how many medals they have acquired for Austria – to these events or to let them participate in them. Only the wheelchair or body-reduced athletes are invited, but nobody else. Change a piece Your picture and let all the athletes who come in honor also take part in these big events, instead of just pick them up from the airport! That is clearly not enough! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Oellinger and Mr Magistrate on his report. Barmüller.]] If you look at the list of priorities that has now been drawn up for the sports venues, you can see that among the 13 defined points of the priority list for the federal sports facilities – the 14th. Point is "Other" – only in the eleventh place "Training courses of disabled sport within the scope of the possibilities existing in the disabled sport facility". That's where it all ends! Mr State Secretary, have you forgotten that, in accordance with the constitutional provisions of Article 7 B-VG, you are obliged to make all sports venues disabled? Not only has this to be done "in the context of existing possibilities", but the sports venues must be accessible to everyone! There's a great need for action! With the "possibility" you will no longer be able to move on to disabled people. These times we have thank God behind us! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] As long as there is no decent sports policy, no party-independent sports policy, we can never agree to a sports report!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17201	The motion for a resolution, which has been properly tabled by Mr Grollitsch before, is under negotiation. Mr Fischl is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17226	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately you are very few in this hall! If you look at this sports report – and I have had the opportunity to comment on the sports report several times in the past – you always come to the same conclusion: Paper, ladies and gentlemen, is patient! Thank God, I say, as a former longtime official of a top club in Austria, but not only is the paper patient, but also the officials, amateur athletes and athletes in our country – athletes of about 12,500 sports clubs – are very patient: patient especially in dealing with politicians and their promises. Mr State Secretary! Today, in connection with this 'Euroteam' story, we have already heard very clearly and sufficient that we very much regret that the chancellor is not present. As a member of the sports subcommittee of my group, I very much regret this, because I would very much like to say something to him personally, but please tell him: Let him be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Fuchs: That's what he'll have to say about you!]] The Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria is said to be ashamed because on every occasion he is publicly delegating when it comes to laughing out of the television in sport. [[Abg. Fox: Think a little bit!]] He should be ashamed because he should bear in mind that about 20 percent of the culture is promoted, but at best only 20 % of the cultural funding budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I ask you to inform him that he should be ashamed because, to date, there is no federal legislation in our country, for example, in the field of sports laws, an area that is very important to us, as has been shown in the past. One can only think here of the example of Mr Stronach, who, with his method of buying up in Austrian sport, especially in football, has triggered an almost perfect chaos. Ladies and gentlemen! We still do not know today whether the competition of the Austrian football league in the context of the international competition will not be competitive, whether we may not have to expect a penalty, for example, because Mr Stronach has acquired several players or even rights in several clubs. High house! I think the root of this evil is in fact your permanent announcement policy. Mr State Secretary! I would also ask you to judge to the Chancellor that he should be ashamed because, in fact, we do not have an adequate right of association today. For more than 50 years, this right of association is old, and it does not at all take into account the modern intentions, the needs of sports, especially with regard to the separation between amateur sports and professional sports. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 150 years! It has existed since 1852!]] Thank you, Professor, for correcting me. I would like to accept this, because this is even more important, in which old-fashioned, backward and antiquiet sports are treated in our country. Not least because... – Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a very good law!]] If you want to stand up for de-bureaucratisation, I ask you not to strengthen the Committee on Petitions in the future, but to commit yourself to going to Minister Michalek, and do not undermine, for populist reasons, a right of association that we may finally have, which corresponds to the modern intentions and needs of athletes! [[Abg. Head: That was not enough for it!]] Faith You're telling me: I know what I'm talking about! I've suffered long enough. High house! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then start your football club as Ges.m.b.H. or as AG!]] I would like to add a few more points to the comments made by my colleague, Mr Khol, because he would like to make a loud statement here. Mr. Kopf! You're going down here and you're primarily talking about one, that is, money. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is private money! It's private! Out of idealism!]] You're talking about money and two-stage plans: The first stage is about 400 million schilling, and the second stage is about more money. It's actually embarrassing for a member of the sports sector to hear from his mouth only: Money, money, money! Mr Kopf – and this is also true of Mr Wittmann State Secretary: [[Abg. Head: We are debating a concrete request!]] To produce white papers, white papers, which ultimately include a lot of white indifference – completely non-reality – and to be proud that these white papers may be a recognition of the century, that will be insufficient! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Especially about culture!]] [[Abg. Müller: Have your speech!]] I conclude, Mr. Kopf, with a quote from a striking report of the "standard" with the title "Many old words and numbers". As a rule, the "standard" refers to the fact that the ÖVP has organised a survey for the financing of Austrian sport, and the conclusion for the editor of the "standard" was – I quote – that: "No idea, no concrete statement on the requirements of today's time, the now well-known phrases on the dynamics that Frank Stronach has triggered with his Sport-Bet-Channel." - Quote. High house! This is the state of sports policy in our country! [[Abg. Fox: He doesn't know what he's talking about!]] In view of the fact that some 3.5 million people in Austria are active in sports, it should be borne in mind that these people also have a legitimate right to organized structures and a legitimate right to be treated in the same way as they are citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not enough for us to treat sports here in Parliament as a side-by-side issue. I think you will have the opportunity, during the next legislative period, to show how seriously you take it with your responsibility in this matter, just as in the Committee on Petitions, Mrs Fuchs, where nothing goes, and also in the Sports Committee, where the chairman of the Committee has the ridiculousness to present yellow and red cards and no longer comes out of his thanks. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Fox]] [[Abg. Grabner: You took them out again because you have no idea! He has no idea!]] This kind of responsibility, Mrs Fuchs and Mr Grabner, will not be enough for us. We're going to put ourselves on our back feet! You will notice this in the next legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17433	Mr Löschnak has now been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17454	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to address Mr Fischl's remarks with a word, because just as he represents the state of Austrian sport here, it would be believed that the three million sportsmen and the 12 000 sports clubs we have will only be hindered in the exercise of sports and in the management of the clubs, which simply does not correspond to the facts. Mr Fischl, you should talk to athletes outside the GAK! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make two more preliminary remarks. First: The funds from the gambling law are the basic subsidy for Austrian sport and therefore very valuable for sports practice. - That's one. The second comment concerns the presentation of the sports staff you, Mrs Haidlmayr, have given in the debate and cannot be contradicted. They are acting as if the means of special sports promotion would be used up primarily by the sports staff! That's not true, on the contrary: The 12 000 sports clubs can only exist by bringing in thousands and thousands of sports officials volunteering, whose value is a multiple of what Austrian sport receives as a basic subsidy. There are estimates that the voluntary services of the sports staff are to be assessed with an amount of approximately three to four billion schilling per year. These are the facts, and I ask you to keep this in mind in future discussions so that you can make a real assessment here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The sport welcomes the novels to the discussion, for many reasons: First: It is guaranteed the basic subsidy for another three years. This is important for sports. Secondly, The basic subsidy will rise to 500 million schilling by the last 440 million shillings we receive this year in three stages – Mr. Kopf has already said that – until 2002. Now, of course, you can claim that the sports officials are only talking about money, but money is now an important thing, and without this basic subsidy, there would be no sport. [[Abg. Böhacker: Without money kansi!]] After all, there is an increase to 500 million schilling, which is really a valuable measure. From my point of view, the labour market component is also an important part of this new regulation, because – and here one has to look more closely at the legislative text – the umbrella organisations and the public authorities are obliged to put 50 percent of the growth into labour market policy measures. So what's going to happen? – We can use the 10 million per year for a number of professional associations To provide additional information, either 25 trainers or 30 or 35 trainers or 30 or 40 trainers. If you believe that this is "nothing", then you really do not know the state of Austrian sport! This is a good thing for Austrian sport, and that is why we welcome the fact that this new regulation is being introduced! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What else would have happened to these 10 million?]] Shall I tell you something? I can answer that relatively simply. I'll charge you a little bit. If 10 million had been divided into 12 500 sports clubs, you can calculate what each sports club would have received per year, namely an amount in the order of about 1 000 S. That is why it is better to put in place a concentrated measure here, and the PDO is in favour of this measure! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the criticism that has been made: Of course you can say: 500 million as a stage are not enough, we would like 600 million, 800 million or one billion. – That’s quite understandable! But you need a second part, that part that pays for it! That is why we are glad that we have now won this stage victory. A second comment on the critics concerning the redistribution of funds: It is precisely this labour market component that is an approach to the redistribution of resources, and therefore I can say in summary to my group – Grabner has already done this in the introductory part – that: These novels are a good solution for Austrian sport, and they also include approaches to structural changes. Mr State Secretary! The Austrian sport is thanking you, and I ask you to pass this on to the Minister of Finance and to the Federal Chancellor! This is a decisive step, and we hope for further steps in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17527	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Praxmarer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17548	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mrs Haidlmayr is no longer in the hall, but I am moved to reply, and perhaps she will listen anyway. It can't be serious to her if she says it's a naughtiness if a child gets enough in the exercise of the body! – Dear ladies and gentlemen! You may not know how insidiously the damage to attitude is increasing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Every year, the health status of our schoolchildren is worse. They don't move anymore, they're getting thicker, they're incompetent, especially children from the urban area. [[Abg. Oillingers: You have to motivate them!]] I'm a Turn Professor and I know what I'm talking about! We gymnasts and gymnasts probably have the training that we can judge the children! [[Abg. Oillingers: You should not judge the children, but motivate them!]] Body exercises are a duty like any other, and in this subject can, and must be forced to act physically. As a gymnast, we have the task of motivating the children in such a way that they enjoy sports later in life, which ultimately benefits their health. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why you can't just say: There must be no "four" in Turnen! Because if a fat, unskilled child strives, it will certainly not get enough. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's exactly the problem!]] But if, for example, a skilled student is supposed to have the rule every week and always wants to push herself, why shouldn't she get enough in gymnastics? Turning is at least as important as many other duties! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17622	Mr Dr Höchtl has now been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17644	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, I would like to address a number of points which have been tailored and which I believe are quite controversial. First of all, I would like to refer to Mrs Haidlmayr's comments: After following several reports in the media, I was able to see that the issue of lack of movement in connection with all the difficulties and health damage that occurred in the early years of the years in the case of the thousands of children in the world. In view of this situation, the argument that the children should stay away from the teaching in physical exercises would be the opposite of what I consider to be a necessity. That's why I'm saying: We will undoubtedly take action to ensure that the subject of physical exercises will not only remain a matter of duty in the future, but will find the most modern form of expression, so that young people will be brought to life for all their lives. This is an essential condition for staying healthy in old age. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He's right!]] For the second. In connection with the fact that it is sometimes mentioned that the volunteer officials are making vacations, I do not want to go into the well-founded figures of Mr Lösnak, but only to note that the people who work in one of these 12 500 clubs, each of which requires five to ten volunteer officials, not only make huge amounts of their valuable leisure available to others, but also invest a considerable quantity of money in order to enable dozens of others to pursue a sporting activity. That's why I'm saying: All of this is an expression of a committed society. Mr. Khol called her "committed civil society". We should all be grateful for this commitment and say to these people on the occasion of such a debate: Just go on this way, for you are the ones who live the foremost. We can't have enough of such people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third element: One can of course argue about the existing structures of the trade associations and umbrella associations of these 12 500 associations. However, I do not think we should question one aspect, namely the expression of the freedom of sport, the expression of the autonomy of the individual units. What we don't want under any circumstances is a national sport or a bureaucratic sport, because then many thousands of people don't want to volunteer for it. That is why we are extremely skeptical about reforming association law. We want a right of association, which guarantees the individual associations as much as possible freedom, independence and independence. That is what we stand for, and that is an expression of our conviction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth and last points: We have been discussing the basic foundation, namely the financial support from the field of lotto-too funds, for a few months now. We did this 440 million schilling in 1999, and then no further basis would have been given. Even within the discussion, we have increased this 3 percent of sales base by a common request to 3.5 percent, because we know what difficulties may arise from various other providers in the sports field. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we decide to do so together, then for the year 2000, for the year 2001 and for the year 2002, some security for Austrian sport, on which Austrian sport can continue to build, with the help of sponsors, with corresponding further contributions and many actions that can contribute much more to private money. That is why, out of full conviction, we say yes to this novel and hope that sport will contribute significantly to the joy and health of the Austrians as a result of this foundation too in the next few years!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17697	Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17719	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say that, if this law is adopted today, we will have succeeded in increasing the special means of sport by 100 million schilling, while my responsibility in the field of sports will be increased. I think that's a success for sports! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will increase this sum in stages from 400 to 500 million schilling. Member's head! As you know – and I am right there on the question of the promotion of the association – the distribution key has been chosen in such a way that the professional associations also have a very significant share from the financing of these special sports promotions. This proportion, according to the 1997 report, is 84 million schilling for professional associations with a calculation basis of 400 million schilling. If we increase to 500 million schillings, according to the distribution key there is also a 23 per cent increase for professional associations, and I believe that this is a very significant amount for professional associations. In times with very low inflation rates, to obtain a 23 percent increase means a real increase of insignificant levels for professional associations. On the problems of the organisation of sport, I would like to point out that it is necessary to use existing structures and to make the best possible use of the resources. For example, 10 million schillings, which have to be put into work-related youth projects, cannot be divided into the associations. For with 12,000 clubs, about 1,000 s would be lost to each club, and that would not help. It will, however, be very helpful if, through the umbrella organisations, there is the opportunity to do something about young people's promotion in club pools. Because then the best trainers can be employed, and for club pools there can be a regional and also sectoral summary. I can now use this instrument of organisation by this requirement. If we continue in this approach, we can achieve that we can, on the one hand, train and integrate the existing trainers and on the other hand provide these highly trained trainers to young people, assuming that young people have not received such professional support as they should receive in order to remain on the one hand on the other, on the other hand, but on the other hand to be trained for top-level sports. That is to say, it is a structural measure which will provide young people with an organization with which pools can be created to ensure excellent training, because it is impossible to pay each club a youth trainer. Secondly, I would like to say that the destruction of the umbrella organisations which you are calling for over and over again would mean that the organization of voluntary staff would no longer work. These voluntary employees, who are involved in an organisational process, would partly flee, and if the state would have to jump in and pay for these benefits, which are now voluntary, then the sports budget would be exhausted very soon or no longer suitable to maintain this service. I would like to say once again: I asked you last year: Show me your structure! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl.]] You have, however, remained guilty to me to this day concerning your structure. So far, I have not been able to have any useful discussion about what your alternative model would look like, but you always put the same demand, namely: Let's destroy the old structure! [[Abg. Fischl: Where sports are made, the structure begins!]] If we did, we would have smashed the old ones, but had nothing new, and I do not think that this would be useful. Although this argument is very good at the beginning, it is also very well received by the media, such a procedure would not serve sport! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To honourable Member Peter I would like to say: Of course, the 79 national regulations represent a wild growth that is not desirable. However, according to our federal constitution, it is once again the case that sport is state-owned, and there are countries that regulate it more precisely, and there are countries that are less precise about it. But in the end we are on the ground of the Constitution. We operate sports policy as implementing bodies, and it is up to the legislator to bring about a constitutional change. However, I believe that this problem should be seen in connection with an overarching state reform. It would offer – and has already been called upon here several times – to discuss a certain combination of the structures at the federal level. But that's, as I said, the lawgiver's case. As an implementing body, I must move within the framework of current legislation and try to regulate those points that are more regional and of federal significance by means of my possibilities. In order to privatise the German sports homes, I would like to say that we have followed a clear line. We use private-law forms of organization. ==References== January 1999 the Bundessportheime are organized in the form of a GmbH, and this proves very well. However, we do not want to privatise for two reasons: We want a breakdown and application of private-law forms of organisation, but not the withdrawal of the state. And we do not want to sell these federal sports homes, because we do not need additional hotel capacities, but homes that are available to sport as cheaply as possible. In addition, we need a more efficient use of costs, which is certainly guaranteed with the GmbH solution. That means: On the one hand, we do not want to create competition with the existing tourism companies, but rather to serve sport, and on the other hand to achieve better cost transparency and cost efficiency. Thirdly, with these federal sports home distributions we have managed to achieve a subject-related support in the sports sector. The sports associations which are now present in the Federal Sports Homes receive support for this stay, so that the tariff does not correspond to the standard tariff which is required there, but is suspended by a subsidy. This subsidy of the federal government for the stay, however, only benefits the sports club directly or the top sportsman. This means that it ceases to be the promotion of those who are not committed to sports but who still stay in the federal sports homes. The promotion is only more subject-related. Mr Grollitsch's comment on the motion for a resolution tabled can only be welcomed by the Federal Government. With regard to the question of anchoring sport at European level raised by it, I should like to ask the Austrian Presidency in 1998 for Austria to be able to find out that the conclusions of Vienna on sport have been given a mandate to the European Commission to identify, until the Amsterdam Summit, how sport could be integrated into the European regulatory system. That is to say, this is based on an initiative by Austria or on an initiative by our Federal Chancellor at the Vienna Summit. I am somewhat surprised by Mrs Haidlmayr's comments. For I must say that, of course, we attach importance to the fact that every new sports equipment, which co-finances the public sector, is also accessible to people with disabilities. We have also invested more than 30 million Schilling in the old sports facilities to make them more accessible. Of course, this is not perfect yet, but I believe that we must continue this way. I would, however, like to say that nothing is happening and reject it very firmly, because that is not true! I believe that we place great importance on the sport of disabled people. We have set up a Paralympic Committee that finances the provision of paralympics. We are investing 4.8 million schilling in disability sports, and we also attach great importance to the fact that the disabled athletes are awarded with the other athletes, and that is what happens. I would also like to take up the suggestion that the mental disabled athletes should also be invited. There's a lot to be said about that. In any event, I believe that this sports report is essentially comprehensive. We will have to work on these structures or these specifications so that we can continue to produce Austrian athletes of high quality, because these are ultimately our ambassadors all over the world!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17772	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. The next speaker is Mrs Fuchs. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17797	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to say a few words about the chapter 'Women in Sport', because I was very pleased to note that this chapter has been incorporated into the sports report again. It is also very gratifying that the "Women in Sport" platform, which is intended to improve the situation of the women concerned, has experienced such a strong commitment and a medial echo. Despite these positive development approaches, it is nevertheless necessary to address the related problems on a continuous and public basis. Ladies and gentlemen! As in other countries, women have more sport in Austria than men. Nevertheless, few women are found in the top positions in sport. In view of this, the question arises: Are women too little engaged, or are they the structures inside and outside of the sport that lead to this low presence of women? [[Abg. Böhacker: Both will vote!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think the causes of this are very diverse, we cannot simply classify it. This begins with the low media presence of sportsmen or women, and goes through lower funding in performance sports for girls and women, and a significant distribution of women in the leadership levels of sports organisations, up to scratching differences in prize money in professional sports. So I think the palette is quite wide! [[Abg. Böhacker: When tennis and skiing, it's not like that anymore!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl.]] - Oh, yes! But you are very badly informed, Mr Fischl. That's a good example! That's where the barge between the prizes, the women, and those who get the men, goes very far apart! Sports journalism, which is still a men's domain, also plays a major role in this context. Women came into the media only more often when male competition was missing, i.e. in other sports or when they corresponded to the common female cliché. In recent times, however, we have been able to observe a positive trend, as I would like to say. [[Abg. Böhacker: Women's football World Cup!]] That's what I meant! The typical men's sports, such as football or American football, have become increasingly prominent with women's teams. In recent times, very great achievements of women have been noted. I can now also say, as Vienna's ASKÖ President, that we have taken account of this situation and set up a women's unit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Yeah, I'm in ASKÖ, you know that! I notice that it brings fruit very slowly, that you occasionally listen! As a Member of Parliament, I think it is urgently necessary to pay more attention to the issue of women and sport in the parliamentary debate in the future and to take initiatives to this end, because it will only be possible to get closer to the objective of providing equal opportunities for women in sport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17871	The next speaker is Mr Fink. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17892	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say, first of all, that I too am very glad that sports promotion has been increased to 500 million schillings, although I also know that this increase by 20 million shillings per year is not very much money. Because if you divide this – as Dr. Löschnak has said – into the individual sports clubs, then that is not even 2,000 p. In the end, however, there is "without money ka Musi", and therefore a bit of money has to come here, as Harald Fischl also says. In some circles it is said that you have money simply, but you don't talk about it, but I think you have to ask: Where do the little sports clubs, especially in the country, get the money? – You now get money through the roof associations, but that’s a small amount, for a sports club just about 10,000 S. Further funding is provided through the sports department of the country, and an association receives support from the municipality. That means: Public funds are claimed. However, the biggest revenue that a sports club has comes from events, such as a three-day festival. Anyone who has ever been to a sports club and has worked at such events knows that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Tent Festivals!]] The Minister of Finance has now agreed to increase the funding to 500 million schillings, but ultimately he gets the money back over the sports clubs. I only need this in my district to look at Feldbach and Fürstenfeld. He sent out his vampires again. I was myself an auditor. These auditors are now returning to the local authorities and check how many three-day festivals there have been and which sports club has made more than 300 000 S sales. In this case, the sports club must in turn pay sales tax, and in the event of a profit of more than 100 000 s, he must pay corporation tax. But this money the club urgently needs! He organizes festivals to build his sports house or to build his place. For this, most clubs do this, not for excursions or anything else, although there are clubs that consume the money for it. That is why the question is important, and we should talk about whether the sports clubs should not be equated with the voluntary fire brigade, the Red Cross or with the political parties or the ecclesial clubs. For these can make turnover of one million or two million schillings or profits of 200 000 S or 300 000 S and do not need to pay tax for it. I believe that sports clubs in particular need this solution! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that a more stringent taxation of the associations really threatens the existence of the sports clubs. This would not be a good development, because, as everyone knows, club life is an important part of the community structure and gives countless young people a hold on and meaningful employment. Dr. Lösnak and Karlheinz Kopf! I would like to ask both of you that during the next legislative period you also take up this taxation of the associations. For it would be a beneficial support for the small associations if this were extended in conversation with the Minister for Finance. Then we would have achieved a nice promotion for the clubs!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17934	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17955	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! A comment to my previous speaker. Before ÖVP politicians put themselves in the stuff for tent festivals and for clubs – which I think is in principle right – I ask that once the host and the corresponding representations in the Chamber of Commerce be brought to the raeson! There, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have to start! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fink: This is already the Minister of Finance!]] But now on my favorite topic, as Mr Head has already called me. Ladies and gentlemen! Sports is mostly practiced in fresh air, outdoors, outdoors: Skiing, cross-country skiing, hiking and cycling. What is the situation when cycling on forest roads? – Ladies and gentlemen, she is sad! For 1.2 million Austrians have a mountain bike, and at least half of them want to use forest roads, forest roads, whose maintenance and construction they themselves finance. But these at least 600 000 Austrians are locked out there, because it says: Cycling forbidden! During this legislative period, the ÖVP has blocked a change in this area – that is, Mr Peter is right – which is an opening of the forest roads for mountain bikers. Ladies and gentlemen! The old excuse of the question of liability no longer draws. Because the SPÖ requests, the petitions are quite clear. It's clear: Of course, the user is liable and not the landowner. However, the purpose of the EIA is to protect the interests of some of the less large-scale owners. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Class fight up two!]] I am looking forward to the election campaign in my constituency, in the constituency of Styria Mitte, where Mr von and Mr Liechtenstein is also running. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Old Socialist Class Fight!]] He has the forehead to lock the voters out of the forest in his constituency! So I'm really looking forward to this election campaign! It is therefore up to the ÖVP to protect the interests of some of the less large-scale owners and the self-interested interests of individual fighters. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much hope that the 2000 season will bring the use of forest roads to cyclists. This also brings new opportunities for tourism. In Bavaria, in South Tyrol, in Switzerland, in Slovenia – and this is what Mr Peter correctly mentioned – there is no such curiose ban as we in Austria. International sports magazines are known to warn of a holiday by bike in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I warn against wanting to block the people out of the wild. Hundreds of areas in Austria are already locked up for hikers, recreational athletes or swammerl seekers. This will not please the people, nor will the nature lovers, nor the children's friends, nor the Social Democratic Party! We are for mountain biking on forest roads, for new opportunities for tourism and for the forest as a relaxation room for all! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18040	Mr Platter is also speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18061	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the speech by my colleague and colleague, Mr Herzger, on the use of forest roads. Deputies of herbs! For me, on the one hand, your arguments are in no way understandable. On the other hand, I do not understand the time of criticism at all. I think that's snow from yesterday. I'll explain that to you, too. You probably passed the conclusion of many agreements: Agreements between countries, municipalities and tourism associations in consensus with the property owners. You probably have passed over that in recent years – until 31. December 1998 – more than 13,000 kilometres of forest roads have been released and new agreements are always being concluded. For example, just recently 800 kilometers were released in Vienna. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Deputies! In addition, it is likely that 90 percent of the tourist regions are already "bought" and that professionals have developed constructive solutions in this respect in consensus with the property owners. They perform these excellent achievements, these excellent initiatives of the countries, the municipalities, the tourism associations in consensus with the property owners due to electoral considerations! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It can't be. There is no doubt that such a procedure cannot be accepted by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz:... election campaign!]] I will now mention to you the advantages of agreements with the property owners. The forced opening of all forest roads – and I myself am "bikers" – is often very dangerous for the local "biker". He travels sideways, there is confusion and the like more, and finally one uses foothills and meadows. It certainly can't be that the cyclists ride there or there. On the other hand, it is important for the guest and also for the locals that there be clear conditions. Mountain bike paths must be well marked. Mountain bike paths have to have appropriate distances so that there is no conflict with mountain hiking. Mountain bike paths must be marked according to the difficulty levels, and they must also be maintained and maintained so that there are no holes there. But this is only in agreement with the property owner. What we need is a good tourist offer, better than in other countries, of which it is always claimed that everything is so free. We must be better than other countries, and this is only in agreement with the property owners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The experience of recent months and years has shown that the property owners are entering into these agreements, otherwise we would not have over 13,000 kilometres of forest roads on which "beaked". Therefore, this successful path will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18112	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18133	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer to a sentence from my previous speaker. You said: Professionals work in consensus with the property owners. – But if there is not this consensus, if there is a great route, but only a property owner opposes the opening, then I am on the side of the mountain bikers and not on the side of the property owners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Since we are discussing the 1997 sports report today, we know that more and more Austrians are doing sports at least occasionally. It's 60 percent. Sport is becoming increasingly important in order to preserve health, but also as leisure activities. 95 percent of sports enthusiasts perform their sport as wide-ranging and leisure sports and as health sports. Health sports are becoming increasingly important. Unfortunately, the least sports clubs offer a sports medical care. Mr State Secretary! I mean, this should be extended. The sports clubs in which people have sports have a very good image. They are of course also very important in society. And we also need the sports clubs for the exercise of the sports venues. My colleague Fuchs has already responded to women's sports. I would just like to mention that 59 percent of sports club members are men, 56 percent of whom are active in sports. Women in the sports clubs unfortunately have worse starting conditions than men. I find it particularly important to strengthen the integration of women into sport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be very good if more qualified trainers were available to the sports clubs. Only 5 percent of sportsmen are dedicated to performance and competition. Especially for them, it is important that they find good conditions for the exercise of their sport. Ladies and gentlemen! In my constituency there is the Nordic Iron ore training centre. It is mentioned in the present sports report, which is positive. It states that the use of funds with the greatest idealism of trainers is an incentive for the success of performance athletes and that it is gratifying that cooperation with teachers is constantly improving and that their concern that the apprentices had too little time for training due to the extensive sports training was unfounded, yes, that the apprentices do excellent performance in the examinations. However, I would also like to mention the ski trade school Schladming, which is also mentioned in the sports report. Through the HAK development course, the race racers have the opportunity to take the Matura in addition to their sport training. The first maturants received the mature test certificates about a month ago. That's good, because a sports career can be surprisingly fast to end. Then these young people have to and should find their place in life with the help of a well-founded education. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly look back at the Nordic World Championships in Ramsau. The Austrians achieved great sporting successes. I would also like to thank from this point of view of the House all those who took part in the preparatory work, which worked in the background and which did not see the work. I would like to thank the many non-refundable helpers and supporters. Because without them, such major events would not be carried out. Crowned heads and politicians are often in the spotlight, but those who ensure the smooth operation are often less thanked or taken as a matter of course. From the World Championship in Ramsau I come to the ski flying on the Kulm in Tauplitz – Bad Mitterendorf, the largest natural flight hill. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about the ice-cream race, Mrs. Col. Buder?]] This event will take place from 17 to 20. ==References====External links== 50 years after the first national ski flight event, we are already looking forward to sporting competitions. I would like to invite you very cordially! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18190	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the draft federal law, which amends the gambling law and the federal sports promotion law, in 2052 of the supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote, with regard to Article I by Mr Peter and Article II by Mr Grollitsch. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the law. First of all, we are voting separately on Article I of the Law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to agree with Rule I as part of the Committee's report to a sign. – This has been decided by a very large majority. We shall be voting separately on Rule II, also as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of Rule II to give a sign. – Article II is decided by a majority. I shall therefore vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted on. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the remaining parts of the report as part of the Committee's report to give a sign. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a sign. – The draft law is adopted by a majority of the third reading. The next item is the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report III-173 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote for this notice to be a sign. . The report of the Constitutional Committee has been taken note of by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grollitsch, Mr Grabner, Mr Head and Mr Comrades on comprehensive sports policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution on comprehensive sports policy to give an indication of this. The motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 204.) 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors pursuant to section 32e of the Rules of Procedure. 4 GEC on the review of the labour market Cases in the framework of the Federal Event (e.g. the birth of the AMS, the handling of the apprenticeship offensive, the management of employment-related EU funding) (2044 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18286	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18310	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For the second time today, we have the opportunity to discuss the matter of Euroteam, which was dealt with within the subcommittee. As you have today released a song of praise on the Federal Government's apprenticeships during the urgent request, I can only say that the "Euroteam", the "Euroteam Vienna" and the entire corporate conglomerate have contributed to the fact that the situation is the same as it is. Firstly, this is because of economic development, and secondly because of the economic situation it was quite possible that it would be so. In addition, you do not know that you have used more than 3.5 billion schilling for some 3,000 apprentices! What we do not understand is that you, as the responsible person – and you, Mrs Bundesminister, in particular, as the person responsible for labour market services – can accept that abuse is being done by means of funding. For it is abuse when it becomes apparent from your report of the labour market service that hundreds of promotion projects – some of which the "Euroteam" has handled – would be questioned. But you, with your political majority in the House, prevent the establishment of an investigation committee. I assume that this must have a reason. If I only grasp ten out of the 160 funding cases – regardless of the "Euroteam" – other "sensational" developments show up. For example, the Federal Institute for the Development of Vocational Training of Vocational Training (Steiermark) has carried out a project which: The Works Council calls it an educational advisor in its own company. – Very praiseworthy, this is a really excellent idea! But the question I'm asking is: Who is coming to enjoy this project? There are thousands of works councils and personnel representatives in Austria, but only 24 works councils participate in this project. Only 24 works councils participate, but the fatale is that the costs are down by 1.7 million schilling. That is, 24 works councils meet, they talk about how they can work better as educational consultants in their own company, and this ultimately costs taxpayers 1.7 million schilling. In this way, the final consumption per participant is 41 575 S! I can tell you that every company engaged in training would be in a position to continue training much more participants at the same time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, a certain Robert Lichtenegger for the monitoring of the process in this training module for a total of about seven days of work is shown to receive exactly 184 643,40 S. – This is your kind of youth and employment policy, which must be rejected most decisively! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is another example in which I constantly question the sense of meaning. I can tell you, Mrs Bundesminister: With this 3.5 billion schilling you could have occupied at least three times as many apprentices in Austria if you had looked more closely at the dubious figures like Mr. Chair Pearce and the like. That's why you're guilty! What I cannot understand is that you, as a competent minister, are watching this drive to this day. In November 1998, the Labour Market Service wrote a letter on the fact that there has been a double calculation that there have been failures and that the aim of the promotion has not been achieved. What have you done to this day to stop it? – They continue to make money available! Another project, whose support is the "Verein Frauen im Trend", has the project name "Chancen Today". There are 37 female participants, the cost of which is 2 million schilling. There is a work contract with the company Jeschke & Lampl on the amount of 152 628 S for public relations. I really wonder, Mrs Federal Minister, how 37 participants can get 150 000 S of costs for folder, posters and presentations! They were in the "striking" every day, otherwise you can't imagine how they could consume it at all. 37 participants are addressed and ultimately consume 2 million schilling! That's what to question. It cannot be the goal of an employment policy – even the target group is very interesting: women who are seeking leadership positions – that for 37 female participants 2 million schillings are charged with tax money! This includes costs for the secretariat of 230 000 S, costs of 470 000 S for project management and 212,000 S for national travel costs. I wonder where they went! Only 37 participants, and the travel costs for the seminar leaders amount to 270 000 S! Mrs. Minister, where's the money? – You are responsible for not having anyone other than you and your federal government! I'll tell you once again: 3.5 billion schilling for 3 000 courses – I guarantee you: If you had given these 3 billion schillings into the hands of qualified, qualified business advice, you would have had much more success and would now not have to provide billions of schilling for youth employment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18391	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18412	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We had an opportunity to speak on this issue today. Since then, nothing has changed. The strategy has been issued: The apprenticeship policy of the Federal Government, this offensive apprenticeship policy, is simply being made worse. It will be mediocre and, if it is possible, one will be overshadowed with figures that can often not be proved at all in speed, but other figures - as far as the members of the government are concerned - have been proved and reproduced at the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! At what level this is happening, especially in the last few minutes in the previous debate. That's where the Head of Parliament said out here: There was a pace of time, since there was no agreement, the Social Democrats have given the time. – The fact is, however, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been a five-party arrangement and an agreement on this issue. But that wouldn't be the tragedy of the whole thing. You mean if the German government's apprenticeship policy is already being scratched and if you see that you are not successful, you simply have to climb a level deeper. Then, at the lowest level, you have to defame people and, above all, put innocent young people into a light where they are definitely bad. I think it – and I say this here – is a real scandal when someone goes out here and, as a university professor, a student who has belonged to him – although he should help him find a job as his job would be – massaging work and letting him out of work! You don't have to interpret, Mr Gaugg! Mr President, this does not mean that Mr Gaugg is being interpreted in such a way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18452	Excuse me, Mr Deputies: I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18468	This does not correspond to parliamentary use. [[Abg. Gaugg: But your speech is not!]] You don't have to interpret, Mr Gaugg! I'll tell you: Jan Klima is neither employed in an Austrian company nor at ÖIAG, but is employed in a foreign group. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What Mr Grollitsch said here as a university professor does not correspond to the truth. That's just a diffamation of a young person! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The clear hand movements don't help either. Because your hand movements characterize you and your political nature, a kind that was yesterday, which we no longer need today and which we do not want in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the Freeman: All diffamations!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... Make an order call! Now it's gonna be adorable!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, Mr Ofner, that a majority report has been adopted in this subcommittee. The fact is that in this subcommittee the finding was made: The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs expressed great interest in clarifying all doubts about the correctness of the contract. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where was the Federal Chancellor today? Where was he?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Those who speak of the lie usually have themselves...!]] You have the President of the Court of Auditors on 5 May. In July 1999, it requested a review of the contracts and promotion agreements with the Euroteam Vienna in its area. I would like them to act as correctly as the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who, in this case, also entrusted the Court of Auditors with a review. [[Abg. Gaugg: And don't appear like today! Where was he?]] This shows that they really have nothing to hide from their work and that they can be proud of their work in the service of the youth of Austria. [[Abg. Gaugg: Of course he has something to hide, otherwise he would have been today!]] You can yell as much as you want. We stand for the labour policy of the youth!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18683	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18705	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The most remarkable thing about Mr Brix's speech was the volume. [[Abg. More riding: To overtone Gaugg, you need that!]] In some situations – even if the hall is clearly occupied and you are well heard without microphone reinforcement – this volume is of course also a sign of overthinking a personal uncertainty. That's a little bit like the loud singing in the forest! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] Because you know exactly, Mr Brix: It's not that easy. Therefore, you always try to show the effects at the classrooms again and again. We admit that there are a few more apprentices, we do not dispute that. But you are trying to give the impression that this would have been a worthy activity of "Euroteam". We have examined this in the Committee. To this end, I would like to say: Although this merit was perhaps quite satisfactory in "Euroteam" on the material side, on the apprentice side not quite as strong. This was also an assignment that did not even aim to create apprenticeships in quantities, but served to study structures to see how to create apprenticeships later on. By the way, 24 places have also come out, but publicly it has been sold differently, and you know that! It was sold by the Federal Chancellor as an offensive, but not as a study of how to make an offensive. That's something completely different. That is why I find it unsatisfying when suddenly – partly also from the Federal Chancellery – the Black Peter is pushed to the AMS or the Federal Minister of the Interior Hostasch – so: hoppla! For the fact that there has always been efforts towards the labour market in this House is undisputed. We can talk for a long time about whether this is right or wrong; this is, as it were, another construction site. But "Euroteam" was not primarily invented there, but it is quite original ball house square – almost original filling Ballhausplatz! I would like to say that again from this point of view. The Ballhausplatz is now represented by the Secretary of State. In the "Euroteam" question, Mrs. Hostasch, the Federal Minister, is only peripheral and, in fact, more affected by existing responsibilities on the government bank, but not by active commitment. This is an essential difference, and I think it is important to say that. I also think it is important to remember once again that the formal performance of the "Euroteam" group is left to be desired. The auditor, who did not even know that he was elected, is now working abroad. We've always said: If he has spoken in writing, so or so, then we have no reason to doubt it primarily; unless there is any evidence of the opposite. Nobody showed up, I'll add that. But if you are so excited about this young person working abroad at an international group, I would like to tell you the following. Whether he's young or old, it's not supposed to matter. Although he would work domestically with a domestic group or a domestic company, he would have the right to respect. As much of these attempts to act as if this were something special and as if because of the special nature of an employment in an international group abroad would be somewhat immune. It's not like that! Either it's all right – then he can work where he likes to go home or abroad – or it's not okay. Then he can also work where he likes, in the home or abroad, but you have to call it by name. All of this is just a plausive distraction, because I would like to tell you the following – that was not so much possible in the very emotional debate in the afternoon –: The provisional accounts made known to us in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee have already been remarkable. This has not been understood equally if one has read it, because there have been deviations between the common capitals listed in the company's book and the parent capitals published in the provisional annual accounts which were not plausible. That's where we discussed: Could this be someplace else? Then, in turn, we were of the opinion that this cannot stand elsewhere, because the parent capital now has a certain place in the balance sheet – whether it is fully paid or not, is another thing again. If it is not fully paid, it must be specified. Simply writing in balanced stock capitals is rather unusual. It appears that there have been confusions with the equity approaches to be made in a balance sheet in accordance with the accounting rules. So that was dilettant! This has also led to the fact that the "Merkur Treuhand" has written a polite, slightly larmoyante letter in order to act as if it were right anyway, but at the same time it has already corrected its own clients, namely the "Euroteam Beteiligungsverwaltungs AG", and has pointed out what they should have done. I would now have thought that if the Board of Directors of a public limited company had to send a preliminary annual report to a Court of Auditors, he might discuss it with his tax advisor before, because he himself must not be a king of accounting. As the board of directors of a stock company that is economically audited, he has such people in hand. He also has an exquisite Supervisory Board, in which two excellent lawyers sit. For example, if I were to quote before the Court of Auditors and present provisional annual accounts there, I would look at them very carefully and discuss them with my professional advisers so that no formal errors are included in them. That was Mr. Chair-Parrest, but Wurst. I need to tell you what they call "goodwill" he didn't build up with it. For if the sausage is him, you think: Well, if even his preliminary annual accounts are sausages to him, like Wursch is perhaps something else to him? This shows a smoother handling of numbers, a looser handling of formal regulations and a great laxity, so according to the motto of "Mr. Karl" – who knows it perhaps remembers it –: "The Gansl at Christmas was always there, Mr. Rat." [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] – That would mean in this case: We have always had a positive cash flow; what do you want from us? – And this impression is disillusioning. If such people are in a special confidence relationship, so that they receive contracts without a call for tenders - I admit that it was less than 200 000 ECU - and if you calculate how much more than this order sum was below 200 000 ECU plus VAT, and if you make up the Schilling balance, you can see that it was only 18 000 s below the limit! With about 3.3 million schillings, the amount was only 18,000 s below the limit, so with an exact eye-to-eye reading it was so "fleet out" – 3-liter car – that it remained exactly below the limit. By 18 000 s, the contract value exceeds the maximum limit allowed only in the promill, although it is of course formally in order. – This is what you do for good friends. That's what they say: Look, I can only give you this freely if you, with your total claims, stay below ECU 200 000 plus VAT. Then it is calculated retrogradely, so to speak, by retrograde calculation. That is why we have to prove retroactively why the price one has made is very close to the limit for the obligation to tender. This is the impression that remains behind, and this is a moral image that is unsatisfying, because after all, the acting persons are the highest representatives of the Republic, except for the President of the Federal Republic, who has nothing to do with such things, for he sits in the Hofburg and silent – during the day. [[Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Oellinger were cheerful.]] Moreover, this is really not his problem. Since he was re-elected, he is silent, but otherwise he is the highest representative – I just didn't want him to be left out. What the Federal Chancellor is doing – so I don't know, that doesn't mean good will. Now you can only hope for real hope – not only because it is good for the opposition parties and because, of course, we are on 3rd. In October, I hope to do something about these things, I admit it openly; people should know that before they go to the election cell – that he would be a little disaster to the elector's will, for he would have deserved it fairly! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18762	Mr Mag. Steindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18792	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We discussed the subject in a very detailed and emotional way a few hours ago and highlighted the role of "Euroteam". There is a committee report which has been approved by the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the Subcommittee and which contains the eleven essential points. These eleven points are very important to me, because they are held: Point 1, that there have been shortcomings in the award of orders to "Euroteam" – yes, and it is important to stress this again –; [[Abg. Böhacker: We have heard this many times today!]] Point 2, that there is a close proximity of "Euroteam" to socialist party secretary, and thus there was the creation of an unacceptable start-up advantage – you only need to read the 30-page report carefully. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where's that?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Parnigoni! Is that right?]] Point 3, that there has been an incompatibility of multiple functions ; [[Abg. Haigermoser: Parnigoni! Make an actual correction!]] Point 4, that there has been a sluggish and careless handling of important officials with the law of the association and that the same actors have repeatedly occurred in this very complicated company union; furthermore, that the funding commitments to all companies of "Euroteam" have been made without coordination with the institutions of the AMS. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Parnigoni! This is a typical SPÖ report!]] Next point: Orders to "Euroteam" were given, although competent bodies already exist and have existed. The other points concern the process with the apprentice shotline and the serious shortcomings in project handling. Another point concerns the inconsistency between the amount of orders and the performance of the services provided – Mr Luke’s speech has been received – and the last point is that there is a lack of efficiency in the field of labour market services in Vienna, particularly in the field of mediation. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Call to the ÖVP:Entered! He didn't go in!]] [[Rejoicing]] I know that the opposition is always insufficient in the majority's report. [[Abg. Apple Basin: What consequences do you draw from it? What consequences?]] No matter what report we have drawn up, you would not have voted in any way. Only one thing I would like to say: We have not only been fused with information material in the Subcommittee, but it has been quite obvious that there has been some kind of watering through general questions, especially on the part of SPÖ delegates. They wanted to push different things out. What I particularly commend is the following, ladies and gentlemen, [[Abg. Böhacker: And what is the consequence?]] At about 5 p.m. from the speaker's desk, I outlined the "Euroteam" braid, the "red network". [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Steindl, it is not true either by the repetition!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At 5.57 p.m., I got a fax here from Mr. Georg Zanger, who writes the following – and this is very interesting, because this gives me a significant light on the whole –: [[Abg. Böhacker: Aha! Mr. Zanger!]] "Dear, Mr. Mag. Steindl! I am sending you a letter on behalf of my client, Mr Gerald Gerstbauer, to Mr Voggenhuber on 31 December. In May 1999, the Commission sent a copy of the notice.' The content of this attached letter is a complaint against Mr Voggenhuber. [[Abg. Edler: Then let him defend himself! He's supposed to defend himself!]] This means that, according to my speech, one has tried to make me mouth dead by threatening me a complaint! [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] These are methods that we certainly do not like here in the House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] I therefore ask the Minister, because Mr. Gerstbauer is – or, I don't know – the political secretary of Mrs. Hostasch Did she know about it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Zanger was that...!]] You really have to explain this: Did she know about it? Did she know about these processes? [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] What are the charges still here? Here Members in the House are intimidated, threatened! [[Call the ÖVP: I'm sorry!]] These are mafia-like conditions, we don't like them here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] [[Call to the liberals: This is a coalition crisis!]] I'll show it on: The report itself states that Mr. Gerstbauer was present in October 1994 when the founding association, "BFI Wien "Euroteam's University of Applied Sciences", was formed, where he was a member of the board until August 1997. In June 1997, that is, before, there was a government clause in which the project "The Youth One Chance" was decided. This project has then been awarded to a "Euroteam" group of companies. There was and still there – I say – a human connection: On the one hand, Mr. Gerstbauer, who has played a very important role – there are also notes of conversation here – when it came to finding and setting up trainees. Hiezu had a conversation with the IBW and also a conversation with the Federal Minister. In doing so, Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch said that the project should be presented again to Mr Gerstbauer. Then there is a note that reads: "Mr. Gerstbauer has announced that the mandate to the "Euroteam Vienna" under the title "Lehrplatzakquisites" was given by Mag. Böhm was originally rejected" and then "We then commissioned it under another title, at the level of 2.5 million schilling." - Quote. This clearly shows that Mr Gerstbauer had taken on a very dominant role in awarding such contracts to the Ministry of Social Affairs. There is a classical incompatibility between the client on the one hand and the contractor on the other. Mr. Gerstbauer, as stressed, was active as a member of the board of directors in this company, where "Euroteam Beteiligungsverwaltungsverwaltungs AG" holds 42 percent of the shares. The contract was awarded to this company not under that name, but under the former name "L.S. Veratungsgesellschaft GesmbH". – This clearly shows that there is a connection. I really want to see this clearly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What did the singer say back then?]] So I don't wonder if there's a lot going wrong in the AMS area or there. Where politics, namely socialist politics, really interferes, there we find that a great many things are going wrong. There is – I say again – a melange of friendly economy, sluggishness and planlessness. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer:... is it completely different again!]] This seems to be a tradition in the SPÖ! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19094	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19115	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning, I would like to point out where Mr Steindl has stopped: not because of these threats of complaint, which, of course, there is also our address and the address of the FPÖ, but because of an opinion delivered by Mr Stuhlpärer today against the APA, I assume that the Liberal Forum will also soon come up with a complaint - but because of a statement that Mr Stuhlpär has given to the APA. I think that's interesting. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has been sitting up there all the time and has taken up the debate with a tape recorder from the press log. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In the press log he was sitting!]] That doesn't bother me either: Should he record what he wants when he believes it... [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He certainly had a special permit!]] But the point is that - and here, Mr President, I am speaking to you - I find it quite clear when Mr President-in-Office says: In addition, it facilitates the personal presence – I quote – of "further denunciations, lies and untruths in the original tone, not to be sued without delay by Members of the Stenographical Protocol corrected." - Citation of stools. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He has no idea at all!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is crazy!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:...he does not know that this is not at all possible!]] His presence there with a tape recorder and this explanation was, of course, only such that he obviously wanted to try to intimidate the first Member and, secondly, to claim that they might say the untruth by means of a correction in the Stenographic Protocol. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But this is interesting!]] Mr President. I would think that this should still concern us, because these points, these accusations and this attitude of Mr President-in-Office are not by chance! [[Congratulation with the Greens, the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] In this sense, I also understand Mr Steindl. If you make a statement here in Parliament at 5 p.m., and at 5:57 p.m., there is the threat of the complaint or the reference to the threat of the complaint by the lawyer, then the fun stops, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! [[Abg. Silhavy:... is not a complaint threat!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's where he stops!]] Parliamentaryism is then required! If you do not yet understand this, then you will have to understand it at the latest if you are challenged by any situation in this direction, you should not even be in the majority of governments. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Keep this in mind clearly! In 20 years, you know it again! Or in 15 years or 12 years! In two or three periods! Believe me!]] However, I will come back to the debate which we have held before in the context of the urgent question. It is striking that neither in the subcommittee nor today, when answering the urgent question, has the Federal Chancellery given an answer to the questions under the contract, Mr State Secretary. You have refused any concrete answer, I hope you will. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a moral scene!]] They have read it down from the leaf and have probably not been able to do it any more than read it from the leaf. But the point was that, Mr State Secretary, we asked very precisely when the work of the project coordinator – not apprentices – was interrupted, for example, by travel activities: Was there any interruptions? – There was no answer from your side. I do not ask that by chance, because the contract of work was very inaccurately described. It was just those ominous 1 560 hours. Mr. Pearce himself makes it more accurate. He says that the task of project coordination has been: the establishment of a hotline – very interesting: the establishment of the hotline! – the establishment of the Call Center, the support of the Call Center, the selection of ads and the participation in the selection of ads. I can remember very well, Mr State Secretary, that, in many of these points, not on the ads, but on other points such as Call Center or Hotline, you have said this is not our competence, but that is the job of the Minister for Social Affairs. I have recorded very clearly that the Federal Chancellor and you, as his voice, have tried to hand over responsibility to the Ministry of Social Affairs. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to: We will not let it be used! I also say to you that we take very seriously the responsibility of the Federal Minister, who is responsible in this case too. But as simple as Mr Bundeskanzler Klima now wants to do – to say: I know nothing, that was all the matter of Mrs Social Minister, but I have nothing to do with it – so simply we will not do it to Mr Bundeskanzler with the necessary answers to this question. [[Abg. Haigermoser: My name is Feldhase!]] I come to another point, because we have only recently received a reply from the AMS: so to speak, "fifth folding" on the question of operating consulting hours at the PROFESSIONET project, the fifth attempt to give an answer. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] I'll tell you what I'm trying to do. For example, in the press release of the 6th. July Mr. Chairman: Ölinger: Instead of the agreed 120 establishments with 50 hours each to be advised, 6 000 hours were charged for only 25 farms." In addition to the chair front: "It is true that the PROFESSIONET project did not provide any consulting hours. Instead, according to project application, 120 participants and 24 companies were planned under the project." - I don't need to comment on that. I read to you what the AMS said in his criticism: "The planned number of operational contacts (120 establishments with 50 advisory hours each) has not been reached." - That's what the AMS says. Some time later, the AMS, once again in a communication to the Committee, expressed itself on these consultations and on this comic number of consultative hours – 349, a prime number, I do not need to repeat it in detail: "This means that the table shows the number of counsellors at times (and not the consultation hours provided by the promoter). – Then this is also presented by examples. Example one: 1 consultant, 3 participants, 8 hours of consulting is equal to 24 consulting hours. – As far as we can multiply: 8 x 3 = 24. - Good. I also take note of this statement first of all. Then let us go to what the Federal Minister has said today in her statement on the APA – I quote from today's issue –: "Only those costs agreed and demonstrated in the contract can be claimed in the bill; that is salary costs, proven property costs directly eligible for the project, comprehensible joint cost surcharges for office rents, energy costs, etc. Host: "There was therefore no calculation for hourly rates throughout the project." – citations. So this is the exact opposite of what the AMS has previously explained to us: Any reference to hourly numbers and consultation hours has nothing to do with financial compensation, but only with statistical data and indicators. Since the red light is already shining here, I am now saving myself reading to you today's statement of the AMS, which is again contrary to the declaration of the Minister for Social Affairs, and I say: Mrs. Federal Minister! Their explanation would mean that Mr. Sühlpfarrer can also prove his 35 foreign travels as a cost of consulting. Now, however, we know from the project that Mr President-in-Office of the Council has been thrown out over 20 of the 35 journeys he wanted to make in the framework of the project. – Note to the end. Next Note: In the Subcommittee, Mr Buchinger, his sign AMS Chairman, explained to us that there was a confirmation from Dr Winternitz that there were 349 consultation hours. – Now I ask you: What's true? – If there is this 349-hour confirmation, then either all these statements do not vote, or Mr. Dr. Winternitz, his sign Supervisory Board Chairman, has a problem. Or it could also be that Mr Buchinger has a problem, because he has explained something to us in committee which is obviously not right. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just telling you one thing: These five, six, seven, eight, nine explanations are as well as the tried final reports and final accounts in the PROFESSIONET project evidence enough that it smells in the Causa "Euroteam". It smells up to the top! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] They can be pleased that the Subcommittee had to stop working. We'd have gone on. You can be happy about this because I would have guaranteed you that we would have asked for further information on some of the other statements, written information that we received and which had been proved to have been so prepared that they had only answered the immediate question. For example, if the question "Have you been given the club,Euroteam Vienna's fees or money?" the answer "At the club "Euroteam Vienna" we didn't get any fees and money!" It was allowed to demand – unfortunately we could no longer do so in the Committee – whether any of the GesmbH's fees, expenses compensation and the like were flown. I guarantee you: We will not let go of this – whether with or without subcommittee. A committee of inquiry would be necessary, but you are still not ready for this political responsibility and debate that would be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19324	For business treatment: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19345	Mr President. After the course of the debate so far, we think it is absolutely necessary for the Federal Chancellor to appear and participate in this debate. Therefore, according to § 18 para. 3 request for the presence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and ask to vote on it immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19373	I would like to put this request to the vote, and I would therefore like to introduce it briefly, since for this reason every Member has the right to enter the Chamber. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But this is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure!]] I would ask the Federal Minister to understand that she will come along a little later. [[Some Members enter the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now let the vote!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take the places, because we are voting on the request made by Mr Scheibner at the time of the Federal Chancellor's presence in the current debate on a report by the Court of Auditors on the review of labour market matters by the Court of Auditors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the request to give a sign of approval. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr President, it cannot come in during the vote or people!]] – The request is rejected by a majority. Mrs. Hostasch is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19441	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has already been discussed very intensively in the afternoon about some of the accusations and also questions that have now been raised again in the debate, and there has also been a very detailed debate in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. Because, in the last speech, it has been criticised that not enough has always been answered, I can say, on my own initiative, that the chairman of the Subcommittee has repeatedly asked whether any further addition to the reply to the information subjects and, ultimately, also to Mr Wittmann and me has been desired. I believe that all those involved with a great deal of materiality, but also with a very great intensity, have really tried to give clear answers to open questions. Therefore, allow me to comment briefly on some of the points that have now been raised in the debate and, at the outset, I would like to refer to Mr Gaugg's point of view, which has meant that if, in the apprenticeship situation, an improvement has occurred in the employment situation, this is solely due to economic development. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] It is undisputed that growth, of course, is an important prerequisite for economic development to have more employment, but also fewer unemployed people. Nevertheless, what has been expressly stated by the two economic research institutes, the IHS and the Wifo, in the reports they have just presented: If we had not taken the comprehensive measures of active labour market policy, then the trend in the labour market could not have been achieved. – Therefore a clear commitment to an active labour market policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, on all projects, in particular on innovative, new ones, in which experimental attempts are being made to go new ways, practice criticism and question them in terms of their efficiency. In my department as well as in the labour market service, it is kept in mind both the efficiency of the projects and the question of the extent to which they take account of the mandate and the objective of the integration of the job-seekers. However, allow me to say that very often, if a project has to be set up due to low efficiency, it is also repeatedly questioned from this House – and is also criticised – why this has not been carried on, although it has not been demonstrated that the efficiency was not given. I therefore ask that the evaluations of projects always be carried out with objectivity and not to measure by two measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me briefly to point out that we have a comprehensive control instrument for the use of the funds of the European Social Fund as well as for the use of national funds and the control of national projects. As regards the resources of the European Social Fund, both controls are carried out by the European Court of Auditors and the European Commission and by the Austrian Court of Auditors, and of course there is also an internal revision of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Similarly, the control instruments of the labour market service as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Austrian Court of Auditors are used exclusively for national projects. With this in mind, I can tell you that both in the form of the report of the European Court of Auditors and in the form of the report of the Austrian Court of Auditors, there is written confirmation that all projects have been properly carried out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the PROFESSIONET project has now been re-introduced and again the number of calendar hours has been criticized, I would like to say: I am sorry that it has not been possible, either in the subcommittee or through written opinions or through my answer to the question today, to create the clarity that gives you the assurance that it has worked absolutely correctly and properly in this context. I therefore hope that the Court of Auditors, which was asked by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and by me, will be able to remove from you all the projects which have been awarded a detailed special examination the rest of the doubt that this has not been properly worked. I am therefore very glad that the President of the Court of Auditors, at the request of the Federal Chancellor and by myself, has assured me of carrying out this extensive special examination. I am, of course, – like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – interested in creating clarity and in obtaining confirmation of a correct, proper and legal procedure or being informed of defects. This is our responsibility, which we want to and must assume. I would ask you, however, to deal with fairness and correctness when assessing this responsibility and not to say things that have not been said in the Subcommittee or elsewhere. I would also ask you to make use of their democratic rights if they feel attacked and discouraged and see no other way of going than this. We live in democracy, and if you use rights here in this House, then you must grant equal rights to others who are not in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to briefly address the allegation made in the Subcommittee, namely that the members of the Committee have been covered by materials by my section and by the AMS and that they have been virtually overwhelmed by the processing of these materials. – We have tried to provide some concrete and comprehensive materials, and I therefore regret this criticism. I would also like to say that, despite the abundance of materials we have been permanently confronted with new demands on other materials and, of course, we have had to try to make this information available to the ladies and gentlemen of the Subcommittee to the full. So I very much regret that something has been desired but subsequently criticized. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear once again that Mr Gerstbauer from my ministerial office – and he has already made this clear in writing – has relinquished his role with "Euroteam" in 1995. He has taken no influence on forgiveness, nor have I influenced it. Rather, according to technical evaluation by the competent authorities, appropriate awards were made both by the AMS and by my place of business, and it will be up to the Court of Auditors to examine to what extent my claims can also be confirmed by the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steindl! He's not in the room right now. Nevertheless, I would like to say: I can only be surprised that the second party of government is criticising it in that it is claimed that something is going wrong wherever social democracy interferes and becomes active. I believe that the coalition partner is thus adopting a successful employment policy. They will not be able to deny that Austria is successful in employment policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have a high level of employment, a marked decline in unemployment, the lowest youth unemployment and a significant decline in women's unemployment, a decline in unemployment in all the Länder, in all sectors and practically in all age groups. I think we should be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen. Abroad admires us. It is a pity that we do not have the courage to see the strength we have actually demonstrated in our country! Dear ladies and gentlemen! You have helped by your legislative decisions to ensure that the government, in particular for young people, has been able to implement this policy. I would therefore be pleased if we all were to confess to the youth any chance that no youth would be without perspective!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19545	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19567	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! As I see it, Mr Grollitsch is not here now, unfortunately. That is why, Mr Scheibner, I turn to you. I assume that you and I know a lot of teachers who are genuinely trying to impart knowledge and quality, and who are also making the effort to get a little career advice and to make sure that those who take a school get a chance in the economy. If a teacher of your group, Professor Grollitsch, here at the speaker's desk, criticises in a sentence that students of him have difficulty finding a job and taking time off, but that one already has a job by means of protection, and that is a negative one, which is not yet true, as my colleague Brix has already said, then I would like to point out that this House is not worthy of this, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: If it's true, it's very negative!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also unique for your group that a member of your group goes out of here and complains as a professor that a student has found work. I think that we should conclude this chapter. I just wanted to say that because it deeply touches me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss contracts to the company "Euroteam". – There were a number of legitimate issues both in the Subcommittee and here in the debate. They also provided answers and explanations which do not make some question or other appear up-to-date. But there are also open questions. The billing of the projects is still open, and there are also questions that have not yet been resolved. It is therefore good that, on the one hand, the AMS did not pay on its own, without examining it, but referred to identified shortcomings and, on the other hand, as Mrs Bundesminister has just said, the Court of Auditors was asked to carry out an examination. In the final analysis, each individual question will be answered as an answer. Mr Steindl! I would also like to say two sentences to you. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We are all threatened with complaints from Mr. Chair-Parbar, not just Mr. Steindl!]] They were certainly enraged because you may have been personally addressed or felt unnecessary because of this writing or other things. I do not know the content of the letter and I do not want to judge it. I mean, you have to deal with the one who sent you the fax. Mr Steindl! However, I believe that it is not acceptable or should be used to condemn a democratic party in our country, namely the Social Democratic Party, by speaking of SPÖ tradition, sluggishness and the like. I don't think that's a point of order. [[Abg. Haller: The case of the Austrian citizen does not serve it, but very well of your case!]] I would like, as far as I am concerned, to make a statement on the subject. However, they have made it very difficult to continue to discuss matters now. "Euroteam" is not a SPÖ union, and that is why this accusation is actually going empty! [[Abg. May. Steindl: You don't even get applause!]] [[Complementary and intermediate calls at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steindl! I take note – I cannot change it anyway – that you want to continue your inaccurateness! Do it! It will have to judge the other! I think it is important to point to the following aspect in this discussion – it has already been mentioned, but I would like to point it out again –: We are talking here about inadequacies in the field of procurement, which are not even 1 per cent in the overall assessment of all measures, but only half a per cent of the total funding cases! I believe it is important to note once that 99.5% of cases have remained undisputed and have therefore been properly disposed and settled. You should hold that, I think. It is also apparent that the aim of the debate is not the restless clarification of all these accusations, but that the Social Democracy and the Party President of the SPÖ, the Federal Chancellor of our Republic, should be adapted. But I believe that this objective will not be achieved because the objectivity will ultimately prevail! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! President. — The debate is closed. He is the last present of his group in this debate, as I see it. Mr Oellinger! Is it really serious for your group to discuss the subject matter of youth employment? For I do not understand why, for example, your group has only listened to the 1999 vocational training report during the very demanding discussion in the Economic Committee, but has not said a word about it. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: There was nothing to say!]] There was no word from the Greens, no statement of opinion, no criticism or proposals. They just sat there in amazement and waited for what was happening. – Perhaps this also shows that the Greens in this matter are not primarily about youth training and the question of teaching institutions, but only about the need for a scandal! I regret that in your party you are entering a competitive situation with your colleague Pilz, who is the better discoverer! That is why it is in reality! Your laughter proves I'm right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the facts: Unfortunately, we are dealing with a declining willingness to train the economy. Measures are therefore necessary. The framework conditions for apprenticeship training have been improved, they have been made more attractive to the economy, but this has not led us to have more apprenticeships. Therefore, it is the job of the labour market service to contribute through projects and promotions to the recognition of this need by the economy and ultimately increase the number of apprenticeships offered accordingly. In this respect, I think we should consider how we can achieve this. I appeal to the representatives of the economy as a whole, in particular within the People's Party, to help to reduce prejudices, such as the argument that apprentices are practically pragmatic and too expensive, which have not been in place or have never been voted on, because otherwise the measures created by the reception network will have to be continued and, if necessary, expanded. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in this debate - and I have at least experienced it - the Greens and the Liberals in this House have taken the following position: The liberals and the Greens have been outraged in scandalizing themselves. We tried to mobilise all the forces to prevent youth unemployment in Austria. The liberals and the Greens, on the other hand, have surpassed themselves in criticism. We created new professions, new training opportunities, with the quality of training being our priority. The liberals and the Greens, on the other hand, have ultimately been outlawed in the defamation. At the moment, we are reforming vocational training in the company and in the vocational school, and this reform must certainly continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19685	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19707	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Riepl, your last sentence is that you do not even take the content of your speech seriously in the first part, because if you call for a fair and constructive style of speech on the one hand and you hold back against diffamations and lumpy convictions, but then the liberals, the Greens and the Liberals say, then in your speech you represent a divided personality or at least you cannot draw a congruent conclusion from the first and second part of your speech and thus have no right to let others take you and your speech seriously! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Riepl! The facts speak for themselves – and that's why you won't come around – whether it's 0.5, 0.75 or 0.35 percent of the funding volume: From its foundation to this day, the company "Euroteam" has a curious history of founding, a unique history of statutes, remarkable changes and new constructions in the Ges.m.b.H. area and a company partnership, which has also been criticised by one of the actual and independent auditors and considered not to be objective and correct. All of this can be seen from the files, and all of this should be known to you if, as we have, you had studied and read the files. It does not matter to me whether Mr President-in-Office, a lawyer or anyone else is trying to bring a free-elected Member who is obliged to the Constitution of this Republic and the representation of the rights of Austrian citizens with a letter and under pressure! My sympathy is with colleagues from the ÖVP and not with you, Mr Riepl, nor with Mr Brix and others on the part of Social Democracy, who have not yet recognized what this debate is all about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] It is an attempt to put pressure on a elected Member of this House, under the influence of Mr Stichtpfarrer and his actions here and his threats expressed by the media, as well as on the tolerance of these proceedings by the President of Parliament and the corresponding business treatment, on the application in accordance with § 18 para. 3 not to allow GOG to vote immediately, but to bring about delays in such a way. Ladies and gentlemen! This reminds me of democracies that ended in 1988 and 1989. I hope that this will not happen before the 3rd. October is a new start here in the high house that makes school. Pressions against a Member of Parliament – no matter which group he comes from and how I am otherwise opposed to him – I will not tolerate for myself and for my group! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am going to oppose these pressures with all clarity! I would have liked to see at least one of the speakers from the Social Democracy ranks, such as you, Mr Riepl, holding back from these methods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Mr Brix! I say quite clearly to you: You can yell, sob and do what you want: As long as I am elected Members of this House, there will be no pressure on Members of this House. I will raise my vote against whenever someone should try the same thing as Mr President-in-Office and his lawyer today. These are methods I am not used to, which I consider incompatible with a democracy. I would like to see all the Members in a democratically elected Parliament acting consistently against such methods and attempts, regardless of whether there are different positions in the matter and in the discussion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Riepl! It seems to you and the EIA to be quite clear that eleven points of the "Euroteam" employment programme are clearly questionable. This will be clear if you read the report you have adopted, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] It also shows that this is not to be considered correct. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say the following: Thanks be to God, this account will not be the last record of this causa. As we have heard, the Court of Auditors will carry out its investigations properly. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: We have nothing against it!]] In addition, the criminal authorities in Austria will carry out investigations, and at a later date it will be addressed who has been right today in this debate and who will cover it. There will be no way through it, no matter how the elections took place on 3 March. Go out on October! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am sure that, with their expertise, the Court’s officials – now partially present – will carry out the reviews precisely, conscientiously and in accordance with Austrian laws and will not be put under any pressure from anyone, no matter what attempts should be made!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19807	The next speaker is Mr Edler. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I personally oppose any form of pressure, and I believe that my total fraction, the Social Democracy, is against any oppression and threat that is expressed or done somewhere! Ladies and gentlemen! If today especially Gaugg, Öllinger and Steindl have become judges, we all know that the procedure is pending due to the presentation of the facts, then this is incomprehensible for us and cannot be accepted by us. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been repeatedly expressed that many here are only concerned with adapting the SPÖ or the Federal Chancellor who are successful in employment policy, especially in the field of youth employment. Ladies and gentlemen! You finally have to take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It must be noted that: Green Members have started this discussion, and the others have taken this up, with the FPÖ being very late because, for example, Mr Gaugg has taken some time until he has come up with what it is all about. Then Mr. Westenthaler took over the whole thing. That's the situation once! We have been able to see clearly because of the press releases that this is no longer about the matter, but about the pre-election campaign and about adapting to someone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] It has been repeated and also expressed by the valued Minister of State that we can be proud, ladies and gentlemen. There are international assessments of the employment situation, in particular in the field of youth employment, and I do not understand at all that our good cut-off cannot be seen in principle even in a positive way! While we had only 37 000 training places in 1997, we currently have around 42 000 training places, although the economy has actually ceased to carry out its task in particular concerning human capital in the form of training and training. [[Abg. Haigermoser: such a cheese! That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come back to work in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee. In principle, the confidentiality that prevails there is to be safeguarded. She was the first to break my colleague, Oellinger, because he wanted to complete his media work. In view of this, I ask the question: What do we need subcommittees for? In this way, every one of us could hand over a statement of facts from the prosecutor's house! Then we didn't have to do the week-long work at all! What's this supposed to be good for, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! That is certainly not fruitive! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the address of the ÖVP: Mr Steindl! Mr Morak is not here, and I do not know if he, the castle actor, is coming to the High House again. With your way of presenting yourself, Mr Steindl, you have performed yourself like a castle actor today! That was quite clear and clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] If the EIA adopts the common success rate of employment policy, we take note of this. Let's talk out! They have repeatedly made difficulties during the pre-negotiations. You didn't like it. They actually did not want this employment policy at all. They wanted to leave that to the free economy! We are in favour of strengthening the economy, but as politicians we have to lay down the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Koppler has already mentioned this in part. It must be noted that: Ms. Rauch-Kallat, whose staff was directly on the Board of Directors of "World Vision", is now absent from this debate. Habsburg, former EU member, was close to the ÖVP. A judicial procedure is pending. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where is the climate in this debate?]] Ms. Rauch-Kallat, together with other tops of the ÖVP, is at the Austrian Aid Agency. It is also about promotions and support. The wife of the Minister of Defence, Mrs Fassleven, also has a project! I come to Mrs Rauch-Kallat again because we had a gun discussion. The Greens have raised the issue of scrapping. I now ask a question regarding Mrs Rauch-Kallat: According to media reports, her husband is a arms dealer and is constantly meeting the Minister of Defence. To what extent is this questionable, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We from Social Democracy are not the defenders of "Euroteam"! They're supposed to defend themselves! It must be stressed, however, that by self-control the AMS has shown itself that there are problems in accounting. That is why we must not pretend that Mr Oellinger and others are the discoverers, because that was revealed to AMS-internally! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Col. Oillinger, you nod with your head. Let's talk openly, too. I know some greens who also have projects and are very frustrated, especially in Vienna, because they have not received the funding. That is the reason for the frustration and for the appearance against the SPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Chancellor Klima's policy and, I say again, the entire Federal Government is a great success! That's what I'm calling myself. We have managed to have tens of thousands of young people trained, thus preventing them from being on the streets, because that would be terrible for our society. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will do everything to prevent unemployment and create employment! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19931	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19950	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! It is probably undisputed – this is clear from today's debate and was already clear in the subcommittee – that the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, the labour market service under which it is subject to it, and, of course, the socialist group as a whole, with regard to measures to combat unemployment in Austria, are facing growing criticism. On the one hand, the positive effects of restructuring labour market management towards the labour market service have so far been seen only in approaches – it has also remained in their approaches, it is now going less there – and on the other hand, the efficiency of the use of the funds to combat unemployment is extremely doubtful, as is also the scandal about the activities and actions of "Euroteam". The sensibleness of the increased training measures, such as job coaching, in connection with the National Employment Action Plan, is quite easy to doubt. The suspicion is that measures serve more the purpose of improving unemployment statistics, especially now before the elections, as an increase in the opportunities for our unemployed in Austria and the integration into the labour market. Unemployed people attend training courses, although there is no offer on the labour market. So you put them in somewhere so they can have some employment, but they don't have the chance of a job. This is particularly true of a high percentage of long-term unemployed, with whom this is so. In the case of courses, they fall from unemployment statistics, where they no longer seem to appear. They are considered as new unemployed after these courses and trainings and are thus excluded from the statistics of the long-term unemployed. It is of course also interesting to question the budget planning of the labour market service. There is a clear link to the forthcoming elections: Financial resources for 1998 have been cut so that this year – in 1999, the year in which elections are due – more investment can be made. Additional measures, such as job coaching under the National Action Plan for Employment, are divided in such a way that they are precisely up to the National Council election on 3 March. In October, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Then there will also be those without work who have been hired for work in job coaching so far. The effectiveness of other training measures on the part of the AMS is constantly being challenged. Training measures on the initiative of the unemployed are simply not supported, but are often punished by the withdrawal of unemployment benefit. Unemployed people are also punished by the withdrawal of unemployment benefit and fall out of statistics if they are unable to take up employment because of the lack of facilities to accommodate the children they care for. There are many mothers who are losing their jobs and cannot accept a new job due to certain flexible working hours or the distance to the workplace. As far as the apprenticeship offensive is concerned, this initiative has always been presented as a success despite very high costs for the federal government. However, both a clear decline in the number of apprentices in the first year of teaching and the fact that thousands of jobseekers no longer appear statistically, because they are housed in courses and apprenticeship foundations, are hidden and "parked". Summa summarum must be said that the efficiency of the funds used on the apprenticeship market, measured by success, is to be considered to be very low. There is a lack of transparency. The suspicion that funds are being used in the framework of the two apprentices' offensives and in the award of EU funding and the creation of "Euroteam" are in need of information.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20002	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20023	Mr President. We are informed that there are non-domestic people here on the hearing gallery running tapes to put them into use against the immunity of Members. As President, I would like to ask you how you can use § 14 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, according to which the President is responsible for the provision of the stenograph service and any other images of the negotiations. Mr President. This is an obstacle to the freedom of Members, we say, "Euroteam" has not yet accommodated me in my career!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20054	For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20075	Without having to teach Mr Khol, I would like to point out to him that there is so-called professional and non-professional immunity. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] No one in this House can be held responsible in any form for what he explains in front of the House and does in the exercise of his mandate. As the Federal Constitution explicitly states: Every statement in front of this House is free of any responsibility. The excitement is therefore only very superficial.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20132	Mr Scheibner spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20153	Mr President. I am somewhat surprised by the communication by Mr Klobobmanns Khol, which is therefore: If it is true what he says – that even now tape recordings are made by this meeting and by Members' contributions to debates – I wonder how the Bureau of the National Council responded to a communication by Mr Graf at the time of the urgent question and how you have responded, for we had already for the first time indicated that Mr President-in-Office at the top of the press log – with which he has come, I do not know – is sitting with a tape and recording the speeches of Members. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Like the Westenthaler!]] I am asking for information on whether the Bureau has acted accordingly and, if so, in what way. If this is not to be clarified now, I am trying to interrupt the session and convene a presidential session, because I think that is a situation that cannot simply be taken away from.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20192	For business treatment: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20213	Mr President. In my contribution to the debate, I have already drawn your attention to the wording used by Mr Pearce, which is why he has a tape. Although this is not the case in the issue, it is stated in this wording:... to present further denunciations, lies and untruths in the original tone, not only after a copy of the Stenographical Protocol corrected by the Members immediately. [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when these uses come into force, we can use alleged writings of words or writings to be sued against the statements in the Stenographical Protocol, which can save the Stenographical Protocol here in this House. Then it's out of value.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20256	Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say the following: First: I didn't allow anyone to do any tape recording. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I have been made aware of this problem during the Presidency, which I have been working on since 9 p.m. I feel that the mood here in the house is such that you can believe me: It requires all my attention and strength to lead this meeting. I can't carry out any further investigations or anything else. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, I don't want to let myself in a scream. If you have a question, I'll give you an answer. If You don't want to get an answer, then you won't get an answer. Fourthly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Green Club has recently operated on the fact that you have recorded a debate from the speakers who exist throughout the House and that you have therefore spoken on the text of this debate. With this argument... – Or was it another group? [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: No!]] [[Abg. Mother: That was the ÖVP!]] [[Further calls.]] In any case, this argument has recently been used. I therefore believe that it is not necessary for me, during my presidency, to check whether anyone in this House is following this debate. The fact that the Stenographical Protocol is the only valid and authentic information on the course of the meeting is of course a matter of course. No reasonable man can have any doubt about that. It is nothing but the Stenographical Protocol authentic about the course of this sitting! – I do not have to point out Article 57 of the Federal Constitution. Now it seems reasonable to me to give the floor to Mr Dr. Feurstein. But if my colleagues want to, I am happy to interrupt the sitting and, instead of tomorrow morning or at another hour, which does not cost the time of Members, we can now make a presidential sitting. For business treatment: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20323	Mr President. I would just like to point out that I have put forward the request to clarify this situation. Again: At about 5 p.m., my group informed the Bureau that Mr Stahlpärer was sitting in the press log and cutting this meeting. His press release shows what he wanted to do with this cut. It seems that nothing has been done about it. That is a really important matter. I would ask you once again to interrupt the sitting and clarify this situation in a presidential way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20353	If you ask your colleague Count, he will confirm: To me, someone didn't make a request of this kind. [[Abg. Scheibner: To the Bureau!]] I ask that, if you have such wishes, you bring them to me. The fact that the matter is being examined is of course a matter of course. For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kohl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20386	Mr President. I would also like to ask you to see this request made by Mr Scheibner in the light of the letter received by my club colleague Steindl from the legal representative of Mr Stahlpärer. I do not need a presidential conference now, but please, Mr President, as a truer of the dignity of the House and the rights of Members to examine these things and to take steps.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20419	That's okay! We're going to do this, and we're going to investigate it. Apparently you also had contact with colleagues Neisser. I'll get in touch with him. Of course, we will proceed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. If there is consensus on this, I can give Mr Feurstein the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20449	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. In my contribution to the debate this afternoon, I gave a very factual opinion on the whole matter. But what has now been said from the SPÖ ranks I can and do not want to take note of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 1993, some friends met in Brussels and formed an association "Euroteam". One of these friends was Mr. Stuhlpahrer, one of the employees of Mrs. Hostasch, Mr. Gerstbauer, and one of these friends was also an employee of German Chancellor Klima, Mag. Drozda. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1995 these three friends and other friends with this association "Euroteam" collected orders and funding for labour market promotion in the order of 46 million schilling. I wonder what happened to these 46 million schillings in the following years. The use of this 46 million schilling has not been finally clarified to this day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary: The AMS Vienna has confirmed to us that the invoices are not correct. Ladies and gentlemen! The billings of "Euroteam" are incorrect. Money has been saved. The Court of Auditors will examine the matter because the Minister has made a request here. Ladies and gentlemen! Now this Gerald Gerstbauer, the employee of Mrs. Hostasch, is going to lawyer Dr. Zanger after 5 pm. Dr. Zanger writes to Deputie Mag. Steindl wrote a letter, a fax threatening him to take judicial action. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unheard of! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Unheard of!]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP: Unheard!]] Mrs. Minister! I would have expected you to distance yourself from this process of your employee. You didn't do that! Mrs Minister, I do not want to take note of that, and we do not want to see it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something. They have now indicated from the government bank that there has been no influence by Mr Gerstbauer on the award of contracts from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the "Euroteam". I have personal information – and I can confirm it – that Mr Gerald Gerstbauer has also influenced contracts directly and indirectly in 1997 and 1998, ladies and gentlemen. [[Embarrassment at the ÖVP.]] That's what trusted people have told us. We will explain in detail that this influence by Mr Gerstbauer has taken place. We cannot take note of the fact that people in your ministry are covered here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser:...Peat back Wolfgang Schüssel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected to be at least distanced from these practices. – This has not been done, and that is why I have spoken again. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Here I come back to the previous speaker from SPÖ: Of course, there were differences between us about what is to be done for apprentices and for youth employment. I would remind you of the government clause in Rust, where these differences were discussed very clearly and clearly. We wanted to take other measures. We have gradually insisted that our measures in the field of youth employment and the promotion of apprenticeships have been broken down. We have gradually brought about the legal changes. Mr Farnleitner is negotiating with Mrs Hostasch on the extension of teaching professions in these days, that we are getting more new apprenticeships. That's not yet enforced, and that's also a point. We always cooperate with our government partner. But I am slowly tired of continuing cooperation in this form, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I expect the willingness of cooperative cooperation to show what they are, ladies and gentlemen, honestly and correctly! This has not happened today, and I very much regret it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20544	Ladies and gentlemen! In order to ensure that as few stressful things as possible remain in space for too long, I make the following proposal: This debate will end in about a quarter of an hour at human discretion. Then Mr Neisser will replace me, and then we have a long list of speakers to the next item on the agenda. I invite the members of the Presidential Conference to my office for 23.15 a.m. without interrupting the meeting. There we can discuss things and create clarity. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20571	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Feurstein! That may already be – you're making an ordinary theatre donor there now –: You said it was enough for you now, and you're no longer ready to work together here. But when it comes to inviting at least the Federal Chancellor so that he can speak and answer here, all of you, as soon as it goes, walk in here in order to reject the opposition's requests only yes! This is also a bit of double-bedded and not really credible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Feurstein had it so fast!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democratic Party! You say you have nothing to do with the whole story. Mr Edler, I think, has said: This is not a matter of SPÖ, the "Euroteam" is not a SPÖ organization. - May be. Only: Then why do you defend these powers? If the President of the Chair is only by chance the apprentice officer of the Federal Chancellor, I ask you: Why do you defend such powers as they have been brought to light here today? Why do you allow Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the grounds that he cannot be present because he is supposed to be in Chicago for four weeks, but at the same time he is holding a press conference here in Vienna. Why do you let all this happen if you don't have anything to do with all this? Why is there something against it that is revealed or that it is being examined what role a Mr. Mock plays – of course, David Mock! – "by chance" press spokesperson of the Federal Chancellor, in which Causa played "Euroteam"? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: David Mock!]] Why – if you have nothing to do with all of this and if all these are just coincidences – do you oppose the fact that it is being clarified why a Mr. Jan Klima – even "at random" the son of Mr. Chancellor with the same name – does not comment on this? Why don't you tell me? Why should it not be strange that someone is an accountant in an association, who is supposed to know nothing of it and has not controlled anything for four years in an association that has collected 50 million schillings and has also provided funds for any activity? Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! I would like to believe it and also know that some of you – who, however, was not allowed to speak here today, or wanted to – have really been honest with the apprentices in the past. One or the other of you is really concerned about working for apprentices. But that must also give you an idea - only if you look at the naked figures, you have to think about it - and as a parliamentarian you should also have an interest in clarifying these efforts, finding out what happened to this money, and clarifying whether it was really necessary for apprenticeships to put this kind of action into practice. They know very well that between two and five free teaching places between two and five years ago have come to a job seeker. Within a short time, within a few years, there has been a total trend reversal in this area. Why don't you go down here and say: Yes, mistakes have happened here, and it has not been possible to give incentives to the economy to employ apprentices, here it has not been possible to cut down the bureaucracy, here it has not been possible to reverse this trend with truly targeted incentives!Unknown term type: "%s".? Let's discuss how to do better! Or it doesn't matter to you, not only what the 50 million schillings have been used for and wasted for "Euroteam", but also what the 3 billion schillings for – ladies and gentlemen: 3 billion schilling! – have been spent on the promotion of apprentices and whether this has not been the only tip of the iceberg in the "Euroteam"? What has been spent on these 3 billion schillings, Mr Brix, Mr Edler, Mr Riepl? Mr Brix, you said: We act there with unaudited figures. – I tell you the current figures about what happened after the 50 million schilling for "Euroteam" and after the 3 billion schilling for alleged apprenticeship promotions: In May 1999, according to labour market service figures, 17 000 job seekers were without a apprenticeship – 17 000 job seekers without a apprenticeship! – at a time when the school leavers of this year are going to the apprenticeship market! This is the situation, according to the SPÖ's supposed good policy, after 3 billion schillings of subsidies, after almost 50 million schillings for the "Euroteam", after the coincidences that the Chancellor's chairman of the chair has nothing to do with the fact that Mr David Mock, press officer of the climate, has nothing to do with it, and that Mr Jan Klima has no connection with all the history, but that all these funds have supposedly been fully invested! The result is: 17 000 young Austrians are without a teaching post! This should make you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! Do not imagine yourself in front of such people as Mr. Pearce, who only takes us around on the nose and has to tell us once what he has done with these funds! You should be interested in this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why did you wall off in the Subcommittee? Why was it not possible to invite the Federal Chancellor here, if everything is just a coincidence and if the Federal Chancellor does not do anything with all of this? Why? He once said that he was looking forward to clarifying all of this to the Committee! Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, but also those of the Austrian People's Party! Why did you not allow the Federal Chancellor to appear in committee – by agreeing to our request – and to appear here in Parliament today? These questions need to be addressed if you are making such a supposedly good apprenticeship policy: why? You don't want to discuss real measures here and why you don't want to have real information about what people were wasting these necessary funds for the promotion of apprentices. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to be accused that these alleged coincidences may not have been random, but quite calculated, system-immanent transactions. It's a shame that you haven't been able to jump over your own shadow to this day and up until now, people who seem to have come out of your dark circle to put in front of the curtain and say: We do not want to have anything to do with them, because we want to make some information, and then try to get these 17 000 young Austrians to become a teaching centre at last!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20638	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20660	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say once again to the Federal Chancellery: The contracts carried out through the Federal Chancellery are all subject to the Federal Procurement Act, and they all remain below the threshold. I have already recorded this in my previous remarks. Under this threshold, the contracts were either signed or awarded. I would like to say once again that there has been an exact execution of these orders in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How high is the threshold?]] I have already explained to you that this threshold is ECU 200 000. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Again for the protocol!]] I would like to say once again that it was the Federal Chancellor's concern to turn on the Court of Auditors to carry out a review of these contracts again and to set up a body which normally checks such operations in order to obtain objective information about this award of contracts. [[Abg. Oillinger: To win time!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why didn't he step in front of Parliament today?]] The second is: I would like to expressly note that this mandate was carried out in detail by officials of the Federal Chancellor's Office and that it has resulted in a correct order handling without any influence. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That doesn't even believe the SPÖ! They're so surprised!]] I think it is not a matter of linking the Chancellor with any irregularities or adapting him in any way. It is, of course, close or obvious that you try this in an election campaign. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] Especially in the Federal Chancellery there has been a correct execution of the orders. One should leave the objective facts where they are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third is: Since Mr Öllinger and also Mr Kier have tried here to move the main part of the contract to the Federal Chancellor's Office, I would like to say: That's not the case! In the Federal Chancellery, just over 3 million Schillings have been awarded, the main part has been handled in the Social Ministry. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ah!]] This was also confirmed by the Federal Minister. If there is talk of 46 million schilling here and it is added that about 3 million schillings have been awarded in the Federal Chancellor's Office, then it must be said that the main part has been handled in the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs. I just wanted to hold on to that to correct the dimensions. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: These are maneuvers! Fraud maneuvers!]] I would like to say the following to Mr Scheibner's debate on the subject. In 1996, we had 37,000 apprenticeships, in 1998 there were 39,000 apprenticeships and more than 3,000 young people in additional training places. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many were 1992 or 1993? Tell me!]] That is to say, we have 42 000 young people in training places. This is an improvement in the number of two years ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say that the number of 17 000 apprentices has been completely removed, since a balanced job-seekers' balance was reported in May or June. This balance sheet was balanced. In May, some 2,100 trainees were confronted with some 2,000 apprenticeships. This is a number that can be seen from the latest reports of the AMS.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20814	Mrs. Hostasch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20843	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner wanted to know how high the number of apprentices was in 1992. I can't answer the question about 1992 right now, but: In 1995 it was 37 300, 1996 it was 37 100, 1997 – you know that we speak of this year as an initiative year – 40 200, and in 1998 it was 39 050. It can therefore be seen that the initiatives of the Federal Government and the accompanying measures have provided additional impetus for teaching institutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But allow me a very clear answer to Mr Feurstein's statement. I am not aware of Mr Gerstbauer's letter, which you quote. I have heard about this today from your debate. Secondly, I would like to say once again that the staff of the Office of Ministers or of me did not receive any of the awards in the discussion. The Court of Auditors will determine the extent to which proceedings have not been carried out in accordance with law in the resolution and in the other procurement mode. All the documents available to me show that they have been in conformity with the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20886	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. [[Calls.]] I shall listen to it in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20916	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann, the State Secretary, said that the number of 17 000 job seekers I mentioned had been "abstained from the air". The balance sheet was "balanced", he claimed. – This claim is incorrect! I quote from the AMS labour market data of May 1999, where it says: Instantly available job seekers: 2 224; not immediately available job seekers – i.e. those who are "parked" in training courses and courses –: 14 737. – This makes up a total of almost 17 000 job seekers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, with May 1999, the immediately available apprenticeships are numbered with 2 208 and the non-available apprenticeships with 5 570. So 17 000 job seekers face 7 700 businesses or apprenticeships! These are, in fact, the statistical figures you are trying to cover up here!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20964	Mr Kostelka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kostelka on his report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20986	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Scheibner – and many others here in the House – you have been trying for a few hours to make the German Federal Government's apprenticeship offensive consistent. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're trying it yourself!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Only for your information: What you have spent as a special training is nothing but a part of normal schooling, namely the ninth school year, the year of polytechnic training. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] What the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, looks like this: Since 1990, the number of apprenticeships has fallen permanently. In 1996, the Federal Chancellor launched the apprenticeship offensive, and its success is a year-old rise and within two years the achievement of the figures as five years ago. – This is the success of our apprentice offensive! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will not let you do that, so much so that you can make an effort to do so. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are there also the 24 "student-student-students" there?]] Second comment: Ladies and gentlemen, you have been trying for a few hours to present the Social Democratic Party to the Socialist Group of this House as if it had rejected all the requests for control, for hearing, for information and so to speak, with the steam roller. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] – True is the opposite! For example, they called the name "Jan Klima". – Everyone here in the House, everyone in this Republic, every journalist knows why you do this: because that is a well-known name. But all this has nothing to do with the young person who is trying to build a career. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that, at the request of an opposition group, the load of Jan Klima was abandoned, that he was invited to the written opinion – and that you were satisfied by the opposition with this written opinion, but now to say that we would have prevented control! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... only 46 million schilling! Really little!]] One last example, ladies and gentlemen: We will have to talk about what Mr President-in-Office has done. That is, if it is true – and I do not think it is out of dispute – in any case a break in the house order of the House, and I am on your side when it comes to the demand to make it order. I am also on your side when it comes to the fact that everything is unexplained. The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister did not wait for your call to direct the Court of Auditors to control, but they did so on their own initiative. Just, ladies and gentlemen: We have not rejected the cargo of Mr Pearce. We have only pointed out that Mr President-in-Office of the Council is in the United States – and then you have withdrawn the request. [[Call the ÖVP: But unfortunately he was there!]] That's double-beddedness. [[Abg. Scheibner: But he was there!]] Even withdraw a request for consultation, but make the accusation that we would have prevented control! That's double-beddedness!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21104	Mr Dr Kier spoke for the second time. Mr deputies, you still have a speaking time of 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21126	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would not have spoken a second time if the debate in the final phase had not already taken a very unpleasant turn. I thought we'd go on. We had dealt with the urgent question, the emotions had already cooled down a little after that, and now is being pretended to be nothing. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! We have already asked for another time, Mr President, to load Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Only the one day you told us he was in America, we said: We will not be making a decision now if it is in America! But at the next meeting we requested it again – at one of the next meetings – and there he was also in Vienna: [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: At the night!]] [[Call the SPÖ: At the last!]] There he held a press conference at the same time as we were sitting in committee. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Then you wouldn't have withdrawn it!]] Mr Kostelka, we then asked for it again. Only at the one session that took place when it was claimed that he was real in the USA, we said: Well, willfully, if someone is not physically available, we will not make any request. – That was the situation in the committee. Then, on the same day that we had a meeting and the cargo was denied, Mr President-in-Office of the Council gave a press conference. There, by the way, he has distributed very different documents than he has provided them to the Committee; you may have noticed that. Please stop by the Socialist Group, if anyone attacks you with an overwhelming tendency, and you do not even ignore all the factual arguments I have put forward here – even with a strong focus! I'll tell you: That's what makes me sad! You stay honest, you confess to innocence, you put your fingers on the wound, and you say – read You are my dissenting opinion, I have not dictated it from Jux and Tollery! –: It is strongly recommended that this should also be examined in depth. The prosecutor's office should examine this in the context of a preliminary investigation or preliminary investigation, since the Court of Auditors' investigation is not sufficient. That still doesn't mean I'm talking to someone who's guilty! But they ignore this because it is not malignant because it respects the presumption of innocence, and you are exploring that someone who is constantly trying to remain objective and objective has the feeling that it is now really slow to go into the depths of this case. Ignore that! If someone attacks overwhelmingly, then you're wrong and you're saying, I have been wronged – scandal! I think that is a political mistake. But I stress once again that neither the Chancellor of the Federal Republic nor his son were at any time – at least not by our group – thrown. But it will be allowed to say from this pult: If you avoid the High House in such phases, you're hurting yourself! – You must acknowledge that! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If climate is the invincible chancellor, who, hardly entering the stage, speeds up the number of apprentices, then why does he not come here in his radiant armor, as winner at the apprentice front? – She doesn't look so rosy, you know that very well, because "surprisingly" a new vintage occurs each year and you don't create an artificial increase in the apprenticeships without further thought. But if the economy jumps, the number of apprenticeships also increases. That, in turn, would not be the deserve of the Chancellor. That's why I'm saying: Those who take their mouths so full, who concentrates on decorating the expenses well – and "Euroteam" was a dispensing decoration piece by friends of friends of friends, what you know very well, and not very efficiently – he must not wonder if he is taken one day at a time. What "Euroteam" has done was to create 24 apprenticeships! Your euphemistic statistics do not include 24 teaching places at all. Take the criticism, even if it is sometimes only silent, but serious! Take it seriously! I learn from such debates: It will have to be said more clearly that your fear that something we have not even seen will obviously be very great, for otherwise you would not scream so loud.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21191	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Lukesch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21212	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, allow me to express here: I am deeply disappointed by your remarks! [[Ah! Call at the SPÖ.]] Don't you remember what's going on here? – We are experiencing a drama of parliamentarianism! We experience that a secretary of a Federal Minister may threaten a delegate from our ranks with complaints by a chief attorney – and the SPÖ does not say a word about it! [[Call the SPÖ: They are not possible!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Of course! Because they're not possible!]] We experience how Mr. Pearce, who is not only naughty, but also stupid – it has been quoted as the corresponding constitutional article – can make tape recordings here without controls, which he would like to use – as he threatens – to complain against the Members of this House! And none and none of the SPÖ comes down and says: We do not allow this disassembly of parliamentarianism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How to train – pardon! – Your young people in the concept of democracy? That's where I warn you: Today this is still a category of shortcomings in the field of "Euroteam". It is not about the Youth Employment Initiative as a whole. Today it is an inadequacy of Euroteam. Of course, it is unpleasant, but the head of the labour market Serivce, Buchinger, said it in committee: Chair priest was the "retarder and contemplator" in all these actions. Today, Mr Buchinger, this problem with the PROFESSIONET, the billing units, the hours that have been reported somewhere in the output, but have not arrived anywhere, was all very confusing for the AMS – only through a conversation with the Directorate-General V in Europe, which units are actually there – and he is sorry that he has not already been able to inform the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Subcommittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oh, my God!]] Well, Mr Buchinger's expert quality is to be questioned here, but I do not want to adapt him. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But I would ask you, as a coalition partner, to go down here now and say that he does not allow Members of this House to be covered and threatened by complaints, and he does not allow it if it comes from people who are near the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Yes!]] There is an old definition of democracy, which I am not your opinion, but I will fight until the last breath because you can say your opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] [[Abg. Silhavy: But this applies to other people, not only parliamentarians!]] – I hope you follow this view of democracy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Stichtpfärr was asked to take note of the following: We are not going to let our Franz Steindl shoot us out, nor are any other Members who are free-elected to exercise their mandate here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21341	Mrs Apfelbeck has reported an actual correction. – Please start with the facts you want to correct, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21365	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am correcting Mr Kostelka, who has said here that we have withdrawn the cargo request for chair-pears and would now complain that he is not here, and that is double-poured. The right thing is: As President of the Standing Subcommittee, I was told by the Social Democrats that Mr Stichtpearferrer was in Chicago for a month and we should consider what would cost if he had to be flown back now, and the President of the House would also have to do so. [[Ah! Call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This month!]] That is why we have withdrawn this request: because we did not want to cause even more costs to the taxpayer! That was the reason!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21420	Mrs Petrovic has now been reported to the House. Mrs. Doctor, the rest of your club's speaking time is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21442	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In the short term, two points. First: Klubobmann Kostelka has suggested that the name of some young people in the dark circle of "Euroteam" should no longer be mentioned. We therefore assume, Mrs Bundesminister, that the auditor of the "Euroteam" group was Mr. Hase. Maybe the name of the Federal Chancellor is also "hase"? Second point: Mrs. Federal Minister! They said it had already been clarified in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. ==References== July, but writes the head of the AMS in the now third launch of the AMS – I literally quote Herbert Buchinger –: "I am sorry that I have not been able to give this information to the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. However, my experts and I have, unfortunately, taken longer to realize that the consultation hours provided under PROFESSIONET are a problem for the DRA" - the average unit of account for expenditure, in short DRA. [[Call to the liberals: This is a dradiwaberl, not a DRA!]] And by the way, it says: "The DRA is just so confusing in itself." - Quote. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oh, look here!]] But this confusion has not prevented Mr Buchinger from paying out millions! I can only say, Mrs Federal Minister: "DRA-ra, DRA-ra!"
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21488	There is still a second speech by Mr Kostelka. You have a speaking time of 17 minutes at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21509	Mr Lukesch! You have raised questions of parliamentarianism, and I am very sensitive there. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I have not answered these questions – and I do not want to teach you – because something that has been happening since 1. In October 1920 it was clarified that it was not necessary to clarify this point. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I already said that!]] Article 57, par. 1 of our Constitution [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You should read this to Mr. Pearce!]] "The members of the National Council may never be held accountable only by the National Council for the votes taken in the exercise of their profession, because of the oral or written statements made in that profession." – This is the call for order and the call on the President’s case. [[Abg. Scheibner: It is not yet justified that it is tried!]] This house cannot make nobody mouth dead; there I am fully on your side.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21586	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21607	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too wish to speak to Mr Lukesch on his last contribution to the debate, which is why, Mr Luke, because I would have liked to be very pleased if, for example, you would have found a few words in the Causa Lassing that Mrs Petrovic and I were massively threatened by the Naintscher mineral plants. – But you didn’t, because at the time it was about your minister. I would just ask you today not to go out of a situation in which someone simply wants to record something from the gallery in a public session, as if, therefore, parliamentarianism in Austria were to flow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Liberal Champion!]] What you have been quoted, Mr Luke, has you heard anyway? However, I say to you that we Liberals would be pleased if more people in Austria had such a keen interest in the debates in the National Council that they came here in person in order to take up everything. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Painful, embarrassing!]] But their statements do not lead to the increase in the number of people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21682	Ladies and gentlemen! There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the report. [[Subsequent calls to SPÖ and ÖVP as well as to the liberals.]] I ask you to calm down now because we are going to vote. – Mr Gaugg, Member of the Commission. Would you be so kind and go to your place? We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG in 2044 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this notice to have a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. [[Ironic cheerfulness in the liberals in view of the positive voting behaviour of the ÖVP.]] . This report has been largely taken note of. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down now, because we are now voting on a further request, and we are voting on the request from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of his report in 2044. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Activity Report (III-157 of Supplements) for the 1997 Administrative Year (2070 of Supplements) 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the follow-up to the Court of Auditors' Activity Report (To III-157 of Supplements) for the 1997 Administrative Year (2071 of Supplements) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Report (III-170 of Supplements) on average incomes for 1996/1997 in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 para. 4 Remuneration Restriction Act (2072 of Supplements) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report (III-109 of the Supplements) on the outcome of its collection of average income and the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the field of the public economy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1995 and 1996 (2073 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21795	We now come to the points 20 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mrs Apfelbeck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21822	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The Court of Auditors has summarised its audit activities as each year in a comprehensive activity report or supplement. I would like to thank the officials of the Court of Auditors for this, and I ask you, Mr President, to inform your House of this too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should also like to thank you, Mr President, for your comprehensive and competent explanations in the Court of Auditors Committee. The position of the Court of Auditors as an independent control body of the state gesture is in Austria – thank God! – undisputed. The efforts of the opposition to expand its test competence have so far always failed with the resistance of the rulers. The competence of the Court of Auditors should, inter alia, be provided for in its control activities in such a way that accompanying control is installed in the event of long-term planning and can therefore be corrected in good time. Failures were also shown in this activity report. I would like to address some of them briefly, for example those in connection with the music college in Graz. In it many university professors teach for a few students. This would be very commendable. But there are also professors who do not have to train students. The taxpayer pays for himself at the Graz Music University professors who do not train students! In the course of three piano classes, including the students from the Oberschützer Expositur, the Grazers did not provide a single graduate in three piano classes from 1991/92 to 1995/96, in a violin class not a single graduate, in a violin cello class not a single graduate, in a double class not a single graduate and in a church music class no single graduate – that is not what I say, ladies and gentlemen, but the Court of Auditors – and in four other classes only one exitr was obtained. The taxpayer thus held eleven university professors and received four entire graduates! The university – I quote the Court of Auditors – "announces talks with the relevant class leaders". - Fine. So the university did not seem to notice at all before the Court of Auditors that there were no graduates! The main thing, the monthly cash receipt, the monthly salary of the professors is right! And, ladies and gentlemen, he was right! The Federal Ministry says that – quoted by side 255 of the report –: Service law does not include any obligation on the extent of education. - Quote. – For this reason, the professors did not accept students, but took secondary jobs – understandably, because nothing to do would lead to frustration – and that of secondary employment, which often corresponded to another primary activity, says the Court of Auditors; also read on page 255. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a scandal that a person has a second salary with an activity, although he does not work for the first activity! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Court of Auditors also calculated an average of 15 000 to 20 000 S for an hour of education done! But there were also at Mozarteum in Salzburg between 1993/94 and 1996/97 – Mr deputies, I am sorry, I have no more speaking time – six ordinary university professors, who each one semester received an exemption from service in order to do the work they were actually employed for. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: What?]] [[Abg. Wabl: If it is well prepared...!]] The taxpayer has to pay 4.1 million schilling each year! But not enough with it: On page 107, the Court of Auditors also examines the chapter "EU funding in the area of the Chamber of Agriculture". The Federal Ministry transferred the management and control of EU support for our farmers to the Chambers of Agriculture, so that they had to play promoters and support control at the same time. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is the new oppression of farmers, is a dependent, a forced commitment to the ÖVP! But watch out from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That the Chamber makes this unprofitable is not true! Because this funding process is, of course, carried out through the bank accounts of the Chambers – not I say, but the Court of Auditors – and thus chamber funds and grants are mixed into an account – that is what the Court of Auditors says again. On the questions, on which accounts, to which interest rates and to whom these interest rates are credited, I am still waiting for an answer today! The Federal Minister said that interest would be granted to the board – there would be an old agreement. But since the Chamber is always paying late, the Chambers are enriching at the expense of those who should actually be promoted, ladies and gentlemen. And that's the scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The work reports, the Committee's deliberations - I am speaking from the experience of my 11 years of activity in the Court of Auditors - have shown that, in the case of shortcomings in administrative procedures, there is more – but more than – a willingness to improve in the areas covered by criticism. However, if these are political decisions criticised by the Court of Auditors, they will be defended even if the resulting misdemeanors have long been made manifest. Unfortunately, party membership has an impact on the behaviour of Members: They are not willing to accept the criticism of the Court of Auditors when it concerns the seat of a member of the government of their party. At the end of my work here, I would like to ask the Members of the Government Party to know that, in the sense of the traditional division of powers, Parliament and the Members have the task of controlling the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Members of this House should finally be aware of their role in the control function. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21924	Mr Dr. Lukesch came to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! Let me express my express thanks to the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff at the beginning of my brief speech. As an instrument of control, efficiency and efficiency improvement in our country, the Court of Auditors has also done a whole lot of work in these activity reports. I thank the staff and, at the head, their president! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also glad that I am not only able to express my thanks verbally, but also to point out, Mr President, that in the last BDG-Novelle, the improved creation of the Court of Auditors, as part of its means of transport, was also enforced by us. The Court of Auditors has always deserved this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the fullness of the findings of the Court of Auditors' report for 1997 I would like to address only two areas. First of all, I would like to mention the audits carried out by the Ministry of the Interior on general legal and administrative matters relating to civil service. In doing so, the Court of Auditors comes to a very interesting statement; everyone can read it. It first points out that there are no directives or priorities for the assignment of civil servants in the various areas. This also leads to an intrusion of the costs or subsidisation of the receiving institutions. The Court of Auditors then finds – and this is also very interesting – that all organisational and regulatory preparations for the extraordinary civil service are currently missing. The Ministry of the Interior had not done this work. As a Tyrolean, I can only say: Shame! The second natural disaster has already occurred with us this year. That is why we would very much need well-trained civilians for the protection of disasters and the use of disasters! At present, however, we cannot call them up because, for example, no relevant directives, regulations, implementations with the disaster services of the federal states are organized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the context of the Civil Service Act, the Court of Auditors also suggests that, in view of the fact that it has been repeatedly updated since 1986, a re-announcement should be made by the Ministry of the Interior for the sake of legal certainty. The last two findings that the extraordinary civil service is missing and that there is no re-announcement, the Ministry of the Interior answers with an interesting counter-expression, Mr Gaál, from January 1998 – I quote: It was necessary to wait until the question of continuing compulsory military service was clarified. - Quote. That means: Since the beginning of 1998, the SPÖ has apparently been thinking of abolishing military service. This impression is given because it does not follow the mandate of the Civil Service Act and does not make preparations for the extraordinary civil service. – That’s interesting! Already a year and a half ago, the SPÖ and the Ministry of the Interior – I say it carefully – were for a professional! Faced with this statement, the Minister of the Interior said: This is the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. – Actually, he's the boss, but let's just leave it that way! – There are different opinions in the SPÖ. – I know that too. – Furthermore, he is himself for the continuation of the general military obligation. It is nevertheless remarkable that a Minister of the Interior announced a year and a half ago that one was actually in doubt whether the general obligation to do so could or should be maintained in Austria. I would like to put it this way: The NATO proponents have apparently prevailed in the Ministry of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! On the second point I would like to ask the President of the Court of Auditors to help. Mr President. Some comments about the research centre Seibersdorf are also included in your activity report. The examination period went until 1996; in 1997 it was discussed that this research centre had major financial problems, but in some way it recovered, in particular through exceptional grants from the Minister of Science. I am also in favour of the research centre Seibersdorf doing what it was created for, namely every schilling it gets to use for research. This is the only large-scale research facility that Austria has. However, in recent weeks I have had to experience that this research centre Seibersdorf has financed party propaganda for social-democratic government members in the form of major inserates in newspapers, although the Supervisory Board of this society has spoken out against this action. Mr President of the Court of Auditors, the problem is now: Although the ÖVP has asked the Minister of Science twice in this context, because this is a waste of public research resources for us, we have not been through medially. I say: for obvious reasons! Where were these big ads? In the media! The use of the Court of Auditors instrument with its regular audits is the only way to help Members. I would like to draw a personal conclusion: We, too, are not infallible here in the National Council. We have transferred to the Court of Auditors the preparation of a general income report in connection with the referee law. This is expensive and very complicated; it could be made easier by means of secondary statistics. We should consider a revision of the referee law concerning the preparation of the general income report. Finally, I agree with a personal word. For nine years I worked in the best way with the staff and the President of the Court of Auditors as a member of the Court of Auditors. Under President Fiedler, the former President Broesigke’s speech was clearly rebutted, namely that the dog’s hut is for the dog and the Court of Auditors for the cat’s. – Under President Fiedler, the Court of Auditors is not for the Katz’! We want to confirm this to him!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22050	I call Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22080	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Državni Secretary! Gospod predsednik računskega sodišča! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! You will understand that, since this is one of my last speeches, I will confine myself to a chapter, namely the examination of the Federal Chancellor's Office/Volksgruppenförderung by the Court of Auditors. Mr President. I too would like to start my speech with a thanksgiving. I believe that the Court of Auditors is a very important body and that it is doing effective work under your leadership, especially in this sensitive area of popular support. Mr President. I would like to thank you for the very precise examination, and I am pleased to be able to announce that, so to speak, what is also stated in the Court of Auditors' report, namely that the groups and groups of peoples' organizations are dealing with very carefully with the sparse resources they receive and that there are hardly any substantial concerns at all. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, there is very massive criticism by the Court of Auditors of the Federal Chancellery. For more than ten years, the Court of Auditors has held that there should be more careful, more precise and timely disbursement and suggests that the groups can work out and carry out annual projects. – However, the implementation of all of this is not possible in view of the birth in the Federal Chancellery! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a difficult treatment of groups of organisations and committee members. I would like you not to think that this is about millions or billions: The groups in Austria get about as much as "Euroteam" got from the federal side; funnyly, it's about the same sum! [[Abg. May. Main: Less!]] In view of this, it is, of course, very unfortunate that money will be spent easily on the one hand, on the other hand less spent on the groups from year to year. I would just like to talk about a few things and then make some political statements. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Before midnight?]] Yes, of course I will close before midnight before it becomes quite dark in this state! I've done it before! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellery often even gives up ridiculousness. There are events in which the Federal Chancellery really gives up its ridicule. For example, the acquisition of Roma musical instruments is promoted. Those who receive musical instruments, of course, pass them on, because neither the President nor the Secretary nor the Cassier play an instrument. Therefore, they pass them on to a music group that plays for the pleasure of the people, but often also against entry. The Federal Chancellor's Office then came up with the idea that a wrongful transmission of two guitars, a trumpet and a drums had occurred, and, as you can say, made a big Bahöl, what the horrific ones are doing, and demanded the musical instruments back. The Roma say: That's not reasonable, we make a deposit or pay for every appearance. The Federal Chancellery says: No, you have to return the instruments or pay the full sum for them. The full sum would be 120 000 p. However, everyone knows that after four years the instruments are only worth more than 40 000 S to a maximum of 60 000 S. Nevertheless, the Federal Chancellery insists on it. This is so far as it is required by the chairman of the Roma association that he brings the instruments with his car to the Federal Chancellery; there they are photographed. The officials are standing around. Finally, the Chief Musician of the Roma is asked to play so that he shows that everything is still okay and that the strings do not already create. He refuses to do so, of course, and says: I'm not going there to play something for those in the Federal Chancellery! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - They laugh at it! I know that this sounds ridiculous, but so do adult officials in the Federal Chancellor's Office, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Do they have nothing else to do?]] No, obviously they have nothing to do! For example, there has been a situation where a delegation from a convention abroad and from the West to the South Railway Station has been told: You can't drive by taxi, you have to drive the tramway! – The members of the delegation say: For five people, the tramway tickets cost more money than if we were driving the taxi; and besides, we had to drive the taxi, otherwise we would have missed the train because it was a late one. – Ladies and gentlemen! Such discussions are being held, and I could tell you more about such flowers! Ladies and gentlemen! No longer to laugh, but it is very embarrassing when the Federal Chancellery violates the data protection. I have submitted to the Data Protection Commission the documentation of a case in this regard, and the Federal Chancellery has been sentenced because it has misused data! I thought that, after this event, the Federal Chancellery, the officials and the politics at home, will remorse and say: There's something wrong. – Ladies and gentlemen! However, the opposite was the case: They have continued to use the membership lists and newspaper subscription lists of associations. If I'm the subscriber of a newspaper, I don't want you to pass my data on either. Where are we going, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! And that is also written in a contract! Federal Chancellor Klima has confirmed this in a letter to the President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen. And that's no longer ridiculous! If this happens in a people's group, which was also counted in the Nazi era and had to deliver lists, then it is no longer ridiculous, but embarrassing in the truest sense of the word, namely, finally embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen! But now I would like to finish politically. It is quite unpleasant for me to repeat the whole of the malaise which I have already presented in committee, which neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State could dissuade. And I also abandon a personal matter that also goes in the direction of data protection issues. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the ethnic groups want to plan and submit projects for years. It is well known that it is extremely difficult to get through projects. Mr President. We also had a discussion on this subject in the Court of Auditors' Committee, and you will remember it. On the one hand, people are told: You also need to make something commercial in your projects, so that you can also get a contribution from sponsors. On the other hand, the Federal Chancellery notes that they also generate revenue, and they must show it. There are then even written questions to the neighbouring countries about how much the ethnic groups get from the neighbouring country! This is a disastrous situation, which the Court of Auditors at least partially pointed out. Mr President. This has had the effect – and for this I thank you and not the Federal Chancellor's Office – that at least this year the amounts have been assigned to us in such a timely manner that we can plan a certain year. Dear friends! I would also like to make a political conclusion, and, Mr Khol, above all I would like to address you. You are the main cause of the fact that all the applications in a subcommittee are, as it were, in a black hole. It is embarrassing for me to tell you that because we have been connected for years and you know this problem! But you play your private political game on the back of the groups! And that's disgraceful, I'll tell you quite clearly! Many people tell me: Karl, you're a real Michael Kohlhaas! – I say: Better a Michael Kohlhaas than a hare of khol! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] My requests for press promotion have been put to the Subcommittee! My request concerning Article 19 of the Basic Law has also been put into the Subcommittee! My applications for the Radio Law now die a different death, so to speak, if not colleagues — hopefully! – act differently when you did, Mr Khol! And this is very embarrassing to me! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to congratulate the head of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on this. It is embarrassing that you are among the people who are not willing to develop popular law! Because you should feel really connected to these peoples in view of the knowledge you have about them and their problems! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Cultural Treaty in Slovenia!]] What can Hungary in Burgenland do if Slovenia does not sign the Cultural Treaty?- Oh, my God! You have to explain that to me. What can the Slovaks, the Czechs and the Croatians do to ensure that Slovenia does not sign the Treaty?- Oh, my God! – That’s exactly the policy you can’t like, dear friend! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I say goodbye here today, especially on this question. I will no longer be a member of the National Council during the next legislative period. But I hope that the groups will find more understanding of their problems in future than this year when I was able to work again in this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22179	Mr Brix has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22200	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! As always at this time, the plenary is concerned with the Court of Auditors' activity report on the period of two years ago, i.e. the year 1997. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I mean, not the clock, but the season. At the end of a parliamentary year, the Assembly is dealing with this activity report. Of course, such an activity report, which has been two years ago, also has its problematic pages, as the Court of Auditors' report can be seen on various issues with fore and counter. In advance, I would like to say: This exact report, with which we too can not only live well, but also work politically in order to make further improvements for the benefit of people in this country, provides the Ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors! I would therefore like to thank your colleagues on behalf of my group very much for this work, Mr President Fierce. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make a brief point of a problem which the Court of Auditors has shown in the longer term. As we know, in Austria there are controlled posts in which there are no major problems. One of these controlled posts, but in recent times there have been very problems, was the airport Vienna. To this end, the highly respected journalist Alfred Worm writes in the newspaper of the architects "constructive" of June/July 1999 – I quote literally –: "Only I don't want to go to the Clinch with the Court of Auditors, which I otherwise very much appreciate. But this time I do. The audit report on the conduct of Airport AG is Mumpitz." This highly regarded journalist Alfred Worm wants to say that not every criticism is true just because it is expressed as criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the key points in this 1997 activity report was criticism of the Minister of Defence and the defence of the state, especially in that, Mr Federal Minister, when the Court of Auditors found that there were not only shortcomings in the training system, but also shortcomings in the equipment of the Austrian soldiers. In this context, I am thinking in particular of a device that is very close to our heart, because it is still Austrian origin and we Austrians can actually be proud of this good device. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Federal Minister! I believe we should not have bought foreign, old tanks, but you should have given an order in time for the new Ulan shooter tank to the Steyr Daimler Puch plants. Now 112 tanks have been commissioned by you, and, contrary to numerous false claims, 100 percent of Austrian value added are additionally guaranteed, thus ensuring numerous domestic, Austrian jobs for a long time. With the purchase of 112 Ulan fighter tanks from Steyr-Daimler-Puch, which you finally made in June 1999, you have not only ensured that our men have better and safer materials in the military, but also secured jobs in Austria. In addition, you have also ensured that the Steyr special vehicle construction is obliged to export Austrian products worth over 2 billion schilling without a turnover tax and is therefore added even more Austrian value added. Federal Minister! I would ask you to take into account in the future the criticism of the Court of Auditors and in case we need tanks again – there will be other plans in your drawer – to buy Austrian products, because Austrian jobs are also secured with the purchase of Austrian products!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22271	The next speaker is Mr Wabl, with a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22292	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! There are now a lot of reports. But if I start with thanks to the esteemed Court of Auditors officials and above all to the President, then my speaking time would not be enough. In addition, in view of the many praises I now have the impression that Christmas is once again for the Court of Auditors today! But I think they deserve this praise too, because all too many reports hardly see the light of the public, and it should be a pleasure for a Court of Auditors if certain things are also worked out verbally and medially. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Court of Auditors has never been "for the cat" under Broesigke, because the preventive effect of a report of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors itself is essential for democracy and for a functioning administration. The operation of the media is important in this context. Mr. Lukesch! I share your pain with the fact that the influence of advertising campaigns on certain media places is very massive. But a Court of Auditors report can only really work if it also sees the light of the public and benefits from the variety of media. After Kelsen, a great Austrian, democracy can only really work if things in the public are argued and analyzed and constructive conclusions drawn. I think that this is in any case, sometimes more, sometimes less, in connection with the Court of Auditors. In my opinion, the President of the Court of Auditors has usually provided good reports, but not always. Sometimes I have had the impression – allow me to make this comment, because I will no longer speak on the issue of the Court of Auditors in this House! . that political moods are expressed in Court of Auditors reports more than elsewhere. I believe that the Court of Auditors should resist such temptations, regardless of the moods and media. The Court of Auditors' reputation is very high because of your excellent work, Mr President, and because of the excellent work done by officials and officials, and I believe that this reputation should not even be played down by the appearance! I have the impression, for example, of the report on the Semmering base tunnel, that the strong medial drum fire has colored the report a little. And there are other things I didn't like very much. But essentially, I can tell you: You have done excellent work, which was certainly much better than mine as chairman of the Court of Auditors, but I had a different job. Mr Lukesch, on your comments, on this brave defence of the free word and this attack against the government partner, I can only say: Shut up! Mr Steindl, too, was really great, I was quite touched! If I had not known that Mr Klima is from the SPÖ and that Mrs Hostasch is from the SPÖ, I would have thought it would have broken out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I know that things often happen in preselection times! The coalition peace and the coalition agreements are getting a little messed up! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: With intention!]] Then it often becomes very difficult, because then this alliance, this "equity of terror", starts to crumble a little! I always admire the unhappiness of the Social Democrats. I must say, as you get the power, that's really lonely class-se! I understand why you can stay in Austria for so long! [[Abg. Koppler: If you work, you make mistakes, of course!]] I admire this sovereignty, as you can see over every dirt patch of the coalition partners and still have a clear look forward, according to the motto: Comrades, we march, we get the power! [[Abg. Koppler: I mean something completely different!]] Mr Koppler! They will not speak of mistakes in connection with "Euroteam". [[Abg. Koppler: We're talking about something else now!]] That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Koppler calls "Euroteam"...!]] [[Call to the Freeman: He's always talking about something else!]] Professor Lukesch! You know, it would be so beautiful and it would be such a holiday for this House if you refer to it here in connection with a report in which a member of the government is criticized by your side, by the ÖVP, for example to the Minister you very much valued by you. I personally respect him, but I think he is a minister in this position in the wrong place. Why don't you ever criticize what happened in connection with the federal army? . I have never heard a word of criticism from you in this respect, although you would be obliged to do so in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. In connection with the criticism of the Court of Auditors, it has been clearly formulated, although very important, because Mr President-in-Office of the Council and his officials are very important. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Especially with the German army in connection...!]] In connection with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I have never read such a prominent formulation as that in this Court of Auditors report. If I look at what this report says, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: It is impressive how beautifully a Court of Auditors can formulate it so that it does not hurt very much. [[The speaker is looking for a text point.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I still find it; of course, now I have it. That's what it says: If the legislator wanted the possibility of leaving the labour force of officials to work, it would be necessary to create a clear legal regime in order to eliminate the current legal ambiguities. - Quote. This statement, 'existing ambiguities', I think is very brave from the Court of Auditors. But this has not necessarily been honoured by you. You could have tabled at least one motion for a resolution. But with regard to the wording that the amount of the findings to be made would be cost-effective, you have not even said, let alone the brave word of the French revolutionary once again. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's tomorrow! ==References== July!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Today the 14th is Holger Bauer. July!]] Mr Lukesch! At that time, a year ago, in an APA broadcast, you shaped the bold sentence [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] The chairman of the Court of Auditors has lost all confidence because he urged the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to settle his debts in connection with the election campaign, for Mr Waldner, whom he had as campaign leader on his team. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to invite the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors to make a statement here again, which would have been the appropriate price for this man, who was in the election team of the ÖVP, the President of the European Parliament...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22449	Deputies! Excuse me, your speaking time is over. My bell sign paid for you. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Wabl: I don't know what time you meant! The volunteer, the one I'm ordered to do?]] No, it's the blockage time that falls on your group. [[Abg. Wabl: I'm only talking 5 minutes!]] I've been here for seven minutes. Your speaking time is over, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Wabl: That's something I don't very much appreciate in this house: that you can't talk anymore! I think that this is democracy...!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Wabl.]] The technology works. It says here: 7 minutes. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is the curse of evil deeds of your consent!]] [[Abg. Wabl: That is where you have agreed.]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Stampler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22553	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to take a brief look at some of the individual reports in the Court of Auditors' activity report. First of all, I call EU funds in the field of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! I can say that this report gives an excellent witness to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry and his team at the Ministry. It points out that the implementation of European standards has been exemplary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Who will submit my request now?]] While other ministries have their difficulties in implementing the administrative reform, the Ministry of Agriculture is already a step further. The AMA has already been certified according to ISO and cut off perfectly. The implementation of electronic funding through database was much faster than required. There have never been any difficulties in billing the applications for support with the EU. The European Court of Auditors also assessed the work of paying agencies in a similar way. The improvement proposed by the Court of Auditors, particularly in the revision department, has been implemented. All in all, as a teacher, I would say: Note "very good" for our Minister of Agriculture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention - because I believe that this should also be said - that the Chambers of Agriculture provide an indispensable service in the granting of grants and are therefore not, as some claim, superfluous. In my view, it is important to have these decentralised structures when it comes to funding. A second topic is the Musikhochschule Graz. As a steirer, I am very glad - I must say - that we have such an institution in Graz with such an excellent reputation in Germany and abroad. The proportion of foreigners already shows that this university is doing excellent work. That, as the Court of Auditors reports, nearly twice as many students every year want to register as they can be admitted, I see as a sign of the quality of this institute. The Court of Auditors' criticism in some areas has been taken up in most cases. Thus, the spatial situation was improved by a new construction. The spatial offer is still to be increased. The criticised rents for the premises, especially the Palais Brandhof, in principle correspond to the average; in some cases they are even below the average. On the criticised area of fire protection, I would like to say that several visits have already taken place, that the fire sections have been manufactured, additional fire detectors have been installed and that automatic fire smoke ventilation has also been produced in the stairwells. Certainly, the question of the exhibitors is raised. The establishment of this exhibition was at the time a cultural policy decision, but it is clear that the maintenance of an exhibit causes costs. However, it is a question of whether or not one wants to spend financial resources on art and culture outside of the agglomerations. This is not a purely economic question, it is also a political one. I give the President of the Court of Auditors the right if he says that it is necessary to ask how much the country of Burgenland is worth maintaining such an institution. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to thank the officials and officials and the President of the Court of Auditors for their excellent work, including for the personal good cooperation I have experienced during this last legislative period. I wish you all the best for further cooperation. I am proud that during this legislative period something could also be done for the officials of the Court of Auditors. In my opinion, the Court of Auditors is an essential part of our democratic structure. Perhaps – as an incentive – it would be good if one could use it more and more in accompanying control.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22600	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22622	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In my view, a number of things are worth mentioning in the year under consideration of the Court of Auditors' report. I would like to start by continuing where, for reasons of time, Mr Wabl could no longer continue with the exemption of the staff he has quoted here in the premise and division of the President of the Court of Auditors and his officials. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's gone anyway!]] I would like to make less of it: What has finally happened in the Court of Auditors is that some 600 000 s would actually have to be paid by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in order to carry out, at last, what happened to the pension shares for the corresponding officials and the exemption, no longer at all to the detriment of the taxpayers, but to the rest of his self and to the contrary of the industrial association which asked for the exemption of the officials. That it was a economical method that did not cover 100 per cent of the costs and that legal uncertainty persists in this respect, the Court of Auditors reports clearly and clearly. There would have been other instruments for providing officials for the election campaign. The legal basis for the other possibilities would have been present. It has also been clearly and clearly demonstrated that they have had significant disadvantages in the field of service for the relevant officials in relation to the scheme which has been taken. I hope that we will find a legal regime for workers' leave for the future, which will satisfy everyone. For there may also be workers' redundancies in other areas, if there is further privatisation, if there are appropriate disincentives in the form, and if officials from the Federal Office to build up these private structures in the sense of temporary work leave also are used in such organizations. I therefore believe that this has not only made a private problem for the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and his predecessors, but perhaps also a fundamental problem that is solved. The second issue I would like to address in my short debate today is the criticism of the Court of Auditors in the field of training of the military command of Carinthia and its subordinate bodies. I would like to thank all the political groups for the first time, not only the officials of the Ministry, but also the execution bodies of the Ministry, criticised in the Court of Auditors report - on the front, I would like to say almost - which are the commanders of the battalions and regiments from Carinthia, for an opinion on the report to the Committee on the Board of Auditors. After a long discussion on the formal or non-formal examination of the Court of Auditors, it is clear to me that in the area of the Federal Army in the Federal Republic of Carinthia, while some was in the legal field, it is indisputable that the overall quality of training was high, however, that the commanders were forced to focus on themselves in the short time and because of the efforts on the border. I do not think that it would be useful for the German army to force the commanders, for lack of time, for lack of resources, for lack of overtime quotas, for lack of motor vehicles, to put their own priorities in a training programme that is considered to be useful in the ministry and the Court of Auditors as a whole, but I believe that this House and all those interested in the external security of Austria should, even if it is unpopular, ask themselves whether we can continue to achieve with 0.8% of the gross domestic product what would be necessary in the Austrian Federal Government for the security of the Republic and what would be necessary for the provision of shooting places, for the provision of vehicles and for the provision of infrastructure in the broadest sense. The Court of Auditors' report and the statements of the officers have clearly demonstrated that the German army's scarcity of resources and also the discussion, which has stimulated Mr Wabl's sales of weapons, are not so much part of the division of arms sales and resale, but rather already in the rust exploitation of old goods, when considering which goods are sold by the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this Court of Auditors report should give thought to all those who are interested in the external security of Austria, including the statements made by the officers concerned. It is not a criticism of the German army's staff, nor is it a criticism of those who have to work with the inadequate measures today, but it is a very strong criticism of you, Mr. Federal Minister, because in the last legislative period you have not succeeded in bringing more money for the security of Austria from the Ministry of Finance and the left half of the empire.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22657	Mrs Binder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22679	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A sentence on the comments made by Mr Stampler, who mentioned how quickly the AMA reacts to the grant and that it is ISO-certified. My question is: Do the farmers know that? – During the discussions we always give a different impression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It would be quite interesting to know whether it actually does. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with two areas of examination, one with the Academy of Fine Arts, and the other with the Mozarteum Salzburg. These are two institutions of high international and national reputation, with a very high acceptance and with the highest artistic level. Both are important and essential elements of the Austrian cultural and art world. Key criticisms of the Court of Auditors have been partially corrected in both institutions. In particular, the new organisational law and the new university service law have contributed to this. Some concrete points about Mozarteum Salzburg: A criticism was, for example, the topic of "Exemption for the Development of the Arts". This formulation is still to be worked on, namely, the clarification of the term "exemption for the development of the arts". But in total, we were told that little more exemptions were granted to teachers at the university. It is also important to state that there is no class without students at present, although this also depends on so-called fashion appearances, for example, that there was a trend towards guitar in the 1980s, a trend towards flute is currently being observed and that this affects the individual classes. Reductions and rationalization measures were also carried out in teaching courses and courses. Some remarks on the Academy of Fine Arts: One of the criticism points was the survey of personnel needs. We were told that the non-scientific surveys The field is completed and results will be available in the scientific field in autumn. In this context, the new study plans and the new institutional breakdown must also be seen. In essence, all the criticisms of the Court of Auditors could be corrected or corrected. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to conclude by saying: To measure cultural and art institutions with a purely economic scale seems to me to be difficult and one-sided. Priority must continue to be given to artistic freedom. [[Abg. Böhacker: But also the economy when it comes to means of taxation!]] Furthermore, I wish both institutions continued success and good!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22726	Mr Hans Helmut Moser has now come to speak. You have a speaking time of 14 minutes available. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Please set 5 minutes!]] You want me to stop for five minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22756	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer immediately to Mr Wabl's contribution to the 1997 report on the Court of Auditors' work, namely the question of the exemption of staff from the various departments. This problem has not only occurred in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with the advertising of our current President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but in general, it is also related to the exemption of recruits for candidate parties in the various electoral movements. We Liberals have already tabled a motion for a resolution in May of this year in order to comply with the Court of Auditors' recommendation. We regret that we have not found time to discuss this motion for a resolution in committee accordingly. We also believe that there is a hidden party funding by leaving staff and that it is really necessary to amend the legal basis – in particular the Civil Service Law, but also the Staff Representative Act – accordingly. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that this would be a need to establish equal opportunities for other candidate parties who do not have so many employees in the Federal Service. Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to address two other areas raised by the Court of Auditors in its 1997 activity report, namely the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs and Defence. First of all, the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen. This Court of Auditors report is not a praise sheet as far as the administrative reform measures in the field of the Ministry of the Interior are concerned. On several occasions, the Court of Auditors argues that the Ministry of the Interior has only limited the scope of organisational studies, such as in the administrative management project, and that some of the proposals made have not been taken up. I believe that it would have been necessary to implement and take seriously these proposals, which have been submitted by the external business consultants. In this respect, it is mentioned areas which we have repeatedly referred to as areas of necessary reform. In an analysis of the complex structure of the safety device, it would be necessary to examine the various tasks of the authorities and guards. It would also bring together the various guards. It would be to bring together the guards we have in the rural and urban areas, say Gendarmerie and executive, because this would enable us to achieve significant synergies. The second area, which is addressed here and in which there is a need, concerns the central office. It belongs to reformed accordingly. Operational areas located in the central office should be outsourced so that the area of executives can be made a little more decisive. Finally, I would like to refer to the area of border army. The Court of Auditors is giving a very positive witness to the area of border arms, but there are also possibilities for improvement, with positive evidence that officials have succeeded in building up the necessary organisational structures at the specified time and in ensuring a certain efficiency of border surveillance. Unfortunately, this has not yet been achieved, is an explanation of competence between the customs guard and the border army. There's a need for action. It will be necessary to reduce the Ministry of Finance's power in the interests of security and in the interests of an efficient border army. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point I would like to address concerns the area of the Federal Ministry of Defence. I am glad that the Federal Minister is here. I would like to draw him to an essential point in the Court of Auditors' report, namely the shortcomings in training in connection with the examination of the military command of Carinthia. On the one hand, it is always noted that we have an improvement in the training organisation and the training regulations, but on the other hand we have insufficient supervision of the service, especially on the part of the superior commanders and departments. I would like to point out to you this inadequate supervision of the service, Federal Minister. This has nothing to do with the budget, it has nothing to do with the other inconsistencies that may exist at one or another higher level of leadership, but that is a central task of the superior commanders. I should like to ask you to pay greater attention to this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22864	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser is sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. Mr Sauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22888	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to join where Mr Moser has ended. The border army is a very positive witness to the Court of Auditors, and in many areas it is pointed out that the border army is doing very positive work. As one who lives and lives in the border area, on the Schengen and EU borders, I can see that it is indeed the case that the border army in our region is making a very positive contribution to the security of the population. Especially the safety of the population is essentially a factor that is constantly being addressed, but in some areas it is not as targeting as it should be. The Court of Auditors' report points out that, under the Schengen Agreement, there was a certain redundancies in the area of the West at the time when this report was written. In the meantime, much has changed, but the situation has also changed. The use of the German army on the Hungarian border – where the assistance has contributed very much to the well-being and security of the population, where many illegal border workers have been attacked – has resulted in the relocation of these illegal border workers into our area. This means that the border army in this area had much more to do with work, that it had much more to do with overtime and that the officials were at the limit of their possibilities because they were simply overwhelmed by labour overload. It might therefore be appropriate to consider the assistance of the German army in the border area of the forest district and the wine district. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to thank the Court of Auditors, Mr President and his staff, but also thank the officials of the border army for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22929	There is now a speech by Mrs Petrovic. This cannot be solved, however, because the speaking time of the green club has already been consumed. I now give the floor to Mr Edler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e22953	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to express my appreciation for the introduction. The Court of Auditors' reports were a good basis for an objective discussion in the Court of Auditors' Committee. I would like to address two issues, namely the highest railway authority and the transport associations. The Court of Auditors' criticism is certainly justified as far as the railway authority is concerned. With regard to human scarcity, a discrepancy must be identified. On the one hand, there is the demand to save staff – especially in the Federal Service – on the other hand, there are difficulties in carrying out the task. This relates to specific approvals, and it means that these ladies and gentlemen are missing when it comes to carrying out these permits in good time. In this respect, I also believe that the economic costs of the economy should be taken into account to see what we are losing. The use fee to be paid by the ÖBB has also been mentioned. It has been critically noted that a total of 20 billion schillings should be paid by the ÖBB. The Minister for Transport has also taken a position here and has spoken in the Committee about social tolerance. I'll bet you: If we were to ask for tariffs in order to obtain a benefit fee of 20 billion schilling, then it would probably not be possible to make a changeover to public transport, i.e. from road to rail. Here, above all, a critical note must be made of how I have done this more often: We must finally – and this is what we have done for the next or next legislative period – finally come to a cost-effectiveness in transport, in particular as regards the cost-truth on the road. As far as the ÖBB itself is concerned, there has been a very critical discussion about the benefits, especially in the field of transport, which the President of the Court of Auditors has also mentioned. I can confirm this, and I believe we are all invited to give the ÖBB – the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board – a signal, not a savings in local transport, in that area that is frequented by commuters and students. There, I believe, the balance sheet is not everything, but it is also about the care and care of the people taking advantage of the railway. I think you are entitled to proper transport. In short, to the transport associations: The report is partly obsolete, because tomorrow we will adopt a new law on the order of public passenger and regional transport. However, it is important to note that transport associations were very important. Although there has been a wild growth, it will be averted by the new legal situation. The success of the changeover – as noted in the Court of Auditors report – has not actually been achieved. However, according to the discussion in the Committee, what would have happened if there had been no transport associations. I think there would be more traffic on the street. I also address the need to provide basic services particularly in the regions: The people there, I believe, have a right to be opened up by traffic and to have a basic supply. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23005	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23027	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the Court of Auditors' activity report for the 1997 administrative year, I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the context of the debate on the report on the Court of Auditors' activity report for the 1997 administrative year, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Haupt has already referred to the Court of Auditors report on military command Carinthia, hunter regiment 7 and 12 and the shortcomings identified there. In this report, it was largely disputed that important training objectives were not achieved. Thus, to name just a few examples, only one out of five combat exercises took place, none of the four companies met the requirements for shooting training, only 55 percent of the daily training goals and only 23 percent, less than a quarter, the night training goals were met, and there were serious shortcomings in alpine training. With reference to this association, the issue of tomorrow's "Kurier" is reported: "Elite force is flying to Albania." – Thank God not with the same powers! Minister! I hope strongly and I also assume that these are essentially cadres and not possibly weirmen from the previous dates that have been reported on this Albania action, otherwise this would be a real threat to the people. That wouldn't be an elite force. Our concerns, among other things, are also addressed in this area: that due to the lack of equipment, by non-existent trucks – we have already spoken about it today – by means of a shooting space that is not available there and, above all, by up to three times the use of assistance, commanders are stolen a large part of the training time in the truest sense of the word, which they can no longer catch up with even the best will and the most intense exercise – and I have brought you the same example of the tank battalion 14. This is a fundamental mistake. The training of the people was planned for six plus two or eight months. They now take them up to a third or more than a third of that time, and in the rest of the time the training cannot be properly carried out and carried out. That's impossible! Now you bring the commander into a conflict of conscience to remove his own goals. This gives you various trained battalions in Austria. That's irresponsible! You can't train "attack workers" and "defense workers", but people have to be able to reach the same level of training, and that's not going to happen, except you'd be right to give the Greens the principle that the six months would still be too many. In reality, training is geared towards this minimum period of time. What you are doing here is therefore irresponsible in a sense. This has to do with the system, with the use of the federal army, but also with the unusable structure, which is also being attacked by the Court of Auditors in other areas. For example, we have nine divisional commanders in Austria today; a divisional one and a half companies in Vorarlberg command: That's ridiculous internationally! This is a fundamental reform, Mr Federal Minister, especially in the light of the fact that military soldiers are increasingly and to a great extent occupying shares of the foreign troops and thus having to be fully trained. It is very difficult to control afterwards which training courses the man has not received, and then to repeat in the training – not to say, it is impossible to do so. There is a danger that the elite soldiers, the elite troops you send to Albania, will be made up of inadequately trained people, and that would not be responsible, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23132	Mr Jung has tabled two motions for resolutions, both of which are sufficiently supported and which are included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Teller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23156	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Jung, I can't stop that. [[Abg. Boy: Then write it over!]] I'm turning it around: The training level of the Carinthian Force is excellent, which has been confirmed by the colleagues, Head and Leikam. Mr President, it is true that the shortcomings in the training system exist and not somewhere in the training directives. We have also made it quite clear in the Committee, Mr Jung, that there are shortcomings in the management of training and that the assistance operations that have been carried out, which are absolutely not taken into account in the training directives, which is not something that could be pre-programmed in any way, but which is simply happening, have played a role. [[Abg. Young: Right!]] [[Abg. Boy: You didn't listen!]] This cannot be contained in the training directives, but in the end it is also an assistance contribution to a certain degree of training. [[Abg. Young: Then we have to change something!]] [[Abg. Young: No! It's not a bet!]] This is learning by doing, Mr deputies, and thus something that benefits our team, but which is not reflected in the training directives in this sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you say that there are shortcomings in shooting training, it is quite natural because, perhaps, you do not know that, in the company there, the shooting position was simply shut down for some time. If the shooting level is available again, the training directive in the field of shooting training will again be fulfilled accordingly. The shortages in the training administration, as we have been said in the Committee, have now been corrected by a computer-supported training check. So I have to say to our Carinthian team: We are proud of our troops when they help in assistant missions where they need the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If our men are better soldiers than accountants in the field of assistance, then I don't feel hurt in this case without something going down here. Second point: People's promotion. The Court of Auditors also criticised the promotion of groups. It would be likely that all funding would have been used properly. However, like a red thread, this report points to the fact that the relevant funding body was simply overburdened in terms of personnel and administration, and so in many cases simply passed the targets. I would like to mention a few of the examples that the honourable Member, who has declared himself responsible for the groups, has given my friend Karel Smolle, whether the three musical instruments have forgotten: Large-scale projects without financing plan, irresponsible newspaper funding – a newspaper 60 S, different from what the Court of Auditors proposes, namely that it should cost up to 3 S –, promotion of projects in existing, significantly cheaper alternatives, promotion of event rooms in spite of nearby areas available, promotion of two documentation centres in one place, unmistakable promotion goals in the process of church renovation, in the operation of a school, in the case of language development, no motivation for associations to carry out cost-effective projects – it is simply pointless for projects that need to be repaid for a profit to be funded –, difficult-to-understand contracts, association support instead of popular support, too much global funding instead of targeted project promotion, and, in particular, the necessary delay in the funding process. A promotion process, as presented in this Court of Auditors report, has not deserved our peoples – those groups for which our hearts are beating and behind!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23257	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining time of the club: 17 minutes. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23279	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cheysson. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I don't know if you've been to committee. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Yes!]] Good. Then you will have heard from the experts that this is by no means one to be done. If a soldier, a basic military servant, is in the assistant service for three months, but he doesn't need eight months – otherwise we don't need an eight-month ground defense service – to complete the entire range of training, then he's not fully trained and not operational after this time. This means, Mr Teller, that we have committed ourselves for eight months only to providing an assistant service for the Minister of the Interior for three months and then completely lost for the defence of the state. This cannot be a sense of military service and a military service. That is what we are already doing with the fictions and the facts, Mr Federal Minister. We already discussed this morning: There is a general obligation in theory; in practice, however, it is so that everyone can decide freely – and more and more so – to provide civil service instead of the presence service. We have in theory a military army; However, they have managed to continue cutting the militia with every military division. Today it is the case that hardly any more voluntary arms exercises are carried out, that military soldiers enter into an exercise every two years, after they – I say this again now – already get out of the basic military service badly trained, and then they are to be sent into action somewhere. Believe that You're not serious! As far as the modern device is concerned, which is purchased in small areas, such as the LEOPARD, one also knows that it is no longer military in its complexity. It is also true that there is an independent national defence because we are not involved in a security system, but that neither the money nor the staff nor the infrastructure are provided. Federal Minister! You really cannot say that this is a responsible national defense! I would even say that the exact opposite is true: With 20 billion schillings, they afford a military effort, but it is not possible to fulfil the tasks he has to perform, not through the debt of the army, but through the debt of politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! The way should be another: Finally, decide! Give this army new orders, which can be completed, by finally making the principle of future orientation in security policy, as you have planned in your government statement! There should be consensus on this, because since the Cologne EU decisions it is clear that in a year and a half the decision on a European security system is to be taken here. That's where we should get in full content. If this security system stands – and I also say quite clearly: with the assistance guarantee of the State community – then there is the possibility of awarding new orders to the state defence, and then it is also clear that when these orders are carried out abroad, but also domestically, professional soldiers must first and foremost be used and, in order to obtain the corresponding manpower, a serious military component must be provided. However, we have also proposed that the first thing we can do is to provide volunteers with an incentive system if we also pay for these exercises attractively if there are also advantages in the pension and tax model. It should not be the case as it is now, that the time soldiers and the military soldiers abroad are still being reduced – we will be discussing this at the next item on the agenda. – Under these conditions, we believe, it is then possible to suspend the general obligation. However, it is important that you take action now, for example, taking into account all the additional tasks, such as assistance or foreign intervention, also in the national defence budgets, and that you also loosen up the recruitment stop with the staff, if not even up. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) He could be a basis for building a strong and professional defence in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23341	Mr Scheibner has tabled a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the negotiations. Mr Leikam has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Two colleagues, Mr Moser and Mr Sauer, have already mentioned the border service in their speeches. I would also like to do so and, as I have already said in the Committee, I would like to say, to address this issue exclusively. I would just like to make one more comment on Mr Sauer's comments. It is from Lower Austrian circles that the desire to extend the Austrian army's assistance also to Lower Austria, on the grounds that the work of the border army does not function in such a way that in Lower Austria the border, as Pröll once expressed it, is "deep as a Swiss cheese". I have made the effort myself to visit two districts, namely Gänserndorf and Mistelbach, and I have had a lot of personal discussions with the border officials there. These officials don't have this impression, and I didn't get that impression either. I think, rather, that there is an excellent work there, that there are dedicated workers in the area of the border army and in the area of the federal army, who provide assistance in the Burgenland, but also in the area of police officers and customs guards serving at the border. These are incredibly motivated and committed and work perfectly. However, an extension of the German army's assistance to other parts of Lower Austria or Burgenland can not be considered, I believe, because, and this has clearly emerged from the discussion in the Committee, the German army would at present no longer be able to send more units to assist itself, because it was precisely the units in Carinthia that had to admit that it was rejecting the use at the border in its training. One of the reasons why the training objectives are not achieved is the fact that many Carinthian units at the border in Burgenland provide assistance. I therefore believe that we would not be able to make such an extension of the assistant service from the Federal Government's personal offer. Now to the border service: Ladies and gentlemen! With the accession to the Schengen Agreement, Austria has taken on a very important task, namely to ensure the 1 259-km-long EU external border in such a way that the Schengen standard and the Schengen directives are also complied with accordingly. In fact, it was only a relatively short time to establish the Austrian border service in such a way that this standard could also be reached. It can be said that this construction has really been successful. Only a few have actually believed that the time given here could actually work. In this context, I also recall debates here in the House, which have repeatedly been asked to the Minister for the Interior and which have been accused of not continuing to build the border service, that the Germans have kept us from saying that we are not going further. Now, I believe, we can really say that everything has been done at this time so that we can carry out checks on the Schengen standard at our external borders. The Court of Auditors, in its report, has also been very, very grateful to the establishment of the border service and has meant, in summary, that the border service in Austria has been built up quickly, sparingly and efficiently. He stressed very, very much that the border service was not an independent unit of organization, but that the border service was integrated into the structures of the Federal Army, which proved to be very useful, as the Court of Auditors said. He also suggested that, if the fullness of persons is achieved – and this is the case at present – the full training of border workers should also begin, as well as the full training of customs opponents who are only six months trained, and that the customs guards should receive additional training. This time has now come, and from October on, the full training of these border workers and customs opponents will begin. That, I think, is another step. A promise made by the Minister of the Interior to these officials will also be fulfilled. I do not want to thank the Federal Minister for the Interior, but above all Mr Brigadier Strohmeyer, who has built up the border service as an official, as well as all officials who serve at the border – the border-arms, the police, the customs guards and the Austrian federal army – for my warmest thanks.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23418	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Fierce, has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23439	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to begin by thanking the previous speakers who expressed their appreciation for the Court of Auditors' activities and, above all, for the activities of the Court of Auditors. I take this recognition expressed in it as proof that the Court of Auditors is on the right track and that the Court of Auditors should continue to follow this path in the future. I can also assure you that the praise expressed in the previous speakers' words is an incentive for the Court of Auditors' auditors – and, of course, for me – to continue to deliver such a high-quality work and to be the subject of discussions here in the House. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! In view of the advanced period of time, I would like to focus on one of the points raised today in the Court of Auditors' reports, namely the question of the exemption of staff to assist candidates for the Federal President's office, which has been addressed by several speakers and which has also already caused public attention. As I have already done in the Committee, I would like to make it clear here again that the Court of Auditors' position is clear. The Court of Auditors, following its examination, found that since 1986 officials of the Federal Foreign Office have been exempt from service for the Federal presidential elections. It has been the so-called 'labour leave contracts' which were concluded between the Federal Government on the one hand and various bodies, on the other hand, which have then made these officials available to the Federal presidential candidates in the election campaign. The Court of Auditors has also found that there are no clear legal rules for such contracts of employment, and the fact that there are no clear legal regulations is the starting point and cause of the difficulties in assessing the entire transactions. The Court of Auditors was therefore also dependent on the fact that there is no such clear legal basis for making comparisons, analogies and theoretical calculations. The first impact of the lack of adequate legal basis is that the contractual basis alone is the basis for the assessment. The second impact of the lack of adequate legal basis is that there is a broad legal freedom in the design of these contracts, i.e. a broad legal freedom to agree contractually, which must be paid by the employee, when something must be paid by him, whether interest should be paid, whether it is to be accommodated and the like more. For all these circumstances, which were the subject of the Treaties, the legal basis is missing. The Court of Auditors considered this situation to be extremely unsatisfactory and therefore suggested in its report, with its first recommendation, that, if the legislator wanted it to regulate it, it would also be in a clear legal manner. These legal provisions could then already standardise all the content of the contract, which should then be made subject to such contracts. In view of the fact that no such mandatory contractual content for the transfer of labour has yet been laid down by law, the Court of Auditors has only been able to carry out a review on the basis of analog legal bases with regard to the audit objectives of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. In this context, the Court of Auditors has used § 78a of the Civil Service Service Law for the Liberation of Municipal Datare and in addition a newsletter of the Federal Chancellor's Office from 1993. However, these two legal bases, which I would like to stress once again, were not intended for the specific contracts, are clear from the fact that not only is the activity effort to be replaced by employees, but also a 50 percent supplement. Only when a 50 per cent bonus is paid by the employee at the cost of activity can it be said that full cost coverage is provided for the federal government. That is why the Court of Auditors' second recommendation states that the amount of the sums to be paid to the federal government should be cost-effective in future, including the 50 % increase I have mentioned. The two recommendations of the Court of Auditors are forward-looking, as is the case with all the Court of Auditors' recommendations. They are aimed, on the one hand, at a legislative supplement, on the other, at taking into account the Court's suggestion that such contracts should only be made more cost-effective in the future. However, as far as the contracts concluded in the past are concerned, it should be pointed out that they can only be assessed by the content with which they were concluded at the time. In this context, reference should be made – and the Court of Auditors has noted – that the Ministry has not concluded the previous employment loan contracts in such a way that the employee would have been obliged to pay 50 percent. This has been criticised by the Court of Auditors, and it has also made it very clear that, in the future, such a omission as has been found in the Treaties in the past should no longer be allowed to fail. [[Abg. Wabl: Now we know!]] However, the consequence of this omission in view of the contracts concluded in the past is seen as the fact that workers can no longer be treated for a further remuneration – and that means: to pay an award – legally. It may, therefore, take advantage of any employee with fug and right to fully fulfil the contracts he has concluded. There is no legal possibility to impose further benefits on him, in view of the contracts that have been concluded in the past. The less a person who has not been involved in the conclusion of a contract can be treated as such, including the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He was not involved in the conclusion of the contract. – This is the legal situation. [[Abg. Wabl: But he is politically responsible for his election team!]] Deputies! From the point of view of the Court of Auditors, I can only explain the legal situation. The Court of Auditors is not entitled to a judgment on the political situation and the political consequences. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr. Klestil was politically responsible! He's the first man in the state!]] However, in view of this unsatisfactory situation and the findings made, the Court of Auditors has summarized and, in summary, makes the following recommendations: Firstly, a clear legal basis is to be established. Secondly, to ensure the future that contracts of the same kind as they were concluded in the past can only be concluded more cost-effectively, i.e. with a supplement to activity. I believe that if we take into account these suggestions by the Court of Auditors, which partly aim at legislative amendments or additions, then future discussions relating to the transfer of workers from the Federal Service can be avoided, and I believe that many of the inconsistencies that have arisen in the past can also be resolved in this way. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Some of my previous speakers have also referred to this and have suggested that legislative changes may be made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] It is now the ball of the National Council whether it wants to follow the Court of Auditors' suggestions and create clear legal provisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23519	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mrs Moser-Starrach has now been reported to the House. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23549	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! For my most likely last speech here in the National Council, I have chosen a subject that no speaker has mentioned before, which is always my heart and with which I have repeatedly expressed myself to be a strong hand and a reliable partner of youth. At the same time, I would ask you to be multipliers for even more young people to participate in the EU programmes and in the exchange programmes. The EU programmes consist essentially of two parts: "Youth for Europe" and "European Voluntary Services". Youth for Europe is essentially a youth mobility programme for all kinds of youth groups. The typical "Youth for Europe" project is that a group of young people from one country across countries with a group of young people from another two carry out a youth leisure activity, but not in the tourist sense, but with a background, mostly in the fields of economy, culture or social affairs. The participating young people are between 15 and 25 years old, the overall group is manageable and consists of at least 16 and a maximum of 60 participants, and the project duration is one to three weeks. Special support has been given to disadvantaged young people. The accompanying results of this programme are of particular interest to youth trainers and multipliers in the youth field. Regional youth initiative projects in which an EU-wide relevant topic is implemented are also eligible, for example the anti-racism project, which was shown at the Town Hall Square in 1995, in which "all equal – all different" transparency was produced and presented. The Court of Auditors has probably rightly criticized the efficiency of the allocation of funds. That is why the national agencies have been grouped together once again in a board of trustees to manage the funds even better. We had only 1.7 percent of the funds available in Austria for 50 000 young people across the EU, following our youth evaluation. We can therefore be proud that not only 850 young people have participated in these projects but 1 650! The "European Voluntary Service", which was transferred to the pilot phase of 1996/97 after a period of consultation in 1995, aims to ensure that individual young people can still show appropriate mobility. The basic structure of the typical EFD project is that young people from a country A can spend six to twelve months in a country they can choose from and choose the corresponding projects. The projects will be shown to young people, and they will be accompanied by interpreters and corresponding specialists, so they will not be left alone! The age of the participants is between 18 and 25 years, while the stay abroad is limited to 12 months. Six regional offices in different federal states guarantee information and advice. A total of 2,500 young people across the EU had 180 Austria. I should like to thank the officials and the President of the Court of Auditors once again for their commitment and wish them all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23601	Mr Wallner has also been mentioned on the floor. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23620	Mr President! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus on EU regional support, which is part of the Court of Auditors' report. As we all know, there are different developments in each region within the European Union. Most of the time, this has an economic background, and I believe it is right and right and reasonable that the European Union has created a compensation mechanism in the form of EU regional policy and its support. We Austrians have been able to participate in it since our accession in 1995 and have already been able to use 22 billion schilling of EU funds for us between 1995 and 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda 2000 was also adopted at the EU Summit held in Berlin in March. In this context, it has been agreed that in the next section of the budget, 2 700 billion schilling will be made available to the European regions. In the sense of net payers, as we are Austrians, it has also been decided to significantly limit the number of eligible areas from now on. What does that mean to us? – There are restrictions on EU regional funding. By 2006 only over 2 million people will live in areas with a total of more than 9 billion Schilling in regional funding in Austria instead of 3 million. For example, the Objective 1 area, the Burgenland, will receive a little over 3.5 billion schilling. For labour market policies, there will be 7.3 billion schilling, for Community initiatives 4.8 billion schilling, in total 25 billion schilling. This is an increase of 3 billion, and I think that the Austrian delegation under the leadership of German Chancellor Klima was able to achieve great success in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a steirer, I am pleased that the southern Länder, which are not part of the beneficiary regions of our Republic, will again have to face EU funds in the coming years. There will also be Community initiatives programmes that can be targeted everywhere. For the period 2000 to 2006, 350 million euros were expected from the budget of the Community initiatives. Half of these are reserved for INTERREG programmes, i.e. for cross-border programmes. I think that this is a very positive thing for the Austrian border regions. Finally, I should like to say once again that I am glad that the Heads of State have now agreed on the distribution key. As a steirer, I can say that we can manage more than 2.8 billion schilling in the time period I have mentioned, which is a plus of 4.1 percent. I am glad that Mrs Landeshuptmann has complied with the pressure of the Social Democrats in the Styrian Landstag and has finally enforced herself once again after having also had problems with the implementation of the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know you don't like to hear that. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the EU regional managers, including a child of social democracy. These form an important hub for the economy and for project operators. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23684	The next item is the report by Mr Koppler. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23705	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Supervisory Board! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Sorry! I wanted to say, of course. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! [[Congratulations and Bravo!-Ruf des Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I am pleased that in my last speech I also received the applause from Mr Khol. This has been very rare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors! You and your employees were rightly praised today. Allow me, however, to make some critical comments on the contract limitation law. Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of the report commissioned by the Court of Auditors on the average income of 1996/97, I had to say, unfortunately, that the Court of Auditors has worked very generously in this regard. If he had to examine himself, he would certainly have had to complain about the award of the contract. Because, since he has no own data, he has carried out the necessary work by Kreutzer, Fischer & Partner Consulting GmbH, and the result that has been delivered does not correspond to the intentions of the law and the objectives of our house. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The data produced is essentially contained in the Social Report of the Federal Government. The purpose of the provision of law in the contract limitation law is to determine those incomes which are not included in these employee statistics, in particular the incomes of the self-employed and the self-employed, as well as the incomes of persons from capital incomes. Due to the basic concept of this survey, these areas were not included. Therefore, there has been a repetition of what has already been known. From my point of view, the average income should also be included, in particular, of the groups of persons with nationally regulated professions, such as the doctors, lawyers, notaries, economic trustees, tax advisors and so on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The income of self-employed persons has not been collected in detail. A statement on the income of senior officials cannot also be made as the company responsible has not provided reasonable results due to the nature of the data collection. In particular, no secondary functions were included. A further major lack is that no distinction has been made between men and women in this investigation. From a statistical point of view, the type of survey and the fact that the average values of all farms have been declared an average for the whole industry give a very distorted picture, so that the results can only be used on a conditional basis. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one compares the income of skilled workers with that of non-conductors, it should be noted that the annual income of non-conductors after this breakdown is 35 000 s higher than that of the workers. If one compares the ratio between income from all workers to non-conductors, then a difference of about 100 000 S annual income is made. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Against this background, the demand for fair working conditions has been reaffirmed by the Socialist MEPs. The Fairneß action on equality between workers and employees in working life is also a necessary consequence, which is also very clear on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already noticed that this is my last speech. I was here in the House for nine and a half years. Especially the first time was very difficult for me. At the time, I was chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I think I can say retroactively that there has been a great deal of success here as part of the coalition. Looking back, we are proud of these companies! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it was an honor to work here in this house. Allow me now to express a wish: I would like to see the differences between workers and employees settled in this millennium. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you every good and good success for the next term of office. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23795	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is also no conclusion on the part of the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote, and this is done separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the Court of Auditors' report on the management of the 1997 financial year, III-157 of the supplements. If you would like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Main and comrades concerning party financing through the public work of the Federal Government. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on immediate measures against tractors and increased border security. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the supplementary report of the Court of Auditors for the 1997 Administrative Year, on III-157 of the Supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hans Helmut Moser, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the exemption of staff from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in support of the elections in 1986, 1992 and 1998. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on measures to transform the Austrian Federal Army into a "voluntary army". In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors' report on average income in 1996, 1997 in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 para. 4 Contributory Restriction Act, III-170 of the Supplements, to be taken into account. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its collection of average incomes and of the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the field of the public economy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1995 and 1996, III-109 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. 24. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the report (III-188 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for State Defense pursuant to § 46a Wehrgesetz 1990 on Women's Services in the Federal Army in 1998 (2024 of the Supplements) 25. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on the motion for a resolution 397/A (E) by Mr Hans Helmut Moser and Mr Comrades on sufficient pension provision for Austrian soldiers (1583 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23942	I now call on points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Scheibner has been mentioned as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e23972	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address these two agenda items very briefly. First of all, on the report on the services of women in the Federal Army: We see on the basis of the report that at the end of the year 31. In December 1998, 65 women were serving with the gun in the Austrian Federal Army. If one imagines how long it took for appropriate legislative measures to be put in place for the creation of this possibility and how much vortex there has been, then one really must say: A lot of noise and little benefit! I say: Unfortunately! For it would be an important measure – including defence policy – to give women the opportunity to serve with the weapon and thus contribute to the Austrian defence of the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfortunately, the coalition was once again only able to reach a compromise. For it was not possible to enforce that women can also work outside a career in the field of the military service to the Austrian federal army. Federal Minister! You said in the Committee that you had to talk about it. We are now giving you the opportunity to do so, because I believe it is necessary to open the federal army on a voluntary basis to women also in the field of the militia. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Secondly, Pension provision for the Austrian time soldiers and for military soldiers. This too is a subject that we have been discussing for a long time. They always say that there are no problems or cases of problems in this context. – The problem is that since the last savings package, the Austrian time-consumers and military soldiers' service abroad have not been recognized as an insurance period since the last savings package, but only as a replacement time. This has already had an impact on some cases – and some have only reached retirement age. I am aware of a case in which a person has been employed abroad for ten years in the service of the Austrian Federal Army and who has not been credited with these ten years for the pension now, which has resulted in his receiving only 11 000 S monthly pension. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! They always say in your Sunday speeches that you are proud of the fact that there are Austrians – however, too few – who also commit themselves for a long time to perform a corresponding service abroad. I mean, these people should not be missed by having problems with the amount of pensions. On the contrary. We have told you that if you find professional soldiers, you must also give appropriate incentives. A basic condition for this is that such people do not have any further disadvantages in the provision of pensions. That is why we will vote in favour of this request, and I think it is really a pity that you have rejected it from the committee's loyalty to coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24037	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Maitz has been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24061	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The project "Women as Soldiers in the Austrian German Army" is successful. We have complied with the wishes of many women and have enabled the work of the soldiers to be done at all levels and in all arms holes. Women as soldiers give new impetus to the reputation of the federal army. Where women work in the Federal Army, this does well for the working environment. At present, 65 women are providing their training with the German army, and in the selection procedure, the desire was often expressed to provide a voluntary ground defense service in order to receive training time on the one hand and on the other hand to have the opportunity for a later military career. I too am convinced that we should take this next step, after an appropriate observation period, as agreed. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, 36 women again made the reception test with the German army, 14 of which have passed positively, twelve have the opportunity to pick up individual parts in the autumn, and ten have not fulfilled the conditions. – This is basically a good result, and everyone involved is to be congratulated. Ladies and gentlemen! After about five years as a Member of Parliament here in the National Council and 20 years earlier in the Styrian Landtag, I will no longer be candidates in autumn. Therefore, allow me to express my thanks to the other parties' speakers. I thank you for the personally fair and comradeshipal encounter, even though we have very often delivered hard fights to each other in the matter. Thank you, Toni Gaál! Thank you, Herbert Scheibner! Thank you, Hans Helmut Moser! I can only thank Mr Wabl for provoking me here and there, but that is also part of Parliamentaryism. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, all the best for many years.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24097	Mr Hans Helmut Moser has also been mentioned on the floor. Rest of the time of your club: 7 minutes. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24119	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, there will be two important items on the agenda. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No farewell speech?]] No farewell speech, Mr Graf, that is just a wishful thought, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. On the two agenda items a few brief remarks; first on the question of women in the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! There is indeed a lot of effort associated with very little success. Considering that the objective of this measure was originally a 5-percent mark – that is, about 1,500 women should have served in the federal army – it is a weak result that we currently stand at 0.2 percent and that only just over 60 women perform the service with the federal army. I think this result is also an expression of the fact that a wrong approach has been adopted here, namely the approach to building up a classical professional army, rather than acting on the basis of a volunteer army, as our objective should be. We regret that, in principle, a good idea cannot really be successful because of these structural shortcomings. Women have no access to a military career. There is therefore no possibility for women to be deployed abroad. I therefore believe that such changes are necessary. I would like to come to the second point, which will now be discussed, namely a request from me concerning a sufficient pension provision for Austrian army soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that pension provision for soldiers who are serving the Republic is insufficient for the country shows how little serious the Republic is actually doing this service. It is unfortunate that the service abroad in the United Nations is considered only as a replacement time for the pension. The same applies to the presence service, the same applies to the exceptional presence service or to the former time soldiers. I believe that it would be useful and necessary and also appropriate for all those who carry out this service in the interests of our country to be respected and for them to be safeguarded in accordance with social and pension law. First of all, I had expected and hoped that this request would also be a positive one, because Minister of Defense, Fassleven, expressed his intention to negotiate with the social sector in this regard. The Minister for Social Affairs has said that she understands this. Unfortunately, nothing has come out, as with so many other necessary projects. I therefore think that, if this time it is rejected, this is at least one point to be discussed during the next legislative period and a regulation to be introduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24154	Mr Gaál has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24176	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing women in the army, and we can achieve a positive balance. This positive balance shows that it has been right to make women accessible to the Federal Army. The soldiers are characterized by diligence, seriousness and great sense of responsibility. I am pleased to see that the operation of the service is all-embracing. The report speaks of a very high motivation for women. This motivation also gives men a very positive competitive effect. We have created the legal conditions that allow women to serve in the Federal Government. This gives women a good chance to take up a military career. We should continue to give women these career opportunities, even improve them, and not make them more difficult. I am therefore pained to hear that 75 per cent of women are the main reason for the termination of training or for the withdrawal from the federal army. Federal Minister! We both know that the sense of the obstacle path to verifying physical performance has long been controversial. Sports officers from the Federal Government confirmed this in personal discussions. The obstacle track is a military training system that serves special training and does not require any team work at all. It is particularly suitable for the training of the individual military fighter, but in the present case the physical performance test is not required. Federal Minister! Therefore, the question arises why the German army is still holding on to the obstacle track as the only test and selection criterion. I do not want to assume that the women are to be missed out on the way to the federal army or to make the military career more difficult. Because, regardless of whether the soldiers can otherwise show excellent training results, the career of women in the German army in the event of the failure on the obstacle track has once and for all ended. That is not our agreement, but that is disturbing. But what bothers me even more, Mr. Federal Minister, were the sexist and discriminatory contributions about women in the army in the journal of the working community of the liberal army members. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Yes, yes!]] Indeed, this disdainful representation, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, in the journal close to you, one really has to condemn very strongly. [[Abg. Scheibner: such a fool!]] I have to tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have certainly not imagined the opening of the Federal Army for women, which was planned and enforced for us as a step towards equal rights for women in the army. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't look at the "Kronen Zeitung" either, do you?]] Federal Minister! I asked you to make a clear statement in this regard. Unfortunately, she failed, even as far as the Federal Army calendar is concerned with slightly dressed soldiers. Here too, a clear opinion of yours is not available. I would like to ask you: Don't let such excesses go through in the federal army! [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping a newspaper high) That's also sexistic, isn't it?]] I do not agree with that either, Mr Scheibner. – A silence is certainly not appropriate here. These are negative accompanying appearances, which are also to be shown. But overall, the positive prevails. This is clear from the report, and we learn this from discussions in the barracks. That is why, I believe, I should like to say thanks to all those involved: the responsible officers and sub-offenders, the trainers and the women themselves who have opted for the military profession. We therefore take note of this report as it stands.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24262	Mr Wabl has been on the list of speakers, but there is no time for his club to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Peace is timeless!]] That is why Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven has now been spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24295	Mr President. High house! The opening up of the Federal Army to women just over a year ago was undoubtedly a very important social policy step because it was one of the last areas in the social and professional life of Austria, which did not allow access for women. When I think about what prejudices were accompanied by the debate about the introduction, one can only say after a year: The introduction has become a full success, and all these unknowing calls have in no way proved true. That's how we should see it. We should simply have the courage to make right decisions at the right time, and do not make our way to the future more and more difficult to deal with yourself. I thank all those who have contributed. I can only say that our example is also exemplary for other countries today, such as for the discussion in Germany. Without a doubt, it will be necessary to take the second step, to offer full equality and also to open up access to the militia on a voluntary basis. There is no doubt that it must also be a right for women to perform such a service. I think that should be an important requirement for the next legislative period. I would like to take this opportunity today to thank all the members of the Committee on Defence for their constructive cooperation during the last legislative period. Some of them excite, who have worked for a long time and extremely effective: Gerald Tychtl, Dieter Lukesch, Willi Sauer and in particular Karl Maitz, spokesperson of the People's Party. I would like to thank all of you for this. It was a pleasure to work with you. I thank you and wish you all the best, even outside this house!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24344	Mrs Hagenhofer has now been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24365	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A few sentences on the report on women's services to the army and the changes that you, Minister, are about to make, first and foremost, about opening the militia to women. I checked and found out the following: As the first and most important point in the written Council of Ministers' presentation, which was jointly presented by Federal Minister Prammer and you, it has also been decided that the voluntaryity of women must be enshrined in the Constitution in the Austrian army. I now ask myself, as a woman, whether it is necessary for me to be in a state of military in order to be able to make foreign operations. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Voluntarily! It's just voluntary!]] For it is not the intention of the SPÖ, nor the intention of Federal Minister Prammer to let women go into the military state. – As far as this issue is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Voluntarily!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That can't be true! At the low services the women are...!]] Mrs Colleague, this is set out in the written Council of Ministers' presentation. There's no way through that either. Now I would like to deal with the request for pensionable contribution insurance for ordinary and extraordinary presenters. According to the ASVG, the time of an ordinary or exceptional presence service counts as a replacement time, i.e. an extraordinary presence service – such as cadre exercises, voluntary arms exercises, functional exercises and presenceal service for the posting of members of the Federal Army for assistance abroad – is included. The social security scheme for soldiers must be divided into two categories. That means: If a person conducts arms exercises under the provisions of the Wehrgesetz and weighs the replacement days in a calendar month compared to the contribution dates, it is necessary that this month be considered a replacement month. Secondly, the times of the Foreign use, for example, for the Austrian UN troops, provided that the use is not carried out by officials – that is, the difference – as well as replacement times. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben! That's what it's all about now!]] That's right! I would like to say that once again, because I believe that this is an essential point for the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is exactly the injustice!]] Mr President, this is exactly what we are talking about. It is necessary for your ministry, Mr Minister, to think about it or to make proposals for such operations to be carried out first in the context of service conditions. Then this problem would have been eliminated. You should also take initiatives to ensure that pensionable contribution periods can be created for all those present – for ordinary and exceptional people. We think you should make the conditions for this. The soldiers deserved this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24457	Mr Jung has also been mentioned on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24478	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Women in the Federal Army – a political decision that we have taken, but in its implementation in many areas it happens in Austria! As it is a political decision, cost-benefit accounting plays a lower role. Nevertheless, it should not be forgotten that each one of these jobs has cost more than a million schillings if one speaks as euphoric as the Federal Minister has just said when he wanted to celebrate this as a great success. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: It can't be enough for women!]] 55 women after a year and a half – if you calculate the sportsmen who don't bring anything directly to the federal army – this is anything but a proud balance, especially if you think of what you actually wanted when you spoke of many hundreds of women. There seems to have been some things wrong. Accordingly, the Federal Minister withdrew from the project. He used to leave no event and no photo appointment, but he has become quieter. I can recall that we had fashion shows, dress designs and uniform designs long before we had the legal basis for including women in the federal army. There is nothing left to press now, so it is pushed into the background. That is why we are discussing this subject far after midnight and even after the spirit hour. This is the importance that women are given in practice here. Moreover, the current practice is not always in the interest of women, especially the derogations which the Federal Minister of State has also referred to as not exactly beneficial, with regard to the militia. I am missing the reason why women should not be taken into the military field. An agreement alone is a little bit, but it should also have a meaning and a background. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: The meaning is, please, that the woman has two children and not available at any time...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Voluntarily!]] Willingly, Mrs Colleague! You didn't listen. By way of exception, I agree with Mr Maitz. But one thing should be done if one observes the position of women in the army. If you make reliefs, you make a mistake. The women who have endured receive a very good or even excellent description and are accepted. There are, however, problems with acceptance, where the criteria are different for women than for men. For you must not forget one thing, even if you do not like to hear about social democracy: In the military field there is a military community, which is a comradery area in which someone who gets specializations is cut by the others. This is the practice, and this is understandable in a group and in a community. Anyone who does the same thing will be taken in. This also concerns physical performance. Because the back luggage, the stormgun, the gun won't be easier for a woman. Furthermore, you must not forget the following: It is true to say that the benefits are higher than for a military man; but these women are supposed to represent cadre staff, they are to go to a sub-official or an officer's school, and there higher benefits are required. If Mr Gaál here says about the obstacle track that she would be good for the individual fighter, he seems to have forgotten that the individual struggle is an important training in the federal army, which every soldier must pass through and which is of great importance to the soldiers to be sent abroad. That is why it is necessary to train women in the same way, so that they can find recognition in their field and among their comrades, as they have found those women who have done the performance tests so far. Another one, Mr. Gaál, you can arrange this for your Minister of the Interior: The special associations of the Gendarmerie, for example, have the same criteria for men and women, and therefore there are no women there. Tell your Minister of the Interior! Perhaps you could do something about equality there. It is assumed that certain minimum criteria are precisely required in the performance. They cannot demand them from the Minister of Defence and then ask the Minister of the Interior for something else with a split tongue. Minister! With regard to your optimistic outlook on a proportion of 5 percent of women you are seeking in the army: According to current developments, you can only achieve this if you carry out two further military reforms and go to 1,000 men total strength. In fact, much stronger will not be the urge of women. There is – and we must also be aware of this – if we do not want to force women into this profession; and we do not want to do so – only a very limited number of women who are interested in this profession.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24540	Mr Murauer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24561	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the short term, pension provision for soldiers. Firstly, a motion for a resolution on the theory: There is no practical example in this regard. I think it would be rather nice, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, for you, of course, to talk about a reduction in the pension. For the first time, I assign this to the election campaign. [[Abg. Scheibner: I have just said that there are examples of this!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: The Minister and his ministry have, of course, examined this request accordingly. I would like to point out here that professional soldiers are not affected and that there are not only disadvantages in the pension relationship for this reason. Thirdly, Mrs Hagenhofer – she is no longer here. This event would cost us the "littleness" of 400 million schillings if we introduced them for all those present and all foreign operations. This is not within the current budget. But if such demands are made, then I am confident that the Ministry of Defence's budget will be increased accordingly during the next legislative periods, ladies and gentlemen, because there are also replacement times for the unemployed and children's education periods abroad. Fourth: Since we are also committed to structural adjustment – this is exactly an insurance period of 450 months, because youth has been taken into account accordingly – and since no single case has been known, the ÖVP remains in the existing scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! Last, but not least, I would like to thank our defense spokesman Karl Maitz very much for his work. He was defense spokesperson for five years for the ÖVP and for decades was a country deputy security spokesman in the Styrian state government. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He has in mind the coalition...!]] His experience and knowledge in federal government questions were always a enrichment and a great commitment. Dear Karl, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24610	Mrs Gredler has also been mentioned. Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24632	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, it would have been nice if you would also have thanked for the use of the Federal Army Complaints Commission. I think this would also be the case for this Commission for the work you have done, also in collaboration with the officials of your home. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as the women in the federal army are concerned, I must say that I had a strange experience. I went to Linz to the place where it is checked which women are primarily suitable to come to the federal army, and which are not. I thought first: This will be a terrible thing, one will create these poor women and rob them of energy. I was surprised to note – and I should like to stress this positively – that the ladies are being treated very carefully and that efforts are being made to deal with women very fairly. [[Abg. Madl: Didn't you expect that?]] I would like to draw this out positively, because I did not expect it. I have to say that is something I should like to commend. On the other hand, what I do not wish to mention in praise is the fact that women who are admitted and are being trained are subjected to very different treatment. On the one hand, they are integrated, completely absorbed by the comrades and fully accepted by the superiors. There are no problems at all, and these women also have a considerable career. On the other hand, there are women who are rejected from the outset. In fact, they have no chance at all and are put as far as possible – I would like to call it so – by not letting them practice a sufficient number of weeks before they have to deal with any obstacle pathways. The dates are set in such a way that in the time of the exercise there is frost, so that the tracks are not available. Then, suddenly, the examination is started, so that the women concerned have no opportunity to build up this skill or this raw power. This has something to do with the physiology of women. She's in contrast to the men's physiology, which will confirm to you every doctor. Women need to build up raw power, much more weeks or months than men. They will not be allowed to do so. However, the evaluation criteria are the same. However, those assessment criteria which could deal with women very easily, i.e. jointness or skill, are not the subject of the evaluation in the context of sporting examinations. But I think that is also necessary. I think it is necessary to demand a soldier's skill and joint. But this is totally irrelevant in this context. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smolle.]] I would like to see an improvement – and there Mr Jung has also been called on. If you already want the equal treatment of both sexes, you can not only create the male latte when it comes to the requirements that are required for women, but then you have to create a scale that is very probably applicable to both sexes. [[Abg. Smolle: What kind of "latte"?]] That's where I have to say: We in Parliament have the task of seeing with the appropriate knowledge of the medical community how we achieve fairness between the two sexes. I would have liked to see solidarity among the Members. But perhaps you can still be converted, Mr Jung, to accept that women are different from men.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24693	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24714	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I hope to get through in the very short term. I would remind you that women must also be in the army at 2 o'clock in the morning. This is the time when we send them to the night march at the selection criterion and then subject them to a psychological test. The psychological test remains separate from us. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The report is compressed, it is quite useful, and we should draw conclusions from it. It's been a very successful year. Minister! They meant it would be 200 women a year. It's 60 right now. I therefore fully support efforts to improve information and public relations in order to achieve this number of 200. It should also be noted that one thing has gone wrong, namely the follow-up career. The figures you have expected in this respect are likely to have not been reached, but have failed due to the legal procedure. It must concern us, however, that ten women have quit the service. That may be absolutely a few, but relatively 16 percent of women have failed. Mr. Jung! This has something to do with what Mr Gaál has done. What bothers me is not the obstacle track to and for myself, but what bothers me is the K.o. criterion obstacle track. There are much more intelligent methods of assessing performance today. This benefit is not related to the following use. I would never come to the idea of putting on the obstacle track as a K.o. criterion at a doctor's office, because this woman is going to be a doctor. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum.]] I wouldn't put it on the pharmacy as a K.o. criterion either. But that's where it happens! In order to be admitted, there is another essential point in the training, and that is camera aid. Maybe you should also think about changing this cliff. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I may still be guilty of the question – in the short term: Why not volunteer use in the militia, voluntary use in foreign service? – We have agreed on this – this is to be read in the government template, which is not so old to read – that it is a matter of enabling a profession, and that it is a matter of carrying out a profession for vocational training. That's what it's supposed to be, and that's what it's going to be. Reminiscing the call for tender of the colleague Bauer... [[Call to the ÖVP: But that was not yet a reason!]] The government template clearly states that... other military services cannot also be used on a voluntary basis. – This is clearly in there: It is therefore not considered to be included in the military or reserve state. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I still don't think it's right!]] As far as your own Minister's government proposal is concerned, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24785	Mr Dr. Ofner has now been reported on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24806	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are no more real gender domains these days: After the line pilots, the judges, the prosecutors, the Gendarmerie, the police and others more, the army has also opened up to women. I have the impression, however, that it is sometimes not so inadvertent to let women stumble in terms of content through formal equal treatment. The position is that everyone is treated equally, everyone is checked at the same time, everyone has to perform identical services, and it is quite clear that for reasons of different physical constitution this simply cannot go well. Women have physical conditions other than men, and it is the obstacle track that has been cited so often, which is found there as a drop-out point. They say: They're supposed to come only; we're all treating the same thing, because at the latest at the "low pit" "they're going to die." We can treat them calmly; at some point they all fall out, because they are a little smaller, they have less power to move out of this pit or to take the big steps on the "goat ladder". This means that everything is done by itself – with strict respect for equality. I believe that this is not quite an honest process. I believe that one should be prepared to do so, but to draw the consequence of the fact that women on a large average are built differently from men, except for women in the service sector, and that, where it is not really necessary to fight and survive – and this is certainly not the case with the "low pit" – one has different criteria or, if one wants to create identical criteria, has to reduce them to this touch, which would also make it possible for women to get through and not fail. What I'm concerned with is honesty in these things: We can't say at a glance that we're all dealing with the same thing, and in the backlog we know exactly that the same thing is wrong in this case, because the women and the men are uneven. If I treat everyone the same way, I'll make sure that the women can't rise. – I would like to see more honesty in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24846	Mr Grabner has also been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24867	Good morning! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The ranks are "full" by listeners, each "look out so carefully"! Many have already agreed for this day, some will still say goodbye. – I don’t need that, so I can get very brief today. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I am glad that women are in the federal army, in particular 15 top athletes – I only mention Vera Lischka and Uschi Profanter – and I hope that next year the Olympic Games will be successful. Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24903	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Time left: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24925	Mr President. Minister! As the last speaker of the last debate on defence, as I believe, it is up to me to sum up a bit during this legislative period. – The topic of "Women in the Army" is an important social-political issue, but it is ultimately a side-by-side exhibition. Mr. Minister! If I summarize the debate we have already held today, I can only say: It's been better for the federal army. I'd even say he's pretty bad. Optimizism and idealism have given way to pragmatism, the cadres are getting older and older; on the other hand, the production of staff officers continues unabated. The device is partly at the end, and the vital training is often partially sacrificed for assistance. – Minister, summa summarum: Their successors will have much to do. We're on the side of the federal army, we're on the side of a strong state defense. In this sense, a happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24960	Finally, Mr Antoni, Mr President of the Commission, has been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e24982	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Very soon: ==References== Thus, in 1998, women also have access to the Austrian Federal Army, and in March 1999 the Federal Minister of State Defense submitted a report reporting on the services of women in the Federal Army. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Antoni, you're the fifth one who tells us the same!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Everyone tells us how long it is that it is a year...!]] I believe that the success of this report is an acceptable start, it is also proof that the National Council has made the right decision when it gives women access – voluntary access! – has made it possible for the army. A very brief comment on Mr Scheibner's motion for a resolution: I believe that it will be necessary, in the next legislative period, to establish a solid discussion, in particular with women, on this project, which we believe must be absolutely voluntary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25031	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We do not have the rapporteur's final word and therefore we are voting, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Defence to take note of this report in III-188 of the Supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on measures to increase women's training services (Milizdienst). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request of the National Defence Committee to take note of its report in 1583. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25101	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25147	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00179_d7e25184	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 1178/A to 1181/A. Questions 6564/J to 6597/J were also raised. I call the next National Council meeting for today, Wednesday, 14. July 1999, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
