ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1565	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you all very warmly and explain the 173. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 169. Meeting of 19. ==References====External links== The meeting of the National Council was suspended and left unconstrained in the Parliamentary Directorate, thus being deemed approved. Members Smolle, Großruck, Dr. Lukesch, Dr. Schwimmer, Dr. Puttinger, Mag. Frieser, Dr. Rasinger, Haidlmayr, Ing. Langthaler, Mag. Kammerlander and Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1599	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the remuneration of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: Mr Hannes Farnleitner, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, is represented by Mr. Dr. Fassleven, Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family, Dr. Martin Bartenstein is appointed by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] There are two statements on business treatment. The first comes from Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1630	Mr President. It is unfortunately also at this meeting of the National Council once again that the Federal Government or representatives of the Federal Government make no statement on the current occasion and on the subject of this meeting. We have therefore tabled a urgent request for civil and civil protection addressed to the Federal Chancellor. But it is now so – especially the discussion of the last days has shown this – that this is a cross-sectional matter, so that in addition to the Federal Chancellor, a number of other council ministers are also responsible. There has been a very intense debate on this, there has been mutual debt allocations by the individual departments, there have been alleged reform proposals, and I therefore believe that it would be very useful for at least the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Transport to be present at this debate in addition to the Federal Chancellor. I apply for it, according to § 18 para. 3 to demand that these two ministers be present in addition to the Chancellor during the debate on the urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1664	It is therefore about the presence of Mr Farnleitner and Mr Einm. Mr Dr. Khol, Member of the Commission, on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1688	Mr President. High house! I would like to inform you that Minister Farnleitner is present at the House and is not represented because, in view of this special meeting, he has cancelled his trip with the President of the Federal Republic of Japan in order to be able to attend this meeting here in the House. It may be that this communication has not been made up to this point through the post office of three different bodies, and I would therefore ask not to use the representation.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1718	Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Farnleitner will be here!]] – Then I share what we have just heard with – we may consider this information to be authentic –: The apologies of Mr Farnleitner, the Federal Minister, are in opposition. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: Mr President!]] Then Mr Scheibner's request probably refers only to the presence of the Minister of State. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1764	I support the request made by the Group of the European Free Alliance. In the face of a disaster, I too consider it not only desirable, but also necessary that the competent members of the Federal Government appear before the institution called for the control of the government and also make statements. It is important for me to say here in the public, too, that the statements we have received from the government groups in the presidency, according to which it is not customary in this legislative period, that, at the request of the opposition, government members make statements, find it sad and embarrassing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1792	Next word on business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1813	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister One who has many abilities is not yet given the gift of bilocation. At the time when we will discuss this urgent request, Mr Federal Minister One, a few meters from here, will have to be present in the Federal Council on the agenda items concerning him. It is therefore to the dissociation of this House, but also the other Chamber of this House, which of the two parliamentary commitments must be carried out by Mr Bundesminister One. If the Liberal Group in the Federal Council on Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs If you don't, he'll be happy to be here. But it is certainly not possible for both Parliamentary Chambers to take a decision on the presence of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1840	Next word: Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1862	I have also expressed my regret in the presidency that the relevant members of the government are only prepared to make a statement before this House on the detour of urgent questions and urgent requests. I think it would be a political responsibility to make statements on its own. But we probably have to deal with a urgent request today. Because it has now been interpreted that only the presence of the Minister of Transport is requested: I very much welcome the request - in case Mr Scheibner does not make his request here again - to ask for the Minister for Economic Affairs to be present and support the request for the Minister for Transport's presence. [[Calls: He's already sitting there.]] I am saying this because the session will now be suspended – I am assuming – and therefore I do not know how it will look in three hours. I therefore also request the presence of the Minister for Transport, because it is a question of what this House expresses, whose presence is necessary here, regardless of the fact that the Federal Council is meeting in parallel.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1908	The National Council has not decided to hold a debate on business treatment, but we have only stated in practice that, in the event of a speech or a request for business treatment, any other group will have the opportunity to comment on it. – If another point should appear, we can continue this procedure. Mr Scheibner! I would like to begin by referring to the application for the presence of the Minister of Transport in accordance with § 18 para. 3 votes in favour. If I understand correctly, then if Mr Scheibner did not keep his request for the present Minister of Economic Affairs, Mrs Dr Schmidt would make such a request. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But I would say that Mr Farnleitner assured me that he did not fly to Japan due to this special meeting and will be present from 3 p.m. until the end of this debate. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: But, Mr President, how do we solve the problem that both houses may want to have the same Minister at the same time? This is constitutionally not soluble, but a physical problem!]] I am only willing to allow further statements of speech if a request for a debate is made. If no such request is made, then there is no debate either, ladies and gentlemen. We are therefore now voting on Mr Scheibner's request for the presence of the Minister for Transport. – The Members of the House have the opportunity to accept or object to this request, and one of these two reactions would also solve the problem just raised. We shall therefore vote on Mr Scheibner's request in accordance with § 18 para. 3 GoG on the presence of the Federal Minister for Transport. – This application does not find a majority; it is therefore rejected. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The request for a vote on the request concerning the presence of the Minister for Economic Affairs will not be maintained; therefore, no further request should be put to the vote. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e1968	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 GoG to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2092	I also announce that according to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the self-employed request of the Scheibner Member with order number 1107/A (E) concerning the lack of protection of the Federal Government in civil and civil protection matters. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the examination of this urgent request shall be fixed at 15 a.m. in the circumstances given. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 5730/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2116	I would also like to say that the request made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, is a short debate on Question No 5730/AB on Question No 6063/J by Mr Mag. Mr Maier and his comrades on Austrian road tunnel systems and open security issues were held by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. In view of the fact that a urgent request has been requested for today's sitting, this brief debate will take place following the examination of the urgent request. I am now interrupting the meeting until 3 p.m. and will start the urgent examination of the 1107/A (E) application after resumption of the negotiations. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.14 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.) )
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2155	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places. I'll start the interrupted session again. We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1107/A (E). If I see it correctly, Mr Scheibner has reported on business treatment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2192	Mr President. I'm seeing my astonishment. Mr Wittmann State Secretary at the Government Bank. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Should he go again?]] It would be nothing to find if he were there because he expressed his interest in this matter, but now it is obvious that there are rumors, according to which the Federal Chancellor – contrary to other statements and promises! – I do not want to attend this meeting, because it is said – and I say – that it has already left for Cologne at the EU summit. I cannot believe this because, as I said, there were other communications before. He's on a private plane anyway. I therefore make the request in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council may decide that the Federal Chancellor is present at this meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2236	They have heard this request. It is an application for business treatment to be voted on. Mr. Dr. Kostelka in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2261	Mr President. High house! The President has not informed us in any way that there will be a urgent request to the Federal Government or the Federal Chancellor. If one had done so, we would not have been able to say that the Federal Chancellor must now be in Cologne in the evening to participate in a Troika discussion with the social partners. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's 15 o'clock, please!]] This is a very important task. I assume that all in the House are an important concern for the creation of jobs in Europe, and that is the content of this discussion today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2311	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that a State Secretary is entitled to parliamentary representation under the Federal Constitution will not dispute anyone; that each member of the parliament is entitled to make a request as Mr Scheibner has put him, is no longer a question of dispute. These two facts are clear. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That already has system that...!]] If Mr Scheibner makes such a request, we must also vote on it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I shall do so now. I ask those Members who give their approval to Mr Scheibner's request for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Request by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades to the Federal Government concerning the lack of protection of the Federal Government in matters of civil and civil protection (1107/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2363	I can tell the House that the urgent request, which forms the basis of today's debate, has in the meantime been duplicated and distributed to all Members, so that reading by a writer is not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2415	According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Scheibner, has now been given the floor. His speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2436	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really think it is immense that the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, who holds the main responsibility for civil and civil protection, does not want to attend this meeting today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka! It may already be – we have already learned – that the Federal Chancellor has an important meeting in Cologne in the evening, but it has been signaled that he will be here at least until 5 p.m., since he is flying to Cologne with a private jet anyway. But it seems he needs four or five hours after Cologne – that is what he does not mind. But as a parliamentarian, I say to you: He should be present especially in the case of such an important matter, on which the Federal Chancellor has always spoken. We have already seen him in other disasters, where he has medicated with bubbling water in rubber boots between two dates – between a parliamentary appointment and a ball visit. That this Federal Chancellor is more important to the election of NATO Secretary-General Solana as "Mr CFSP" than to discuss measures to improve civil and civil protection with us here in Parliament, I really think scandalous! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor has a coordination competence: on the one hand, as Chancellor, of course, as Chairman of the Federal Government – he is responsible for splitting civil and civil protection into eight places, ladies and gentlemen! – and on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen in particular of the Social Democrats, since 1986 the Federal Chancellor has also included crisis management in the event of major disasters. Since 1986 – at that time the event was the reactor disaster of Chernobyl – the Federal Chancellor has the competence to operate crisis management. Then it is said again and again: Well, that's only true for nuclear accidents! – Ladies and gentlemen! I have the speech here to the Council of Ministers of the time. There is no word in that! The cause was the reactor disaster, but this is where precautions are being taken for all future, non-dayly hazards that require increased administrative and information requirements for the relevant bodies – and this is interesting – and it is not even necessary that they serve to remedy immediate or already occurring risks to life and health. Even economic crisis situations are included here. So there's a clear responsibility of the Federal Chancellor. Those who do not believe this should ask Mr Lösnak, because he signed this Council of Ministers lecture as Minister of the Interior at the time. Don't stand here constantly by misinformation from the responsibility! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I am glad that we have at least succeeded in having two competent ministers here in the National Council so that we can discuss with them. The meaning of this meeting should also be – but not only – to work out the tragic accident in the Tauerntunnel. It is intended in particular to ensure that we discuss and also decide measures that will allow us to avoid having to discuss such disasters again in the future. Recently we had to see again and again: After such disasters, for such great accidents that have claimed human lives and injuries, there is always great concern – this is also natural and quite clear – and there are demands, above all, by the Federal Government itself. If the media interest fails a little, there is no longer much to hear from the implementation of these demands. One forgets the whole thing again, until the next time the next disaster occurs, all these things will come up again. I would remind you, Minister of Economic Affairs, that: What did you really find out after Lassing's pit accident? – You have said that there was or has been an unclear management structure in crisis management, disaster management, there are problems in the interaction of the forces. In a press release, the Federal Chancellor: Due to this tragic accident, he – the Federal Chancellor – demands a new and better coordinated crisis management in order to be better prepared for any type of disaster. - That was on the 23rd. ==References== What did the Federal Chancellor do? – He has set up a working group in the Federal Chancellery, which should coordinate these works. This working group – and this a three-quarters year after this announcement! – could not pass a final report to this day, because crisis bars are now to be set up in the individual resorts, but this has not yet been completed. Who knows if this has even been started! That is why there are no measures here yet. A three-quarters year would have had time to use not only a working group in this important area but also to bring about a adjustment of this competence jungle, so that not eight areas are responsible for disaster protection, but that this competence merges in a ministry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the avalanche disaster of Galtür it was similar: We have seen that we do not have sufficient helicopter capacity to carry out evacuations. A few weeks earlier, the competent minister of the department has said here in the National Council, Austria has a sufficiently large helicopter fleet internationally, and a new acquisition has no priority. – Then this accident occurred, and soon you all made the demand that helicopters should now be purchased. A few days later, one has already argued for the financing and then has concluded a compromise that is unlikely to be sufficient to achieve an actual improvement in this regard. And what about the Tauerntunnel, ladies and gentlemen? – Minister One comes to the Council of Ministers, and suddenly everything goes very fast. For a three-quarters year, nothing has been done since Lassing's accident, and now, after just a few days, you present to the Federal Government what you have already worked out over the weekend: Security measures, road tunnel checks and so on. We know, however, that you wrote to the head of the state of Salzburg Schausberger shortly before, in April of this year – this letter is known now – that you believe, in view of a second tube through the Tauerntunnel, that it is not a priority that this traffic is only touristic and therefore you could not support an extension of the Tauerntunnel with a second tube. But, Minister Farnleitner, you do quite differently. Although it is not necessary to praise the Minister of Transport but at least to admit that he is – late, but still! – has become active and is now making at least proposals. You, Minister Farnleitner, have not even made it that far, because if I look at your presentation to the Council of Ministers, I wonder what this is supposed to be. In this paper you can read or refer to the fact that Austria's tunnels have a very high and uniform level of equipment in international comparison, that there are sufficient safety exercises and that a high level of safety is essential for older tunnels too. Minister for Economic Affairs! These are not the consequences we demand of you, but we now demand that you draw lessons from this disaster and finally take action against all the road tunnels that exist in Austria, especially those that are just one-way, to check for all the safety provisions, and that you deal with all the possibilities in your power to deal with these shortcomings as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Minister Farnleitner, say that the safety standards are sufficient. It has now been published an ADAC study, according to which the tunnel, which now has to take up the additional traffic volume after the loss of the Tauern Tunnel, namely the Felbertauern Tunnel, is estimated to be the worst of all tunnels throughout Austria, which leads to safety. Or: The Vorarlberg Landesrat Gorbach already pointed out in 1995 that the Amberg tunnel urgently needs a second tube, that the ventilation systems are out of date and that it will temporarily be blocked if traffic continues to rise so much. That was 1995! As far as tomb tunnels are concerned, we know that the ventilation is outdated. 13 tunnels are run one-tube, in 13 tunnels what happened in the Tauerntunnel can happen again every day! – However, they do not act. They say it's all right. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really irresponsible by the Federal Government how easily it has dealt with warnings. Already in 1995 there was a fire in the Pfänndertunnel with three dead. A few weeks ago, the disaster occurred in the Montblanc tunnel. – No response to that! On the contrary! Mr President, you should have issued a regulation on the transport of dangerous goods since September. They have not been able to issue this important regulation in more than half a year to limit the transport of dangerous goods. The ÖAMTC, I think, did not say wrong: If one had been implemented at the latest following the findings of the disaster in the Montblanc Tunnel that the French government had then put into effect in Austria, this accident would have been avoided in the Tauerntunnel. Mr. Minister One! I am not quoting a liberal, nor an ÖVP politician, but I quote a politician from your ranks, namely former Member Hofmann, who meant – some time ago, just after the findings from the accident in the Montblanc Tunnel – that there would have been three times the possibility to expand the Tauern Tunnel: The first time in 1988, when the funding was already provided when the basic redundancies were already organized, there were concepts, but the policy could not decide to carry out this important project. Another opportunity would have existed after accession to the European Union, as well as the possibility to implement enlargement with EU funding. – But no response on the part of politics! And there would have been an opportunity – after a helicopter crash – to carry out this expansion by means of the ASFINAG. Member of Parliament other than Hofmann, after the fire in the Montblanc tunnel, summarized: If something like this – hopefully not happening – would happen in the Tauerntunnel, then one should actually say that all those who have so far successfully prevented this will become morally responsible to the dead. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually have very little to add to that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We must finally, Mr President-in-Office of the German Chancellor, come to the conclusion that the security of the Austrian population is absolutely a priority. There is no If and But, there is no question of financial bottlenecks. There is also no reluctance to take part in any citizen initiative. When it comes to the security of the Austrians, only these interests have priority. There you have to take action with all your strength, and you must not hide behind any initiatives or financial difficulties! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we call for the rapid review of all these endangered tunnels and the rapid two-threaded extension on all high-performance lines. I believe that on a motorway, on a highway and above all in a tunnel, nothing has been lost in a counter-traffic area. Here you have to set absolute priorities, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can be – again! – do not hide behind the funding and do not say like Galtür again: Well, that must also be financed! Come on. You again, Minister Farnleitner, with your old demand for road pricing. You know, this hasn't been poured out yet. It has to be discussed for a long time until this can be implemented. I also wonder how much money this really brings in. We must act quickly, and I say to you: The money is available! 120 billion schillings contribute the drivers to the budget. 120 billion schilling! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you were to use a fraction of it – not to cover your budget deficits, but to expand the road network! – then all construction projects would be very easy to finance. Or else do you structure the disaster fund so that it is not the case that, if there is a surplus in the disaster fund that goes beyond 400 million schilling, this money must return to the Minister of Finance! In the years 1996/97 alone, 700 million schilling could have been spent on such security measures. Or: What about the question of European Union support? . You have failed to do so, even at the accession negotiations with the European Union, to call for clear support for the development of transit lines, both for rail and for road. The EU is promoting such measures, promoting transit traffic, promoting the development of railway and road lines – but not in Austria, because you should have set up initiatives by the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The European Union is promoting the development of interregional railways and motorways in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. The EU billions, including the billions of Austrians, are now going there because you have not been able to represent the interests of Austria. That would actually be to give the Federal Chancellor in his flight to Cologne. He is less concerned about NATO Secretary-General, but he is not seeking to extend the transit routes safely and quickly here in Austria, with the participation of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have always expressed our support for the fact that, of course, the carriage of trucks and, above all, the transport of dangerous goods is carried as far as possible to the railways. This should be the priority objective. Mr Verkehrsminister! Have the Austrian Federal Railways benefited enough in recent years to provide an attractive and also safe alternative to road transport? . I really want to question this, because the safety standards at the ÖBB are also absolutely rethinking and criticising – especially in tunnel construction, Mr. Minister. Last year, in the summer of 1998 – which is not an old tunnel – the Galgenberg tunnel was opened, connecting St. Michael and Leoben. There was a disaster exercise, but it had to be stopped because no equipment was available. That was a pure disaster. The forces could not even reach the tunnel because the Austrian Federal Railways do not have safe cars from smoke. In an answer to a question by the Minister of Economic Affairs, the "good" tip occurred, in which one proceeds according to the principle of self-protection, self-saving. In other words, as far as they can, the train passengers have to jump out of the train and walk 750 meters along the track until they hopefully, when they walk in the right direction, encounter rescue forces somewhere. [[Abg. Aumayr:... to the no longer going! Scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That can't be the alternative! What if the next accident happens in a railway tunnel, as recently in Italy? Is there another debate here when the dead are to be complained? Do we then have to listen to your demands for yourself again, because you are not willing to take forward-looking precautions today? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! It would be better to invest the sum of 37 million schilling, which you put into the self-employment campaign alone last year, in studies or review measures to secure the railway tunnels. But there are these shortcomings also in other areas of disaster prevention. What about the protection of the Austrian population from the effects of nuclear radiation or chemical substances? In August 1998 – unfortunately, it is so that you can always rely on concrete examples – there was a chemical accident in Linz. As a result, there was a discussion in which it was asked how many Linzers actually exist. – There are just 8,000 protected areas for the 211 000 Linzers. For 8,000 out of 211 000 people! And throughout Austria there are public protection buildings for just 3 percent of the population! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] 3 per cent of Austrians can work in public protection buildings Find refuge – but, ladies and gentlemen, 100 percent of the Austrian Federal Government! Because they have provided for themselves. For them, accommodation is guaranteed in appropriate shelters, but not for the population. It is not about a major nuclear war, but about possible disruptions in nuclear power plants, it is about possible accidents in chemical factories, where it would be sufficient if the population could find refuge in such shelters for hours or a few days. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, in 1996 they even reduced the funds for the expansion of protected areas, bearing in mind the savings package. For example, civil protection, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important institution. Mr Gaál is always very good and courageous initiatives, but they are completely neglected by the Federal Government. For example, a siren sample will be carried out. Ask the population once, and ask here among the 183 MPs whether everyone knows how to behave when the sirens cry out. There is an information deficit in this respect. No human knows what the different siren tones mean, and no man knows how and where to find refuge. The helpers in such disasters – whether they are the federal army, the Red Cross or the voluntary fire brigades – do great things. You deserve our recognition. But your support is missing, and these should be offered by the Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would also be interesting to think about civil protection. I can't understand why in Galtür you didn't get the federal soldiers you requested and only 35 civilians were involved in this disaster effort because there are too few. Once you have the foreign missions of the Federal Army soldiers, there are more possibilities in this area too! But it would also be an important thing to improve the skills – I have already mentioned this. A ministry should be responsible for civil and civil protection. We liberals have proposed the Ministry of State Defense – it should be the Ministry of the Interior. In any case, it would be important to fix the fragmentation in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we should clearly also show responsibility for the disaster in the Tauerntunnel, but we should first and foremost draw knowledge from the mistakes and, above all, decide on measures for the future to prevent such disasters in the future. I hope that there will be an open discussion and clear results. The German Chancellor's disinterest, however, was a bad start for this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2589	In order to give an opinion on the subject-matter of the discussion, § 74a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Secretary of State. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2610	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Federal Chancellor, I would like to comment on the urgent request of the FPÖ as follows: Immediate occasion for your request is the tragic accident in the Tauerntunnel last weekend. The Austrian Federal Government particularly regrets the victims of this fire accident, and our deep participation applies to the victims' families. In this case, however, the chronology of the events shows that the authorities and forces have responded exemplaryly and quickly because of the plans of action and actions tested in the appropriate exercises. I would like to take this opportunity to thank and acknowledge all those involved in this difficult and extremely dangerous commitment on behalf of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not least because of the personal use of each individual, human lives could be saved and much greater damage prevented. Even in the avalanche accident of the Paznauntal, the operation of all the forces was recognized both nationally and internationally as exemplary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In particular, cooperation among the federal states and also at international level should be particularly positive. Let me now make some basic statements on state crisis management. The state crisis management was decided by the Federal Government on 3 July. In 1986, it was set up by the Federal Chancellery of the Austrian Federal Republic on the basis of the experience of the impact of Chernobyl's reactor disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] As indicated in the text of the ministerial presentation, state crisis management should always be called up when situations arise in which, in particular, public administration and, above all, those bodies whose role lies in safeguarding national interests, are expected to act quickly and coordinatedly to address emerging risks. The Federal Government's decision also makes it clear that State crisis management is not about changing the formal decision-making structures, for example, in the sense of a concentration of responsibility, but rather about improving coordination and the flow of information through measures. The management of the crisis is therefore without prejudice to the decision-making powers of the respective administrative bodies. It is also clear that this Federal Government, including the main legal interests and the media, should not be an operational body within the meaning of an operational management, but should ensure the short- and longer-term coordination of administrative measures in crisis situations. The tasks of state crisis management are thus clearly defined by the task of local disaster response. This makes sense because the fight against a local disaster must take place and the operation cannot and should not take place from a far-away centre. This was also expressed repeatedly by the country's disaster protection experts during the annual work session on state crisis management. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] In order to create a federal constitutional general competence to combat exceptional disasters, the same is true. The essential resources for the fight against disasters lie with the countries, which is useful for the reasons already mentioned. The creation of the required federal general competence would therefore not be expected to be a decisive advantage. It is therefore more appropriate that the central federal authorities focus on the necessary coordination and information. [[Abg. Aumayr: You're right!]] In this sense, a comprehensive framework for the protection of the population in the event of accidents in nuclear power plants has been drawn up in a multi-year cooperation between the Federal Radiation Experts and those of the countries. [[Abg. Young: An image of helplessness!]] A general competence of the Federal Chancellor for Civil Protection is therefore not given, would not be appropriate for the reasons just mentioned and would not have brought any additional benefits to the fire control in the Tauerntunnel due to the exemplary organisation of rescue measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In principle, civil protection in Austria can be achieved in three Sectors include: in the provision of authorities – this includes, in addition to drawing up legal bases and international cooperation, above all, the warning and information of the population and the coordination of the forces – in the provision of intervention organisations and in private arrangements. In the federal states, there are comprehensive disaster aid laws governing the use of aid organisations and establishing uniform implementation lines. Civil protection plans, alarm and evacuation plans are planned for countries, districts and municipalities. Ensuring that communication is as slow as possible as possible and the coordination of all necessary measures is an essential prerequisite for effective crisis management. For this reason, the Federal Warning Centre and the Landeswarnzentrale are set up in the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The Federal Warning Centre is a permanent establishment for trans-regional and international civil protection. It is directly and permanently linked to the Command Area of the Directorate-General for Public Security at the Federal Ministry of the Interior. In addition, there is constant contact with the state warning centres, all the competent national and federal authorities, the aid and rescue organisations such as fire brigades and the Red Cross, as well as similar operational centres abroad. The uniform training of the staff required in your application is already being coordinated at the civil protection schools of the countries, in the schools of the civil service organisations and at the civil protection school of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Young: Why is there no binding training for district leaders, Mr. State Secretary? Give an answer to that! Don't just read down!]] The Civil Protection School of the Federal Ministry of the Interior is to be understood as a cross-sectoral training and training facility. Particular attention will be paid to the issues of civil protection, radiation protection and the transport of dangerous goods. In addition to numerous national exercises at national, district and local level, large-scale international exercises are also taking place to prepare for various serious cases. I reject the accusation to the Federal Government that we are missing an offensive course in anti-atomic policy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How?]] Since the Federal Government's nuclear energy policy has repeatedly been the subject of debates here in the House over the past few weeks and months, I distance myself from a new list of the Federal Government's extensive activities. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What results do you have?]] However, I would like to stress that we have our nuclear policy strategy with the three pillars – first of all: Reduction of risks to the Austrian population and the environment, second: energy-efficient cooperation with the reform states of Central and Eastern Europe and thirdly: Continue the development of international law – with all the means available at all times. We are committed to an active anti-atomic policy! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haigermoser and Mr Koppler.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In this context, I would point out that the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection was on 19 June. A statement to the House on the current issues of nuclear energy policy, in which it announced a comprehensive and concrete action plan. The draft action plan submitted by it is at the moment the subject of intensive deliberations by the members of the Federal Government concerned with this matter. Finally, let me stress the following: The structures and civil and civil protection facilities existing in Austria have proved themselves to be successful several times in the past, ensuring rapid intervention and effective coordination of the forces. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you read something other than read it out?]] It is also crucial in the future that the necessary assistance and protection measures can be implemented and coordinated quickly and efficiently in the case of use on the ground. This is ensured by the measures of the Federal Government. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2757	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This thanks we can't join!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Almost read without error!]] We are now going into the debate. It is known that in the debate speaking times are limited by 10 minutes. As the first speaker, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. At your request, the clock will be set at 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2800	Ladies and gentlemen! It is really a very serious disregard for this Parliament that the Federal Chancellor has not come to this special meeting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, as the first representative of this Parliament, you should feel that this is just as bad as we do from the opposition. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You explained yesterday after the President in a telephone call to me that Mr Bundeskanzler was coming. In other words, you have said that he is aware of this special meeting because the Federal Chancellor wants to hear from us what we have to say about this disaster. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I said there was no explanation! That's right, too!]] That is what you said, Mr Kostelka. Admit yourself to that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Now don't exaggerate! We should...]] Mr State Secretary! They have said that no concentration of competence is sought and that no general competence is required, unless it is within the meaning of the Federal Chancellor. I admit that, but it is the task of the top crisis management – and this is what the Federal Chancellor wants to be – that it is not accepted that there is such a skill confusion at the federal level. It must be the responsibility of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as the first coordinator that we are finally making this adjustment of competence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that something is wrong in dealing with disasters is also evidenced by the fact that, after each disaster, the unpleasant feeling remains that it should have happened differently. In fact, in each disaster we experience the same pattern: Everyone looks horrified, everyone says something has to change, action needs to be taken, but the last cleanups are scarcely over, one forgets everything again, and it remains that a Commission should be set up once again, by which a next accident or disaster should be better dealt with. This, as my clubman has already said, began with Chernobyl when the then Federal Chancellor said it had to be a management responsible for disasters. In fact, however, nothing has changed since then! The countries are still responsible for the construction of protected areas, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for the construction of protected areas in the Federal Buildings. The Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Ministry of State Defense is responsible for the stockpiling! The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the alarm system, for health care the Ministry of Health. It cannot be in the sense of effectively combating and reprocessing disasters that there are so many responsibilities there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So although the Federal Chancellor after Chernobyl has used crisis management for himself, he obviously does not feel responsible for major disasters! My colleague Dr. Povysil has asked how this crisis management would work, there would be a major chemical accident. As an example of this, the Linz chemical park was used in the city of Linz. The Federal Chancellor replied: This is "not in my field of execution", but it would be under "technical disturbance", under "health service" and "voluntary measures". – So please, a major chemical accident would simply not affect this crisis management! What is it for then, ladies and gentlemen? At Lassing, the German Chancellor was not satisfied with his crisis management itself. That is why he has reinvented something new, namely that each ministry should have its own crisis staff. Even the processing of the tragedy of Galtür did not work, as we have seen. There was no civil protection at all, for example, there were only volunteers and members of the Federal Government who are still busy in cleaning up work. Ladies and gentlemen! To date, there is no serious strategy on how to really combat such accidents and disasters. This is not only our claim, but also the Swiss expert, whom the Minister of Economic Affairs has consulted. It has said that the crisis management system is not properly established in Austria. The overall organization simply does not fit! It would therefore be high time for something to happen at last in crisis management. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I've already cut civil protection on my clubman. We have already tabled a motion for a resolution in 1995 calling for the extension of civil protection to include comprehensive civil protection and the establishment of all humanitarian measures to deal with crisis situations, in particular by natural events or technical incidents. – Nothing has happened in this respect to this day! If there were not so many volunteers working until the fall of time who had to take a vacation to do their humanitarian service, then the victims would really be lost. We have 8,000 civilians in the year, but 35 are involved in a disaster like in Galtür! I therefore think it would be high time to think about how to build a comprehensive civil protection service. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because the next disaster can happen in Bälde. I would like to point out that the short-sightedness of the members of the Federal Government is very close to him, as has already been said. For example, at the Lainzer Tunnel, only one tube is planned again. The representative of the MA 68 has said that in tunnels of such length it is virtually impossible for rescue teams to approach the accident site in the event of an accident with fire or pollution in the reasonable time. Do you know what the transport minister did? – He has just as neglected this opinion as that of a Swiss company, which was marked "overdue" by the Minister. This Lainzer tunnel will be the next problem in the entire tunnel landscape, my dear ladies and gentlemen! I warn you to build this tunnel only with a single tube. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say a few words about that anti-atomic line, which the Secretary of State has emphasized in this way. I recall that in 1988 the young generation of the Socialist Party said to be the then Federal Chancellor – I quote –: We invite you to speak against the construction of the Temelin nuclear power plant on behalf of the Austrian government as well as the Austrian population. – End of the quote. Refuse Now They are even tingling the EU's enlargement with the fact that the Czech Republic is being stopped not to put Temelin into operation if it wants to join the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, your anti-atom line is really not very credible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My colleagues will make a further request, in which we strongly represent the line that Temelin should not go into operation and that your crisis management should work better. I would ask you to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2904	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e2926	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A very tragic accident has happened in the Tauerntunnel. I think that the relatives of the unfortunate deserve our deepest compassion. The liberals have noted in their urgent request that 23 dead and 203 injured in the Austrian road tunnels between 1995 and 1997. Of course, these figures must be taken into account, but it should be said that in the Austrian railway tunnels there was no one dead or injured at the same time. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, a total of 3,342 people were killed on Austrian roads during this period and 155 000 people were injured. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not all that hangs is a comparison!]] What do I mean, High House, ladies and gentlemen? Transport is a dangerous matter, Mr President. There are many reasons, many reasons why something happens. I do not want to put these figures in the foreground, but it is clear that traffic on the road is simply the most dangerous way of moving forward. This is to be recorded in comparison to the rail – and even in comparison to the aircraft and to the shipping! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is a need for a large number of measures to increase road safety and, so to speak, to rehabilitate dangerous points. Construction measures are one of the ways to achieve this. But what is particularly true of me in this request for freedom is the fact that, as always, this tragic accident in the Tauerntunnel makes a clear attempt to beat the famous political small money. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we have already believed that we are discussing matters.]] Actually, I understand your two first speakers, we should now discuss a division of competence in the Federal Ministries, because you really want nothing but a super-ministerium of security. Colleague Partik-Pablé would like to conduct an anti-atom discussion here. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this all have to do with disaster protection?]] I do not hide, ladies and gentlemen, that I too wish to have some changes in the competences of the individual Federal Ministries. I would also be right if we could bring together all the transport, infrastructure, training and technology skills in one ministry and more. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not what we want!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You contradict yourself!]] But we do not need a special session to do so in coalition negotiations and in government talks. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But we can discuss already!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For this you have the party headquarters!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Parliamentaryism is not your business, gel, Parnigoni?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It is interesting to note that in your request with the famous federalism you have nothing more to do with it, for you demand that the Austrian fire brigade and the rescue system should clearly move into the competence of the federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should have been careful!]] I am not sure whether you have also spoken to the head of state of Carinthia about this, because it always tells us something different, something about the so-called free state. You should stop talking to split tongues! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! No excitement! – It's a bit remarkable, by the way. They have motified the fact that, by the decision of the Dangerous Goods Transport Act, which, by the way, was unanimously adopted, the Road Tunnel Regulation by 1. ==References====External links== That's right! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr Parnigoni! You are almost as good as Mr. State Secretary!]] As a result, there was a new draft regulation, and countries were invited to deliver opinions on it. Everyone did that. The last statement came – very late! ==References== ==References====External links== [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] A certain Mr. Landesrat Reichhold of the FPÖ is responsible for this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's to be held... [[Abg. Scheibner: You're wrong-informed!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Haigermoser:... in opposition!]] In this draft regulation, for example, the obligation to accompany the transport of dangerous goods is a particular safety element. In the opinion of Mr Reichhold of 20. May is among other things – I quote, 1999 –: [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What a year was that?]] [[Abg. Koppler: Very fresh!]] Point 1.4.5: The obligation to accompany the transport of dangerous goods – which might not be bad for you – is not necessary in this case, it is therefore necessary to delete the entire §5. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] They require special measures on the one hand, but on the other hand their representatives in the countries reject such security measures! – That’s the truth, and that’s the picture you offer, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion another word about your special "belief". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] The fact is, Mr. Ofner – which I have not only heard, but also read: Now, of course, you are demanding the construction of a second tube in the Tauerntunnel, and you are now doing a little easier, because your party chairman Haider has no longer had Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Grasser on his team. Grasser fought vehemently against the construction of a second tunnel tube in 1997. Today, you are of a different opinion from the liberties, and I would like to say that here, because the public has a right to learn about your transformations, your diversity, your chameleon behavior. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, but you can be comforted: They are not alone when it comes to absurd reports relating to this tunnel accident. The head of state of Lower Austria is in your boat, I can assure you. That's how he meant – I quote –: The Semmering tunnel could not be built – according to Pröll – as there is actually no 100% security guarantee. It would only be built one tube, and this would have proved fatal in the disasters in the Montblanc tunnel and in the Tauerntunnel. And Pröll continues: At the end of the day, it is realistic not to do so much for the safety of a tunnel that there is still no disaster. I suppose Pröll spoke of the road tunnel on Semmering; otherwise it could not be. This road tunnel has not yet been approved, and Pröll still has every opportunity to work to make it different. – But if Landeshauft Pröll meant the railway tunnel and said that the fiery advocates of the Semmering Tunnel should hold, then this is typical of the head of state of Lower Austria. Then it is true that under brusk the victims of this disaster, Pröll returns to his well-known worst populist tour, as he always does and exploits everything! That's really a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3198	Mr Parnigoni! On this sensitive issue, I would ask for a more careful choice of words!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3227	Ladies and gentlemen! It would be more important for Mr Pröll to turn to his actual duties and, as a transport representative of the State of Lower Austria, to ensure road safety and to carry out his control activities to which he is obliged. Mr Pröll, as well as Mr Farnleitner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and as I hear it, should also use Mr Vice-Chanceller Schüssel for a heavy truck-road pricing and, on this issue, prevail against the President of the Maderthaner Chamber of Commerce and its Secretary-General, who are both trying to prevent this sensible and important measure to shift transport to the rails. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Then you didn't listen well!]] Truck-road pricing would ultimately also contribute to increased cost reliability. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: In the same tone as the EU!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as tunnels are concerned, there will be no 100% safety at all in the future, but everything will be done to reduce the risk moment. But it must also be said quite clearly: People's responsibility in road transport will always have to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3279	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3314	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In view of the tragic event in the Tauerntunnel, we do not think of the ÖVP as trying to beat cheap political capital out of it, as it is now – I expect – the liberals have done. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also opposed to calling into question all the protection of disasters and thus unnecessarily and completely unfairly to the entire population! Civil protection works – even if you fail to talk to him, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Helmut! That's like the "Ringtheater" fire: it's all saved!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It would also be unqualified to make all these investigations debt allocations before the end and to stage a rather common political theater donor and to make things worse. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that this will certainly not bring you anything politically, because the electorate - so close to the EU election or to the national elections - knows very well that you are only trying to beat cheap political capital out of it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your own minister has commissioned an expert!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, have long seen through: You are not concerned with this, but there is only a political motive behind it! [[Abg. Gaugg: What is he talking about?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Our intention is certainly not to put something under the table, to beautify or even to want something impoverished. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The messenger is to blame!]] There must, of course, be clarified wherever this is useful and necessary. [["Oh, that's it!"- Call the liberals.]] There is a need to analyse errors and weaknesses and, of course, to discuss them. [[Abg. Gaugg: And we can't, can we?]] That is why I would like to thank Mr Farnleitner very much for having, out of respect for the House, cancelled his journey to Japan and for speaking and replying to us here and today. [[Ironic bravo call at the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Freeman:And the Federal Chancellor?]] Of this attitude of Mr Farnleitner, some others could cut off a disc, namely those who signal concern primarily in the face of the ongoing camera, but with their good advice and debt allocations do not usually address the right address. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... not opposition!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Colleague. Who's the right address? The Federal Chancellor?]] High house! Austria's tunnels are not considered to be bad in an international comparison. – On the contrary: Thanks to the level of safety, the operation of the security devices and the rapid intervention of the forces, we have gotten a lot bigger than in the case of the disaster in the Montblanc tunnel – so bad this disaster in the Tauerntunnel is still. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You must be "moderate"!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain!]] I would therefore like to say a warm thanks to the security and rescue forces, the volunteer fire brigade and the Red Cross for their rapid and truly exemplary use. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have prevented annoyance, they have done great work – and thus unquestionably demonstrated the correctness of the concept of civil society’s ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out that the accident balance in Austrian tunnels is in no way worse compared to other traffic accidents on motorways and highways. On motorways and highways there are 1.4 accidents per kilometer per year; in tunnels with road traffic, that is, one-way traffic, there are 0.5 accidents per kilometer and year; in tunnels there are about 0.7 accidents per kilometer and year significantly more. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it is necessary to clarify – even if these statistics may worsen due to the tragic Tauerntunnel accident – that: The accident balance in Tunnels is by no means worse than those on motorways and highways. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But this does not mean that the situation is impoverished and not even beautified at all, but it must already be made the right standards of comparison. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No doubt there have been errors that need to be shown and analysed with no help. And one of the main mistakes made was undoubtedly the one that hit the traffic lights in such a way that traffic stopped at the red phase in the tunnel. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is cheap little money now!]] Although this has been done in the intention to deal with traffic more quickly and to prevent longer congestion that has led to massive criticism last year, it must be noted that this was a mistake that should no longer occur in the future. It is also clear that this was not a mistake of the ÖSAG, but that it was a mistake of the Authority and that this authority is responsible to the Ministry of Transport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of the transport of dangerous goods is also always the subject of discussion on road transport. Federal Minister One has explained that he intends to take immediate action to ensure that he intends to have a basic ban on certain dangerous goods transport on all motorways and highways. It has also announced that, in future, such dangerous goods transport will in general be transferred to the rails with a view to safety. I agree with that in principle. That's a right measure. But we should not believe that this will solve all the problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, it should be noted that the corresponding regulation – the previous speakers have pointed out – which should regulate this, since the new Risk Goods Promotion Act with 1. ==References====External links== That is to say, we have no regulation at present, no regulation on which conditions and conditions dangerous goods can be carried out in the tunnel. We would have expected that, with the entry into force of the new Goods Promotion Act, the corresponding regulation would be adopted immediately, so that there would not be a time gap, the new hazards would result and that, as in this case, it might have contributed tragically to the fact that this accident occurred. Ladies and gentlemen! The requirement that dangerous goods transport should be carried out primarily on the rails undoubtedly has a certain logic and permission. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then it wasn't so stupid what we said!]] But of course we need to know that there are dangers in rail transport too. No one will be able to argue that rail transport is not very suitable for the distribution of goods on the surface. It works well and efficiently everywhere where the companies concerned also have corresponding railway lines. Wherever this is not the case, dangerous goods must be loaded up and unloaded, and precisely this transhipment is dangerous, as all the experts say. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that safety measures must also be taken for rail transport, because dangerous goods transport by rail often roll through residential areas with thousands of tons of dangerous goods. Thus, for example, in Schlößlberg in Upper Austria last year and also on the grounds of the chemistry Linz, where a railway wagon loaded with dangerous goods is exploded, the population was very much at risk. I would also like to point out that the Court of Auditors, in its 1997 activity report, criticised the lack of adequate implementation of the findings of the expert committee in the event of accidents by the railway authorities. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: It is not at all about the calculation of deficiencies and weaknesses in road or rail. Dangerous goods are and remain dangerous,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3604	Please have a real conclusion!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3619	... Whether they are transported on the road or on the rail. It is therefore necessary to establish and comply with uniform higher safety standards everywhere. We call on the Minister for Transport, particularly in the EU, to be introduced to ensure that more stringent security measures are taken in a uniform and European manner.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3652	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the speaking time and the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3677	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni said in his speech that the opinion of the Carinthian state government and, in particular, of Landeshauptmann's deputy Reichhold on this dangerous goods regulation only in May – I think he said, on 20 May. May – this is also a reason for the delay. - That's wrong. On the contrary, it is true that the Kärntner State Government's regulation was adopted on 21 January. ==References====External links==* Official website The Commission's opinion was delivered on 1 February 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3717	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3739	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I think it is right and good that Mr Wittmann has expressed his participation to those victims who have died in the Tauerntunnel. But, ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself: What about the participation for those family members whose family members died yesterday on the Pyhrn motorway by another – under quotations – "normal" traffic accident? – Four victims of death, overcrowded speed or perhaps fatigue of a truck driver who came on the countercar, crashed, four people dead. I think it is increasingly cynical... – No, Mr Leikam, I am also saying this in your direction, in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP, because your two transport spokespersons accuse the liberals of making political little money out of a disaster here. [[Abg. Leikam: Gilt as well, the participation!]] I have only remembered that, when it was still burning in the Tauerntunnel, on one hand, Mr Bundeskanzler Klima went to take a picture of himself on the spot. The Minister of the Interior also found it worth standing in front of the cameras. But he does not think it is worth coming to Parliament here and telling us what the necessary measures are, because the Federal Minister for the Interior has important tasks in this regard as far as control is concerned. On the other hand, Mr Farnleitner, on the other hand, has taken a picture directly on the spot, on the first day. But at least he thought it worth being here in Parliament today, and we also recognise this because this is a debate on road safety. In this context, I will concentrate on the issue of road safety, which should once be dealt with in this House as a single item on the agenda. This debate is a good opportunity, but it has nothing to do with political small money from this House, ladies and gentlemen, but the political small money has already been made by the government representatives by having been there with the ORF and holding her face in the camera, even if they could not do anything at all. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on Members of the Liberals.]] I am annoyed by this double-bedness – and I am now saying that quite consciously – of red and black because, for example, Mr. Landeshuppmann Schausberger knew nothing better to do than to say that we need a second tunnel tube absolutely and immediately. That's one of my indispensable demands, he said to the camera right after the accident. This is exactly the head of the state, who apparently was still on the 14th in cowardice before the people. May 1998 – I quote Schausberger – said: "First of all, noise protection, then second tunnel tube." – ==References== ==References== Nothing had happened in the Tauerntunnel. At that time he said: "First of all, we need noise protection measures elsewhere, then perhaps we'll talk" – you'll find out when you read the broadcast – "about other measures, in particular the second tube in the area of Tauerntunnel." – That was this Mr. Landeshupt who knew nothing better to do than then to stand in front of the camera and say that we need a second tube immediately. Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner has always been for the second tube. According to "NEWS", he needed the non-fathomable formulation that he was a "glorious defender" of the second tube. It is interesting that members of the government repeatedly make demands on themselves or perhaps call themselves somewhat unhappy as a glowing advocate of such measures, however, ladies and gentlemen, in a question of 25 May. In May of this year, Federal Minister Farnleitner said that the construction of the second tunnel tube for the Tauern tunnel and the Katschberg tunnel was primarily a question of financialability and – as it is a project in the road network transferred to the ASFINAG – whether it will be built depending on its financial possibilities after the completion of the gap. – In other words, he did not give priority to this measure, but he said: first, the gap is closed, and then perhaps the second tube is built. On the occasion of this tragic event, of course, the appropriate ministers claim to have always been for this. I have now made the effort to take one step at a time with regard to the concept which the Federal Minister of Agriculture has made in terms of road construction. That's the summary. The long version is here. You will be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, in that the word "security" does not occur at all. There's no such thing as that! There are four criteria for expanding the road network in Austria, but safety is not included. One might think that the reason for this is that the Federal Minister for Road Transport sees this as one-sided. Federal Minister One is much more foresightful. Although he would like to build the Semmering base tunnel one-way, over 22 kilometers, but with a parallel-guided probe, which is then to be led as rescue tunnels, which means that the remaining 12 kilometers will be self-saving for the passengers if something should happen. Self - Salvation Means Truth "Save yourself, who can," and if you can't, then you're guilty yourself. That is what we think is wrong access. Then I thought: Perhaps the Federal Minister, who gives himself much more modern here and says "rail instead of traffic blinds", has said in this CD-ROM what one should do in the safety field. [[The speaker keeps a CD-ROM up to date]] This is an interesting product, but safety does not exist in it. Nevertheless, it is precisely this federal government, it is these two Federal Ministers, who mutually accuse themselves of having done nothing. It is true that, after disasters, the Federal Government and the individual members of the Federal Government only exchange over the media, getting there. Remember Lassing! It was true that in the case of Lassing, including in the form of a resolution tabled by the government groups, one said: There must be consequences of the mining accident in Lassing. A large motion for a resolution has been tabled, and it has been approved. But to this day, the Federal Minister has not handed over to the National Council the report, which mentions the concrete measures that can be taken and which can be taken in the future. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: What does it do if, on the occasion of media-active disasters, infernos in tunnels before the cameras, one makes announcements, but then leaves the work to be done and does not end what has been started? Again, ladies and gentlemen: I find it embarrassing that on the one hand there is a focus here on saying: We must do something because of this specific occasion, but completely forget that 1,000 people per year are killed on Austria's roads. Every seven hours and 54 minutes is a death victim on Austria's streets to complain about! However, this has not led the Federal Government to focus, for example, on rehabilitating the accident centres in Austria. All this is missing. In this case, too, you, Minister of State, Mr. One and Mr. Farnleitner, are responsible, because these are things in your responsibilities, and they are also in the responsibility of the countries. And if all of you are so concerned about this, I hope that by adopting the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Barmüller and Mr Peter here and today we may be able to initiate an Austrian-wide systematic rehabilitation of accident spots. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That, ladies and gentlemen, would be something that has already been achieved in discussions in the Subcommittee on Transport Safety, consensus, but it has never been decided in this House. It would be a good opportunity today. Mr Kukacka! I would also like to say one thing: You said at the beginning of your speech that prior to the completion of the investigations it would be missing to assign responsibility. – If you are serious about this, I do not understand why you point out that Mr. Federal Minister was one or representative of his department, who was the traffic light regulation that was first outside the tunnel – on 12 February. On 1 October 1998, the tunnel was renovated; there was the traffic light outside – including the involvement of the Ministry of Transport into the tunnel. ==References== October there was a new negotiation with the result: Putting the traffic lights into the tunnel, stopping in the tunnel itself. Mr Kukacka rightly pointed out that it was the seat of the Federal Minister, One who was involved in these negotiations. But he has kept silent that it was the Salzburg state government that intervened that the traffic lights were laid in the tunnel from the outside. Mr Kukacka, if, in the face of an accident, you make such a transport safety policy that you say to the coalition partner: There you have not perceived your responsibility!, but not even come at your own door, then you are not credible in these questions, no more than you have ever been to this House at the 0.5-promille rule. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say one more thing: On Friday evening before the accident – on Saturday in the morning the accident happened – a two-thread tunnel has been blocked in Switzerland because it does not comply with the security measures in the fire. However, it is clear that two tubes are not always sufficient for safety. That is why what the Federal Government decided yesterday is very pleasant, but not targeting. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would ask the President whether I still have the opportunity to read a motion for a resolution on this subject in the light of Mr Kukacka's statement.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3827	I would ask that the next speaker or speaker of the Liberal Forum do so. The motion for a resolution you have tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Do I still have the opportunity to conclude?]] – A brief conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3854	The final point is that we in this House should finally find an objective discussion of these problems. Today, with the approval of the liberal applications, the beginning would have to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3881	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e3902	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since Saturday there has been a horrendous balance of up to now nine or even twelve dead. Accident in the Tauerntunnel, exceptional state medial and political, special meeting. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, there are on average three road deaths in Austria, and 365 times a year! This is the normal state, and this normal state is accepted socially, is politically accepted and is also accepted medially. This is for me the discrepancy that must lead to a general debate on transport policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Mag. Barmüller.]] I do not want to talk here and today about civil protection, civil protection, nuclear threats. I have something else far more important today, that is, what there is daily blood customs on the Austrian roads. These three traffic deaths daily are simply too many, and that's also your fault – your debt here and your debt here! [[the speaker referred to the government parties]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The accident in the Tauerntunnel – as terrible as it is; I underline that: so terrible it is – is unfortunately only the tip of the iceberg. And we have heard today, Mr Kukacka – he is not here at the moment – I am right to say: On average, tunnels are not as dangerous as some other pieces of road. According to the Transport Safety Board, the accident rate is only 0.8 percent. 16 dead have occurred in tunnel accidents. On the street it's more, Mr Kukacka put it out. And Mr Parnigoni, too, has rightly said that human failure is often to blame. In the Tauerntunnel it was human failure plus technical plus administrative! I would like to put on the lever: both in the human as well as in the administrative and, of course, in the technical sector. 20 minutes of waiting, no congestion, it was worth it to you that there are almost more than nine dead to this day. 20 minutes save time! This is also the social value, which is behind the daily three road fatalities, the motto: Be quick! Speed! Hurry up! There were four meetings in the Subcommittee on Transport Safety. A little talk has been made about speed controls, but for four hours there has been talk about drug policy and drug control, and no minute, no second, no syllables about dangerous goods, the difficulty of their transport, the dangers on the road and the traffic insecurity generated by road transport and the transport of dangerous goods. This was not discussed with any syllables, and no second was discussed in the committee here in Parliament. You didn't take road safety seriously. The balance sheet is annual, the balance sheet is weekly, the balance sheet is daily, and the horror balance is called Tauerntunnel. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to speak briefly on the subject. Fortunately, in the Tauerntunnel in 1995, 1996 and 1997 we have not had to complain of a single road fatality, with a total of 5.5 million cars and trucks passing this tunnel every year. This is in itself a quality of safety. Why was the balance so positive? – You know, if you're afraid you're going to a tunnel under these conditions, you're mostly careful. But there are truck drivers who are overloaded, who are overtired, who should have been running for a long time and who then do not keep the speed limit or the distance and do not consider any safety moments. And that was more or less the cause of the accident in the Tauerntunnel – in addition to the technical conditions and in addition to the administrative failure. Tunnel per se is and remains a safety risk, although comparatively less happens. Tunnel tubes are per se and, as a result of the system, also risk factors. It does not help to give in to the illusion of a second tunnel tube. The journey south through tunnels is and remains dangerous. There is no point in lying in the bag with second tubes, escape routes, exhaust air systems and other technical equipment, there remains a risk factor. The second tunnel tube is not a panacea, it even has a placebo effect. I can make it clear to you on an objective level. There are eleven tunnels in Austria that are over five kilometers long, and none of these tunnels has a second tube. These long tunnels are expensive, and because they're expensive, they're not safe. The more uncertain they are, the longer they are, and the longer they are, the more uncertain they are. Security is expensive! But so much wasn't worth it to date, and apparently now you're trying to recapture it, but I'm telling you, even two tunnel tubes won't be safe in the end. There is a second factual reality in Austria. There is only one two-tube tunnel in Austria, which is 4.3 kilometres long. It is the longest that is equipped to match your safety categories. There are 25 tunnels that are over two kilometers long. If you break all these 25 tunnels with a length of over two kilometers now on the two-tube safety system you want, you have to drive 97 kilometers of tunnel construction and say and write over 50 billion schilling on the table. I don't know where you want to take the money from, I don't know where you want to take it from, in view of the discussion on the funding that is now going towards road pricing, which has been in place for years and is not going well now, because there are resistances: Resistance from the economy, partly legitimate, if one only restricts this to the trucks, and resistance also from various national governments who are not quite happy with the placement of the toll stations. We would have a very different method of bringing the cost-truth into road transport, keyword: road performance-dependent mileage. Back to the Tauerntunnel accident. This accident was, I'm sorry, predictable. More and more goods, more and more dangerous goods are transported by truck. While more controls are being carried out, the number of infringements is also increasing. In 1997, there were more than 4,000 controls with more than 5,000 infringements. In 1998 there were over 6 000 controls, but the number of infringements increased to over 9 000. The accident was also predictable because in March the accident happened in the Montblanc tunnel. France has responded, Austria has not responded. The 100 meter safety distance, as applicable to trucks in France, does not apply in Austria. You have also failed in this regard, and above all you have failed to do so. The accident was also predictable for another reason. The construction site was criticised, it was rightly criticized by the ARBÖ and the ÖAMTC. You knew something was going to happen there! In principle, the construction site has been in place since October. It was only a matter of time until, due to human failure, additional moment of danger arose and unfortunately, disaster occurred. We of the Greens have repeatedly shown dangers, we have warned again and again and again and again: Relocation of freight to rail. We have called for more control and bans, we have also called for accompanying vehicles and fixed test sites. You have rejected these fixed test points here in Vienna. The Tyrolean state government, the Tyrolean Landtag, has decided unanimously. This has been rejected! That is why we make the following request, so that you have the opportunity to make up for this: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want here and now and now security measures immediately – and not monster boom billions only tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4064	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser is sufficiently signed and is under negotiation. The Federal Minister has spoken. I would also ask him to observe the 10 minutes of debate. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4088	Mr President. High house! Estimated colleagues on the government bank! First of all, I would like to point out that the likelihood of accidents on a free land road is three times as high as the risk of accidents in a tunnel. Secondly, in a tunnel with or without counter-traffic traffic, the accident frequency with counter-traffic traffic is again a third higher. And I believe that it is necessary for millions of drivers who use the roads in Austria not to look at the schilling, but to minimize any risk, even if it is only in the percentage of the accident frequency, as far as possible. That's prescribing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This does not mean that every tunnel must now suddenly be two-threaded, because it must be clear that the tunnel is always a safety step towards the free land road, so bitter that sounds. It is true, however, that we have to check seriously on all the motorway tunnels that we have taken over with a tube – and that is what we are doing – where we should go two-way. Can I give you examples? – Since I took over this post, I have said: After the expected loads, Amberg, Plabusch and Semmering tunnels have to be two-tubed and will be built as well. We hit the Herzogberg tunnel two-threaded. We only have the Pyrn Tunnel, I like to admit that because we have the problem that the West spange in Wels still hangs in the country of Upper Austria – I hope that it will soon flee – and there is also the Kirchdorf Engstelle. But it is clear that if we fully drive this inner Austrian but also tourist main roadway, the question of Gleinalm-Lainberg will be raised just as it stands with other tunnels. – That on the question of one- and two-sidedness. However, I would also like to say the following because I have been mentioned: I told you from the first day I was in office, where we need two pipes, I'm going to sit down. I did this in the country of Salzburg in 1996, and you can read it: It brought me all around withdrawal claims. I can recall that the then national spokespersons of both countries, Carinthias like Salzburg, politicians who do not belong to my party – I am as polite as possible – have clearly said: Why don't you take a break with this idea? That is why today we are saying: It is sad that... [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – Please: It was grass, fast, Thaller, if you want to hear it, all of them at talks with me... – honourable Member, I know that you were against it and said this clearly! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He was responsible for hunting, the Thaler! That's incredible! Leave the polemics!]] Agreed? [[Abg. Scheibner: That's incredible!]] I'm holding on to it, too, so... [[Abg. Scheibner: Leave this polemic!]] – You asked me, and I said that I also had the right to withdraw from my own party colleagues. That's not so new. Therefore, once again: It is now our task to convert those tunnel landscapes, which are far safer than open roads, in terms of their load. I can tell you an amusing detail as seriously as this is: My predecessors in the Ministry of Economic Affairs were allowed to issue the Katschberg Tunnel, for the second tube, only up to the Salzburg border, because at the time everything in Salzburg was against at least a race regulation for the Katschberg. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Not everything! I was for that!]] That is why we now have the problem of having to ask ourselves, if we want to do this project at Katschberg as quickly as we do at Tauern: Do we now need our own environmental compatibility procedure for the second tube? How do we keep it with race regulations? - That's just on the verge. Secondly, It has been called upon several times here to use Commissions that have consequences. – After the Montblanc accident in the ASFINAG, I established a working group that fully evaluates all the tunnels under us until the summer. Then there will be a report. We're largely finished. This shows – I can repeat it; By the way, Felbertauern is not part of the area which is under discussion here – that the Austrian tunnels are well equipped in the European comparison. We have heard from many experts after the accident in the Tauerntunnel that it was amazing that at temperatures from 1,200 to 1 300 degrees the ventilation continued to function without complaint and also the disposal water supply continued to work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'm saying something because this topic is coming up again and again: According to an opinion, a sprinkler plant was expressly abandoned, because this would result in a concentration of the explosion risk in such hazard situations via the petrol-air mixture. And I must say that it has been in the Tauerntunnel in recent months – alone in this tunnel! – an exercise of the volunteer fire brigades with the local experts took place almost monthly. This has proved to be the case in a serious case, only it has been said over and over again: Once a vehicle is involved with dangerous goods, that's all theory. – And that was this unlikely case that just happened. [[Abg. Scheibner: We demand security measures for the transport of dangerous goods!]] I'll tell you what was trained there. You can expect us to present the report here after this evaluation has been completed. It won't take long, because we've already brought him far. The fact is that even in the discussion of longitudinal and transverse ventilation there is an international dispute among the relevant experts that the short tunnels need up to 500 m of longitudinal ventilation and the longer tunnels need transverse ventilation. That has shown itself in this case, and that is a valuable experience. Let me mention a few details: We have now been able to make sure through the §-4a Regulation – the declaration of the economic necessity – that these two projects, Katschberg and Tauern, can be started. A second point: It is clear that the many wishes that are now available can only be fulfilled if we take the appropriate precautions on a budgetary basis. The road pricing for trucks will come. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said here: Transport costs in this area have fallen by about 30 percent over the last two years! It is not supposed to be done here as if we wanted to bring about the non-more transport capability in Austria via road pricing! But in one point I repeat, we agree: We do it in the same way and with the same system as Germany, because it makes no sense to have different systems at such a long separated limit. We will submit proposals to this Council and then to the new European Parliament to be elected so that we in Europe can have the right to use automatic systems in road pricing. If this were possible, you could first make the system more straightforward, second, would have less expenditure and third, for the planned 2 s per km, could actually achieve a much higher yield. I therefore ask all those who speak in Europe – and we do, of course – to allow such a fundamental transformation of the systems. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me say one more thing: I was deeply impressed when I was on site and in the first conversation a worker at the construction site – this repair was worked around the clock before this accident happened – said: What is affecting me, Mr Minister, is that almost all the "large" went into this construction site, which was "outsourced" at 30 km/h, at 70 km/h. Something had to happen! – I said: You haven't made a cry, but it would have been necessary, because I don't see it from my table, nor does the colleague of one, nor anyone here. The point is that we also need a real debate on transport discipline in certain areas. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: More Gendarmerie!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A general discussion we want, but it refuses the Lord's climate! That's the problem!]] Daily reports of sleepy drivers, heavy-duty vehicles, non-compliance with safety distances increase. I believe that the current public debate, as I say to the media, must not only be a discussion of a second tube, of bans on the transport of dangerous goods and the like, but also a discussion of the fact that the car is a dangerous instrument and it must be taken care of if one is on the road with such tonnages, with such goods, with such urgency! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me conclude by saying: Years ago, responsibility for the elimination of the most frequent accident spots was transferred to countries in this House. I ask you to be allowed to say this. I am constantly being interpleted if this legal situation is not changed. It is the responsibility of the countries themselves to set priorities and to ensure that their most vulnerable bodies are re-established. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Not everyone! The ASFINAG is also responsible!]] I'll say that again. That is why, Mr Barmüller, I am really the wrong address in this case. I like to pass on every intervention to myself, but I no longer have this competence. Finally, I would like to assure you that the fire in the Tauerntunnel – as much as the situation is human to regret – was also an incredible test of a technical system. This also shows us the limits of where one can step in. I'd like to point out one more thing. I was really glad that the recovery, as originally reported, did not result in accidents. I would also like to express my compliment to the fire brigades in there: You were there in 13 minutes! It has proved very well that members of the voluntary fire brigades are employees of the ÖSAG and therefore know the local sites very well. I believe that the use that has been shown to us there is proof of how well decentralized civil protection can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4264	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4285	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to express the following very clearly and clearly: The respect of the Liberal Group applies to all those who are in the auxiliary service, both in the flood disaster in Vorarlberg and in the avalanche disasters in Galtür and in the road disasters not only at the Tauerntunnel, but throughout the year, 365 days a year, are ready to use and have proved their power and performance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our respect applies to the volunteer fire brigades, the relief services, the Red Cross, the Workers' Samariter League and those who are still active in this field, including the helicopter pilots, the driver organizations and the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, who have saved thousands of people in all these years and who have given a better picture on the spot than the Federal Government, whose members are behind me at the government's bank, and who today tries to re-establish their failures in the coordination work – because it is about the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – and to operate beauty dyery. [[Re-enlightenment of the liberties]] Federal Minister Farnleitner! From the very beginning, we liberals were ready to have a fair discussion here and today, to have a comprehensive discussion and to analyse the problem of lack of control here together. – Mr Parnigoni and the representatives of the Austrian People’s Party have, however, taken a different style. If that's what it's supposed to be, it's supposed to be! We liberals were interested in a fair discussion, but if it is meant differently, ladies and gentlemen, then it can be the same. Political little money from the victims has only beaten the Chancellor and the head of state of Tyrol, and the pictures that shimmered across the screens have also been commented on in Europe as well. [[Complaints with the liberals]] If you saw yesterday in German television stations the reports about Mr. Federal Chancellor about his flight to the place of unhappiness, if you heard the evil comment in the German media – the Chancellor has informed us that he is not responsible for anything, and has gone away again – and if you have seen the pictures on it, then you will understand that I am not surprised that the Federal Chancellor is not sitting on the government bank today, but rather in Cologne. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He may be able to switch the media in the same form as in Austria for his work. God Be Thank you, Mr President, we are not ready to go that far in Europe. Unfortunately, it must be assumed to the Austrian media that they provide a government report rather than actual local reporting. You can also see this if you take a look at the Sunday discussion: There is indeed the suffering of those people who were afraid of their missing relatives, who unfortunately were found dead in the tunnel today, who used the suffering of the people who were trembling to give the impression that everything was optimal, everything went well, and the number of victims "reclaved" down. – If we had done so, I would have liked to hear the comments! So I can only return the accusation of the political small money strike to Mr Parnigoni and the former Council of State of Upper Austria and current transport spokespersons of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the events would be enough to finally break the head of certain things in the Federal Government. And, Mr Parnigoni, Minister of State and Secretary of State, one should also say: Part of the demands we raise here are also the demands of the Austrian national conference. The Heads of State or Government have obviously already failed, namely that it is not possible to deal with federalism in all things in Austria, but that meaningful cooperation with the Federal Government is also a very suitable instrument for dealing with disasters across the borders of the country. That you are not responsible for anything that could go wrong by the Federal Government, but are responsible for everything that goes well – according to the motto: "The jubilation reports make the government, and what goes wrong lies in the responsibility of the federal states and in the responsibility of the corresponding drivers!" – ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, so cheap, unfortunately, will not be able to do so! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to make two requests from the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. Firstly, a motion for a resolution by Mr Firlinger, Mr Mag. Chief and colleagues on raising safety in the tunnel. The proposal as such is so long and extensive that I ask you, Mr President, to have it distributed. I shall only outline the motion for a resolution in its main points. The motion for a resolution sets out the demand for a routine check of the tollers at the toll points, for automatic scales, for sample-type technical checks to a greater extent, for vehicle video surveillance systems, which, in the case of tunnel entry and exits, do not only control them in the appropriate form, but also determine who went in and out, the demand for reintroduction of routine controls, the adjustment of competence in civil protection facilities, the creation of safety cells as escape rooms in tunnels and the creation of parallel tunnels, the evaluation of the existing single tunnels and a meaningful two-way tunnel system and extension system in Austria, as well as the call for the co-financing of Austrian transit routes also by the European Union. As far as the Austrian Federal Railways are concerned, the transport of dangerous goods is addressed specifically. It is also called upon to finally implement an improvement in the vehicle material and, in the case of long railway tunnels, only to provide dangerous goods wagons with appropriate emergency brakes. Ladies and gentlemen! The second request deals with the demands of the Federal State of Carinthia and the Federal State of Salzburg for appropriate support for the affected population, for the economy and for the commuters. It is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you to finally join the two motions for resolutions in the interests of the south of Austria and in the interests of coordinating the disasters in Austria and also to ensure that the volunteers who are on the ground around the clock, 365 days a year, are successful.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4426	That motion for a resolution, the head of the honourable Member, is the first one in his fundamental motion for a resolution. Firlinger has sketched, is very extensive, is duplicated, distributed in written form and is under negotiation. This motion for a resolution has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4504	The second motion for a resolution - the one which Mr President-in-Office has read - was also tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and is also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4528	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since this tragic accident has happened in my constituency, you will allow me to make a few comments, but also, but some of them in this regard. It is basically wrong to say that the disaster plans would have been inadequate. It is basically wrong to claim that crisis management would have been inadequate. Because the fact is that the mission has gone over the stage exemplaryly: Over 400 men and more than 60 vehicles have done excellent work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That doesn't dispute anyone!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also wrong if it is claimed that most of the Austrian tunnels would be in bad condition. Discussions of the past and statements of experts confirm exactly the opposite. But I would also like to make a few observations about the second tunnel tube. Since 1988, plans have been under way. And one thing is fact, ladies and gentlemen: Since 1988, liberal councils in Salzburg have been pursuing a course that is no longer comprehensible. The fact is that today it is accused by the liberals of building this second tube as quickly as possible, but in the past they have strongly opposed it! The fact is that a letter was also sent to Karl-Heinz Grasser from the 12th century. On 1 August 1997, he informed the Minister for Transport that measures which could lead to an increase in the traffic burden on the sections mentioned above should be strictly rejected from his point of view, in particular the extension of the Tauern motorway. – As far as the Free Councillor Grasser, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: What do SPÖ Councils in Salzburg say about this?]] The fact is that in the past two political parties have taken clear positions, namely the ÖVP, which categorically rejected the construction of a second tunnel tube, and the socio-democratic state government members who were always for the construction of the second tunnel tube. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your colleague Hofmann says that the state government was against it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The only question is whether we are building another tunnel tube, whether it is at this point the motorway or at another one, actually solving all the problems. I am convinced that the infrastructure is flawed, and if we succeed in reducing risks by improving infrastructure, then it is good. But there is an absolute weakness in traffic, ladies and gentlemen, and this weakness is probably human beings, otherwise it cannot be explained why traffic participants so often display misbehaviors. I experienced this early this morning when I drove to Salzburg. Six road tunnels – one tube and two tubes – I had to happen, and when I look at the speed at which I was driven where I was overtaken, I think that this density of reporting in this context should have actually led to a rethinking, to more reason among the road users. Unfortunately, that was not the case. It will continue to be contrary to the provisions of the Road Traffic Regulations! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I think I have to mention a very important point here. It would be very welcome, as I said earlier, if the second tunnel tube were to be built, but I think it is at least as necessary to improve the labour regulations for truck drivers, because they are the ones that are absolutely exploited! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, it is essential to put much more money into transport education in order to improve in this way too. Finally, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution – Mr President, I will just highlight a few essential points and ask you to include it in the negotiations: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, I would ask you to agree to this motion for a resolution and, on the other hand, that we meet the demands made: Improve the situation for truck drivers and more money for road safety to support people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4626	This comprehensive motion for a resolution, on which Mr Schwemlein referred in his basic remarks, is also distributed in written form and is then discussed and voted. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4672	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. It is proposed a speech time of 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4694	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Human failure is never ruled out, so disasters can happen again and again. But this disaster would certainly not have been so bad if the traffic had already been stopped in front of the tunnel and not only in the tunnel through the traffic lights. In order to reduce waiting times, however, the Ministry of Transport has ordered the traffic lights to move to the construction site in the tunnel. The fire in the Tauerntunnel, which spread early on Saturday to the deadly Inferno, was obviously underestimated. Between the flickering of the flames after an accident and the life-threatening explosions, about 20 minutes passed. This is reflected in the recent investigation of the disaster. At this time, it would have been possible to reach the 700-metre tunnel end. However, the road users tried to clear the fire themselves, which failed, and the subsequent explosion resulted in this dramatic situation. In general, the rescue teams were praised to save the forces who, using their lives, tried to save what was still to be saved. I remember this accident happened just before 5 a.m., and in this early morning the forces were on site within 13 minutes. And it is an ordinary route from both Flachau and St. Michael to the tunnel portal. These forces deserve our thanks because without their commitment, the number of victims would have been much higher! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] But our compassion must also apply to the victims. On the occasion of this urgent request by the Liberal Party, I must remind you that before the 1990 National Council elections there was a massive citizens' initiative in the region – both in the Ennstal and Lungau – and all the political parties back then more or less back from the citizens' initiatives... [[Abg. Scheibner: The SPÖ, too, isn't it?]] Also the FPÖ! [[Abg. Scheibner: SPÖ!]] I had a discussion in Lungau with the former FPÖ member of the FFÖ – at that time he was still a member of the FPÖ! – who decided against the construction of the second tunnel tube at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Now you know why he's no longer with us!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The main argument at the time was that well-developed roads attract traffic. The fact is, however, that despite this needle tube traffic has increased by 10 to 15 percent in recent years. We counted 4 million vehicles on the Tauern motorway, at the toll station in St. Michael in 1992; in 1996 it was already 5 million vehicles, in 1998 it was already 5.6 million vehicles. For this reason, Mr. Federal Minister One, I must make the observation in your letter of 20. April 1999 – that was only six weeks ago – that growth would be only two to three percent per year and that according to the Transport Safety Board, the accident rate in two-speed tunnels was almost the same as on four-speed motorways. It is therefore not acceptable, it is further stated in this letter, that the two single-tube skeletal tunnels of the Tauern motorway are extremely dangerous sections. And it goes on to say: The master plan therefore does not provide for the construction of the second tubes for the Tauern- and the Katschberg tunnel. . I can only say that I am very glad that the Council of Ministers yesterday made a different decision. Now on the attacks by Mr Barmüller against Mr Landeshuptmann Dr. Schausberger. – When it was planned to build the second tunnel tube at the beginning of the 1990s, it was not Schausberger, but Haslauer, who, as it were, accepted the population will of this region. But I must say that, years ago, Schausberger began to raise the demand for the second tunnel to be expanded, but, in order for the people to accept it, it was linked to appropriate noise protection measures. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We have this demand to make representatives of the people as a whole, and I must also reject the accusations made by the honourable Member, Mr President, that Weingartner has failed in the face of the disaster of Galtür. I must say that the head of state is responsible for coordination. And Haider was on Saturday on the southern portal of the Tauerntunnel in some way wrong in the square. It has been described as if it were already in Carinthia, but there is still the whole Lungau in between. Carinthia only starts on the southern portal of the Katschberg Tunnel and not on the southern portal of the Tauerntunnel. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I must make a request. There will be a disaster situation during the summer in the elusive routes, such as on the Felbertauern Straße, on the Ennstal Bundesstraße, but also on the Tauern motorway, where the entire traffic will have to be guided by Badgastein. There is a need for action in this matter! There have already been congestion situations on all these routes during the season and especially on the weekend. If the Tauern motorway now fails and two million vehicles have to be relocated to other roads in the summer season, then action must be taken urgently so that the population living in this region does not suffocate completely in traffic!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4774	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4795	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I know, Mr Schwarzenberger: Attack is the best defense! I say only one thing with regret: that it was the Salzburger Landesregierung, which has closed down for many decades, until the term of office of the head of state Katschthaler, the construction of the second tube of the Tauerntunnel. I can't see why you're moving Mr. Freshenschlager through Parliament now, as it were, but perhaps nothing else has come to your mind. That we have spoken here in the House about human distress in the face of the victims of disaster was right, and I agree with that! However, I would also like to mention the economic impact that Schwarzenberger has just mentioned. This disaster has an impact on those people who live in the Lungau and live in Carinthia – the East Tyrols will catch it a little less because they are easily accessible via the Puster Valley and the Brenner motorway – but above all, as said, on the people in the Lungau. Since 1971, the Lungau population has experienced an economic upturn that it would never have experienced without Tauern motorway. People have found new jobs, have established new tourist establishments and had success with them, in a two-saison tourism: both in winter and in summer. These plants are cut off from the traffic today, because the alternatives there are to reach the Lungau are now only the Radstadt Tauern Pass, where we know the situation, the Archduke-Johann-Straße over the Sölkpass, where it is much worse, and a little further away the Pölstal over the Tribute Tauern Pass. No one can imagine the traffic we expect there in the summer – the traffic that would otherwise have flown over the Tauern motorway, with a density of up to 30 000 cars per day! – can only be grasped by the capacity of these elliptical routes. It's very similar in Carinthia. Tourism in Carinthia is highly summer-oriented, and it has seen painful declines in recent years. It's about the economics! Minister for Economic Affairs! Without a doubt, Carinthia will feel this limitation of its accessibility. Carinthia has three means: This is the route over Böckstein – the Bundesbahn tells us that more than two to three trains in the hour could not take it – that is the route across the Großglockner – if there are 3,000 cars a day, then the Großglockner Hochalpenstraße is more than full – and this is perhaps the road over the Felber Tauern, which is already heavily loaded in the summer months. That is, Mr Federal Minister, that we not only have a traffic chaos – which we expect in the summer – but also have to discuss strong and painful economic losses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] – I am going to comment later on this request. Federal Minister! They set up the "Tourism" section. I think that this can now be their first test, in the area where it is intended to be used, as you think, in the field of coordination and assistance in solving problems of the kind mentioned. I call you three demands from the tourism industry, and I ask you to examine them. I do not wish to put them in the form of a request, because I believe that we can discuss them in this form too. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He won't be finished!]] The first claim: Repair of the broken tunnel. You can repair it in two ways: You can repair it as we all Austrians... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Now be quiet, Haigermoser! You always talk in between, and no man knows why! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We have two ways to repair this tunnel: First, we have the possibility of a normal federal construction site that you know and I know, and second, we have the opportunity to try to restore this tunnel in a three-layer operation really as soon as possible. Second claim: I believe that we should try to establish an information system at the E 52 from Munich, an information system that is about radio stations. There's already that in America. I'm sure you know that, too. The drivers on the road know that if they hear, for example, Channel 52 or 67 or any band, they get ongoing information about the possibilities they have, which elusive routes they can usefully use. Third claim: I believe that we should start an action – and that is, as I mean, a promotion action – with which we free those guests who spend their vacation in Lungau or in Carinthia from the payment of the toll fee. I think there should be a pool in which, on the one hand, the companies and on the other, the federal government should make a certain contribution as a useful support. The request of the liberals, the power. The main reading is aimed in this direction. I will not agree, however, because the points one, two and three of the motion for a resolution do not consider that the wording is inconceivable. Federal Minister! Something must always happen in Austria so that something happens – that is the sadness in this country! There must always be an accident at first, so that we can sit down and tell ourselves when we will be preparing the high-level road network. I do not agree: after 50 years of prosperity in this Republic, we do not have the financial means to establish a high-level road network that we have not yet completed after 50 years of prosperity in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. That is the real scandal in this matter! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Scheibner.]] The disaster, which unfortunately happened, does not change in the end. Financial resources are available if they are used properly. As an example, I mention only the disaster fund. The disaster fund has only been cleared in recent years. I know that these expenditures would not be covered in the current legal wording, but this federal government has already changed more legal formulations in order to get money. From 1993 to 1997 they removed from this total 12 billion schilling by reducing the commitment to the disaster fund and the removal of the disaster fund on the occasion of the savings package. I repeat: 12 billion schilling! This would have allowed you to build a lot of second tunnel tubes – apart from what we did not do to avalanches, which resulted in a disaster winter in 1999. It is a difference – as Ischgl explains – whether, as it was 20 years ago, you have a tourist resort that has 100 000 nights in winter, or whether, after 20 years, you have a very successful tourist resort that has a million nights in winter. Of course, the demands on the public hand will be different. But you didn't make these investments. On the contrary: They, red and black in common, have eliminated the disaster fund, which was well-informed from corporate tax and income tax – this was a commitment of 2.29 percent – up to 1.428 percent. But you can't even take advantage of the funds available in the disaster fund every year – because the planning is too slow. I know that this is partly due to the Minister of Agriculture, partly also to the Minister of Finance, who then shifts it to the Minister of Economic Affairs. – I don’t want to be pushed around, gentlemen on the government bank! It is clear that you had the financial resources but did not use them. So if you are in favour of 50 years of economic development in the Second Republic still not having a high-level road network that meets the requirements of the next decade, I think you will have to go the way of the exchange of assets and do what industrial associations and the liberals always propose: Distinguish You are from non-commercial state property in the privatisation field! The Republic of Austria owns 12 percent of the land area of this country. Over 10,000 square kilometres of this country belong to the Republic of Austria. Don't tell me now that this is loud forest and railway tracks! You know very well that this is not the case. There is a great potential for privatization, which the Minister of Finance has already addressed in part, but still not enough, but whose proceeds he always leads to the budget. In 1998, two billion Schillings made up the proceeds from basic sales, and 3 billion Schilling plans to succeed the Minister of Finance for 1999. In the sense of an asset exchange, you need to devote these funds to the construction of the infrastructure in Austria, which unfortunately you have failed to create in the last decades when you are in the government. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, let me read Mr Barmüller's motion for a resolution to which he himself has not come. It concerns information on the prevention of accidents and behaviour in dangerous situations and states: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4886	The motion for a resolution just read is sufficiently supported and has been submitted in accordance with business rules. It is included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e4910	Mr President. Estimated members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! 50 years of prosperity – my previous speaker mentioned it – and I am surprised that one has systematically thinned a once much closer rail network, that one has not increased the attractiveness of the operation in many areas, but has reduced it, and that therefore many dangerous transports are on the road. I am also surprised that, despite all the efforts made between elections, genuine measures would help to reduce this burden on the roads and thus avoid an increase in the risk. Where is the eco-tax, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Mr Transport, which could contribute to the fact that the transport of goods from daily needs does not take place to the extent that is currently the case on the road? The safety must be influenced and improved at most by new constructions. And you should also be so honest as to say that the decision now taken within the Council of Ministers will be taken at the earliest in several years. What to do You'll be there until then? My colleague Gabriela Moser presented it to you: Of the 25 tunnel lines, which are over two kilometers long, only seven are extended. What about the remaining 18 tunnels? How do you know where the next accident will take place and where to grow with priority? – This is a safety placebo! Mr Posch! Is there something you might think of in the meantime? I think that there must be measures for increased road safety, for example in the form of speed limits or accompanying measures for the transport of dangerous goods, particularly on tunnels, in the area of possible blockage. If a dangerous transport takes place on the road – I have my doubts as to whether this should be the case at all – then in special exceptional cases, when it comes to very dangerous transports, it should be the lower evil, if necessary, to send a transport once alone through a tunnel instead of putting people in danger. I know that these measures are unpopular, so you have trusted that nothing will happen already. And now, by this decision of the Council of Ministers, you are giving the population a pure safety placebo. Ladies and gentlemen! I was always of the opinion that decisions are taken unanimously in the Council of Ministers. I therefore do not know what it should be if you play the ball of responsibility to each other. Obviously, you have been involved in all the measures that have been taken, both in different functions. The Federal Chancellor has also contributed to this, and all the members of the Federal Government have contributed. It has really been reduced in the field of safety in recent years, and I ask you the question: Why did you do that? – By 1998 the Federal Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods on the Road, which provided, inter alia, for the following measures: Accompanying vehicles, minimum distances, reports to the tunnel guard and so on. This has been abolished in this form. ==References== There are new legal bases for this in September 1998, namely the Dangerous Goods Promotion Act. This has changed a lot. What you, Mr Verkehrsminister, have described as an advantage to us in a reply to a question I would like to point out to the House here, namely that the minimum penalty rates of 1 000, 5 000 or 10 000 S are laid down for infringements of the rules on the transport of dangerous goods. – To call this a "progress" seems to me to be macaber in view of the consequences of a single accident with dangerous goods. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is really a macabre scheme, because there are 10,000 s not even a drop on the hot stone. I ask you whether the security means by type of the great coalition. Or: It was with the disappearance of the old law that the tunnel regulation, which was valid for all Austrian tunnels, was also removed. There has been no adequate replacement, although that would have been possible. Austria would have been able to enter into force on 31 December before the relevant EU Directive came into force. In December 1996, it was possible to create special rules for safety, in order to shift certain transports from road to rail. – No one in the Federal Government has made himself strong for this. There were several transport ministers at work: in the short term, the German Chancellor climate, then Scholten, now someone who inherited the whole problem. I wonder, Why has one not made use of the possibility of prohibiting certain extremely dangerous transports on the road? - Now it's too late! Now the relevant EU directive applies, the tunnel regulation has now been abolished, and there is no replacement, except for the said really ridiculous criminal provisions. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been actively reduced by the members of the Austrian Federal Government in the area of transport regulations, and I really think this is irresponsible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll get you together. An increase in safety is not possible at all in the short term through new constructions. Whether that makes sense in individual cases should be checked after a priority sequence. However, this cannot conceal the fact that the large-scale answer can only be called: Very dangerous transports have lost nothing on the road, because there will be more and more uncertainty than on the rail! And at last one should confess to really generous and not concentrated on a few tunnels the area of the railway, to really make it a modern transport, which provides a higher level of safety in freight transport in particular. Mr Verkehrsminister! But that also means that there is no way to save there at the expense of safety. But if there are long tunnel lines with mixed traffic in the area of the railways – for example, in the Vienna Forest Tunnel in conjunction with the Lainzer Tunnel – which – at least in the Vienna area – are one-tubed, then I already ask the question: Can this be the right answer after this disaster? On the part of the Greens, there is a hundred percent yes to a determined and much more generous expansion of the railway. However, in this case too, Minister of Transport, a statement of yours is now appropriate, as you think in this area of safety.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5012	I now give the floor to Mr Haigermoser, with a welcome speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5033	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to and must also deal briefly with the role of the responsible Federal Chancellor of Climate Change, who has said around the events concerning the Lassing mine that a new, better coordinated crisis management should be set up in several departments. – End of the quote. That was his own words. But today he shines by absence, ladies and gentlemen. Today, a year later, he would have had the opportunity to present to the public how he kept it with his promise at that time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's why he's not here!]] – But he acted in some way according to the motto: "He climbed his horse and drove away in all directions." Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Cologne is so important and Parliament is not, is not enough. It is noteworthy that at least one of the ministers responsible – the Minister of Economic Affairs – has debated this need. But it would be better for the coalition speakers – I have not to criticise, just to say so – to recognize that mutual casting does not bring about the solution of disputes of competence or problems. They poured themselves out according to the motto: "If you have my climate, I'll be glad!", and that went back and forth. Then one has taken back to fresheners to shake the opposition. But it has not been possible to hear from any government spokesman where the problems can now be solved. No one will go that far and say: "Mr. Federal Minister, you are directly responsible for the death of these people!" - God forbid! But you are responsible for the competence jungle you still have in your government, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kukacka – imaginary, not present! –, don’t take the great auxiliary forces in ÖVP hostage! They didn't deserve this. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] They have indeed not deserved to be protected, in view of these great achievements, that everything was done anyway, which was necessary. The current government climate, of course, has the problem – many problems, but above all this – that Mr. Federal Minister is now doing a good job, according to the motto: "Nothing says on the government bank just don't notice, because in April I sent a letter to the Salzburg state government, in which it said that we don't need this tunnel anyway." – Mr Schwemlein said: Social democracy has always been for this! – Once again, the dual piousness of the socialist government, the climate government, ladies and gentlemen, will be evident! It is embarrassing – I am also referring to your address, Mr. Federal Minister – that you have presented a embarrassing ping-pong game to the public – that is the only one in this Federal Government – in the way: I'm not responsible. The one is for the traffic light, the other for the fire brigade, in case of doubt I am not responsible for anything! – It is a problem of credibility that you have, not so much a problem of will! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would have been necessary for Mr Bundeskanzler's climate to appear, which, although always when the television cameras appear – which has already been addressed today – is moving in the first row, but which, if he should be in front of the curtain, should be in Parliament, disappear behind the curtain as soon as he is drawn up, ladies and gentlemen. This cannot be in the sense of a living parliamentaryism! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is happening to assistance to domestics, including from an economic point of view? – There was great human suffering in Galtür, in Vorarlberg near the injured. What is going on in the area of assistance? Whole works of life have been and will be destroyed. Where, then, is the disaster fund to help small and medium-sized businessmen, their employees, those to whom the house was destroyed, instead of just giving Peanuts? - You just give me alms! That is also a problem of your budget and your policy! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it was necessary for us to hold this general debate with you today – even if climate is refusing to debate! There will be the population on our side, because the lack of protection of the Federal Government in civil and civil protection matters is a fact. You can't discuss that away, even with individual measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The people concerned – not only those affected by the Tauerntunnel accident, but also all the other victims, such as those in Vorarlberg or anywhere else – have a right to the support of the Solidarity community. This means that the state must submit, ladies and gentlemen, next to the donations of the individual population groups. Federal Minister! Last but not least, not to cover my speaking time: You have introduced the vignette with good luck two years ago and said you need this money in addition to the income from the numerous taxes already available in this area to expand the road network. – And now you think nothing but to demand a new tax. But we'll look at you to see if you spend the money where it is necessary, and not get into the taxpayers' bag again and again and refuse with a new tax to be able to countercarry the last one.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5106	It also spoke to Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Einsamt. – Mr Federal Minister, I ask you, as far as possible, to hold to a 10-minute speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5127	Mr President. High house! Mr Haigermoser, I would have shown you that I spoke a long time before you spoke. Now I'm talking. I'm glad to have heard you before. High house! I should now like to comment briefly on some of the questions raised. Mr Scheibner referred to a letter which has been referred back to us now, more precisely to the exchange of letters between the head of state of Salzburg and me. There is no reason at all to deny this letter. The fact is that the experts have come to the judgment – and this is not particularly surprising and is also applied in a similar way abroad – that only on average daily journeys in the order between 20 000 and 25 000 do a four-speed motorway construction or four-speed road construction appear justified. I have told the head of state of Salzburg that there is no justification for extending the second tunnel tube from these points of view. The second point is that I have pointed out, with reference to a study carried out by the Transport Safety Board, that the risk of accidents in one-tube tunnels and in two-thread tunnels is roughly the same, at least does not differ dramatically, and that this per se would not give rise to the construction of a second tube. This is what I have written, and these are judgments that you can certainly stand on. In addition, it is still necessary to make policy. The Minister of Economic Affairs is primarily responsible for the decision which high-level road constructions in the future are desirable and necessary. It is also known to me that the national governments of Carinthia and Salzburg have explained that they want this road. In that respect, I believe that this is a matter which must be taken into account in this debate. It consists of politics. That is why I have been able to agree with Mr Farnleitner's request yesterday without any difficulty. The assessment that I gave the best in my letter to Mr Schausberger is not falsified, it is not revoked, it has been expressed, and I am still standing here today. - Point one. Second point. There have been several speakers – the first, I believe, Mr Scheibner, then it has been Mr Kukacka and also other Members, last Mrs Petrovic, who have pointed out that it has been since the expiry of the original Risk Promotion Act on 1. There are no rules on tunnel safety on September 1998. High house! That's just wrong! There's only been 3 since 3. November 1998 – that is to say, with a certain distance of time, but yet – for each of the high-level tunnels on the motorways, so-called interim regulations, which regulate how dangerous freight transport is to take place there. The fact that a law-free space had been created is wrong. Such a one has not emerged. There are these regulations. However, they are replaced by a regulation which I have adopted today and which will apply to all road tunnels. But to say it again clearly... [[Abg. Scheibner: Why now? Why not one or two months ago?]] Mr Scheibner! I'm surprised that you're just talking about this from the liberals. . Because the main difficulty in adopting this regulation was finally getting comments from the countries. [[Abg. Scheibner: But now it has happened!]] Previously, Mr Parnigoni has already pointed out that the last opinion is actually the one he has quoted, namely that of the country of Carinthia of 20. May this year. I can tell you the number of businesses: It is the number 17E72/41/99 and it bears the signature: "With kind greetings for the head of state: Dipl.-Ing. Wilhelm Fortin." Whoever that is. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was not the first statement!]] The first opinion, Mr Klubobmann, was an opinion on the Interim Regulation, and it was also relatively late. This opinion is the opinion on the Regulation in its opinion. It is by far the last one, and it is the one that also points out that it is not necessary to accompany the transport of dangerous goods from their point of view. – This on the issue of truth on this point. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then quote correctly!]] Yeah, I'd like to read it to you. This is the subject of "Autobahnen in Kärnten", Mr Klubobmann, "Motor transport of dangerous goods in the tunnels, opinion on the draft regulation." It is then a series of figures, and literally the text is just as Mr Parnigoni has read it before. I would also like to make this letter available to you. [[Abg. Scheibner: It has been a question of averting toxic transport on the federal road!]] Mr Scheibner! They have also said that although the European Union is financing Poland and Hungary, with the side-taste: those who need it out there, they do not pay for it with us. – That too is wrong! It is true that, as part of its co-financing from TEN Austria, the European Union has so far paid some 900 million Schilling for the planning effort in the high-level transport network road and rail. The final quota was added to Austria a month ago and amounted to 240 million schilling. I can now come to a second point, which does not seem to me to be quite insignificant. Mr Kukacka and Mr Schwarzenberger have raised the question of responsibility for the type of settlement of the construction site in the tunnel. Both believed that the Ministry of Transport – that is, the Minister of Transport, who bears responsibility for it – would be responsible for this. – Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, you are misinformed! It is true that the Ministry of Transport has adopted a speed limitation in this context, with a regulation of 27. On August 28, 1998, this speed limit was limited exclusively to 30 kilometres in the construction site area. All other things have been decreed by the District Headquarters, in this case Tamsweg, and the surprise is that essentially also in this notice of the District Headquarters Tamsweg of 7th century. It is set – I quote – in October 1998: The single-track traffic control is controlled by the corresponding switching of the traffic light system at the tunnel portals. The duration of the road stop in the corresponding direction will take up to about 20 or 25 minutes per direction. This traffic control is controlled by the central operating guard in the highway championship St. Michael. - Quote. It is this annex to the notice of the District Head of Tamsweg, and this notice was important for the situation. This raises further questions, but these are not questions to the Minister for Transport, I would just like to say to the information. Let me conclude by saying a word on Mrs Petrovic's comments. It meant that the minimum penalties of 1 000 S, 5 000 S and 10 000 S contained in the new scheme were ridiculous. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that it may still be too low a penalty, but it should be noted that, even under the old legal situation, nothing would have changed this accident, which is the cause of the debate today and which has a very tragic dimension. I think we should say that. There is no special point in representing very popular positions here if they have nothing to do with the accident. To conclude, let me inform you as follows: Today, European Commissioner for Transport Neil Kinnock wrote a letter to me, in which he expressed his sympathy for the victims of this horrendous accident, and also confirmed – as did the German President of the Council of Transport Ministers – that the next Council of Transport Ministers on 17 and 18 November. In June, at the request of Austria, the question of tunnel safety will be the agenda of the Transport Council at European level, and I assume that this can also be the starting point for a common European regulation, especially since France is also extremely interested in meeting with the other states, particularly the Alpine states, which in future will provide even better safeguards. I think, unfortunately, that we also have to learn God from disasters. But we also have the opportunity to really do something now, and we are both determined to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5235	Mr Antoni has now come to speak with a four-minute voluntary time limit. [[Abg. Haigermoser: If you don't cheat, they're over right now!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5265	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, I do not agree with your actual correction either, because it is really the case, as the Federal Minister has said, that this letter contains a sentence which makes it clear that the head of state of Carinthia has no interest in an obligation to accompany the transport of dangerous goods. [[Abg. Scheibner: Without other measures! You know exactly that the transport of dangerous goods then goes on the federal roads!]] I find the resolution of the Carinthian Government of Sunday, 29 particularly strange, Mr. Col. May, for in it stands [[Abg. Scheibner: You advocate the transport of dangerous goods through a village!]] The public safety bodies shall be equipped with sufficient personnel and equipment to ensure safe monitoring and control of the transport of dangerous goods at any time of day and night. – This is a dramatic contradiction, which is not so easy to explain. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It's easy to explain!]] [[Abg. May. Main: It is easy to explain, Mr Antoni!]] High house! As a Member of the Carinthian, I should like to say very briefly: Since the existence of the Tauern motorway, i.e. since the existence of the one-tubed tunnels in the course of this Tauern motorway, the second tunnel tube is required by the Carinthian population and by the SPÖ politicians in Carinthia. Unfortunately, in vain! Against arguments, as we have already heard today, are unfortunately on the agenda again and again. Now we have to note, ladies and gentlemen, that the Tauern motorway is already an important European North-South connection. The foreseeable accession of Slovenia to the European Union will give this transport axis an even greater importance. The resolution of the coalition parties, tabled by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Kukacka, is therefore particularly welcomed and supported by the members of the Carinthian SPÖ, since it is now launching the implementation of the second tunnel tube at the Katschberg tunnel and the Tauern Tunnel. It is strange and actually disappointing for us in Carinthia, but also the opinion of the head of state Pröll on this tragic tunnel accident. He abuses this by saying that this is now the final end for the Semmering Base Tunnel. Dear friends from the ÖVP! I think there's a mistake here. For to say, because of this accident, the Semmering base tunnel cannot be built because there are no 100% security guarantees, that is not to accept – at least not by the Carinthian SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5359	Mr Mag. Main has made a statement of actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Antoni said in his statement that the head of state of Carinthia had no interest in accompanying the transport of dangerous goods. I'm actually correcting: In fact, the head of state of Carinthia has every interest in accompanying dangerous goods, but he has no interest in the fact that, due to the failure of the Federal Minister of Transport, the transport of dangerous goods is now going through the towns and that there is an even higher transport potential and risk potential than on the motorways. Finally, Mr Antoni, as always in your statements, I should like to say that as always, your State Councillor Schiller is responsible for the transport of dangerous goods in Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: I want you to correct!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5432	Mrs Gatterer has now come to speak with a desired speaking time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5454	High house! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== On this Saturday early then the nightmare of every driver, an accident in the tunnel, was an exercise measure, last Saturday became sad reality. [[Abg. May. Main: Cite, do not fabricate!]] This terrible accident occurred in the "Nadelöhr Europa". People have lost their lives, people have spent their lives to save human lives. You can't thank them enough, I think. But also countless people in Salzburg and in Carinthia are now affected by this accident and the resulting barrier: the commuters, the economy, students commuting to Salzburg, and it is of course now a very large number of tourists on this route in summer. If Mr Antoni said that the SPÖ had always spoken for the second tunnel tube: I can say that for the Carinthian ÖVP. There have been decisions on the land day, last one unanimous decision on 20 November. Mr Grossmann, former secretary of the SPÖ-Kärnten, against the extension of the second tunnel tube. [[Abg. Swimmlein: But not in Salzburg!]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: Mrs Colleague, think also of the Salzburgers!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But also the book leader was against it!]] There have been decisions in Carinthia over and over again, because we want Carinthia not to be locked off and there is no obstacle on entering Carinthia. However, the second tunnel tube has always been necessary not only for transport policy reasons for Carinthia, but above all for safety reasons and for ventilation reasons. For example, the Carinthian municipality of Rennweg has already conducted the nature conservation negotiations during the construction of the first tunnel tube, for example, has already made a landfill for the excavating of the second tunnel tube, and it has not been possible to build this second tunnel tube. But I have to say, Mr Gaugg, you cannot take responsibility either, because in the 1980s and 1990s you have always – up to a year and a half – put the road builder on the road and shown very little initiative towards a second tunnel tube. [[Abg. Gaugg: Yes, Mrs Colleague, everyone has failed afterwards!]] The Minister explained that the traffic light in question had not been taken from his ministry in the tunnel. I myself am very often driving this route, and I must say that there has been a lack of marking for a car driver on the motorway. There was a construction site in front of the motorway. It was then thought that this construction site was completed, and in the tunnel was the traffic light at once! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is a big problem for many to stay in the tunnel. It is a psychological problem, it is a burden in several ways. One is anxiously aware of the risk of accidents if one has to stand in the tunnel, let alone the carbon monoxide pollution. However, this burden exists not only for the drivers, but also for the workers, of course. In my opinion, that dangerous goods transport was still possible without accompanying protection and accompanying vehicles is something for which you must, in part, take the blame, Mr Verkehrsminister. In general, I think it is necessary to say that there is safety before waiting and that there should be no traffic lights in tunnels. I mean, we should also address the discipline of the drivers here. I mentioned this disaster exercise 15 years ago, which lasted an hour and a half. At that time, she was accompanied for an hour and a half by a team of drivers, because you just didn't want to accept that you have to wait. It is certainly necessary to carry out information in this regard in the driving schools and on the part of the driver clubs. I would now like to come to the Carinthian measures. I believe that, after this disaster, it is urgently necessary to prevent further disasters, especially catastrophic consequences for Carinthia and Salzburg. We urgently need rapid reorganisation, and I therefore thank Minister Farnleitner, who has promised to have day and night renovated so that a solution can be reached as quickly as possible. We need increased advertising in Germany. It must be made clear that both the Lungau and Carinthia can be reached, and it must be said how these areas can be reached. We need discounts on the Felbertauern street and alternative options. We need improved handling and also the possibility of freight transport between Mallnitz and Böckstein. And we also need measures for the economy. I also appeal to my Salzburg colleagues, because it is urgently necessary for the Upper Carinthian economy to be able to drive through the Radstädter Tauern. The detours are simply not acceptable. It is also a sad fact that the lack of expansion of the B 100 now runs all these transports through the narrowest places in towns. We need an agreement with our Salzburg colleagues on this subject. I think it is also urgently necessary that the time and value cards on the other toll lines be recognised. We Carinthia simply need the help of the federal government in this emergency situation, we need to be welcome, we need a corresponding package of measures. Our thoughts are with the victims, our thanks are on the side of the helpers, but the need for action now consists of politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5548	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. – Mr deputies, your club has a speaking time of 7 minutes available in this debate. I'll set up seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5570	Mr President. High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Right at the beginning: Mrs Gatterer, I listened very carefully to you, but I believed that I could not trust my ears when you were asked to have a reduction on the Felbertauernbahn. I agree if it is demanded that, as a result of this accident and as a result of this accident, measures be taken, including advertising measures, which clarify to holiday guests from Germany or other countries that Austria is accessible. Of course! But should we not, on the occasion of this incident, make it equally clear that it is safer – even for the holiday guests – and therefore would be more useful if the holiday guests were to come to Austria by train and rail as possible? The fact that you still want to prove the Felbertauerntunnel with a discount, although you could hear today in the "Morgenjournal" that the Felbertauerntunnel is one of the most uncertain among a selection of European road tunnels, only shows that the safety is obviously traded at the same price as other goods. And that can't be it! That can't be it, Mrs. Gatterer! [[Congratulations on the Greens!]] I am with all those, including the proposals made by the EIA and Mrs Gatterer, who call for consequences to increase safety. But not much has yet come of this. The second tube will not be. If Mr Bundesminister One of the Green Members, in the direction of Mr Petrovic, said it would be no good to represent particularly popular things if they had nothing to do with the accident, and therefore the minimum penalty means, then he would forget that what the Federal Government decided yesterday, namely the second tube, has nothing to do with the accident, because that was an accident. On the occasion of this accident and the special events surrounding this accident, a number of other measures have to be taken, but it is not necessarily the construction of a second tube that could have prevented this accident, because an accident is also possible in a second tube – for example. Of course, it is not generally necessary to say no to a second tube, but other measures are now needed. And if you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, think of each other, you were already in 1996 – as Mr Farnleitner has done – for the second tube, then I say that this has nothing to do with the accident, Mr Farnleitner, because even if you had already begun the construction of the second tube at the time, you could not have prevented the accident. But this gives the impression, Mr Federal Minister, that the accident would have been prevented if these measures had only been taken in good time. Nothing would have been to be prevented! So we should really be concerned, first and foremost, about what the safety is, and only secondly, about what special other consequences still need to be drawn. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Here we are with you, Mr. Federal Minister One – even if he is not here right now –: The rail must be strengthened – now and immediately! But, Minister of State, you have already been guilty of an answer. If the Federal Government already wants to force the second tubes – so much for the colleague Koppler – in the street sector, why not also where the rail is required, where the rail is concerned? Why Not in the Lainzer Range two tubes? Why not? Why just by the street? Mr Federal Minister, you still owe an answer to that. I would, however, like to add one more important point to the safety which, I believe, only Mr Schwemmlein has raised, and that is the safety associated with the driving times of the handlebars. Ladies and gentlemen! We know from all European countries that the trucks are not on the road, as required, for eight or ten hours, but that the average driving times are between 14, 16 and 17 hours, while the handlebars are also on the road with dangerous goods. We know this, and yet despite increasing traffic traffic, the number of controls is also decreasing in Austria. I have made the effort to select the appropriate figures from the field of labour inspection. In 1996, approximately 150,000 working days were tested for truck drivers. In 1997, despite increasing traffic traffic traffic traffic, it was only 132,000 days, and of the concerns in it, almost all refer only to the missing travel book or to shortcomings in the travel book or to the disc for the crossing of the daily driving time, to too short steering breaks and too long service times. Thousands of transgressions a year! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, where are the appropriate measures taken by the Federal Government? These can't mean a restriction on controls as it is reality, but there must be an extension of controls. Where are you with your actions in this area? What have you done in recent years? We already know that it is not easy and requires a considerable effort to work in this area. It is not easy to carry out the checks. But finally, take measures that really lead to more safety not only for the other road users, but also for the main affected, for the truck drivers! That would be a measure that would help us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5669	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger in the course of his speech is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Herzegovina. – You have required a three-minute voluntary speaking time. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by setting the clock this way; the overall speaking time for your club is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5693	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would have liked to have a little more discussion about skills adjustments. This is a very difficult and bulky issue with the ÖVP, with the coalition partner. I am thinking about the state reform. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Deputy Herbs, the same problem is yours!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is a bad example!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say: The responsibility for road and rail transport, in terms of construction and development, should definitely be put together. Not to discuss because, ladies and gentlemen, the second tube to the Plabusch Tunnel in Graz has long been clarified. The plans are complete, the call for tender has been made, the financing is secured. The Minister of Finance also took part on 29 July. We have heard a confession by the Minister of Economic Affairs today, so in fact only the signature of Minister Farnleitner is missing. – Please, Mr Minister, make this little effort, then we can start construction this week in Styria! What Minister Farnleitner said about road pricing for trucks is – with permission! – a funeral of the first class. Are we waiting for EU provisions, ladies and gentlemen? Does this not recall fatally the prevention of animal welfare in Austria by the ÖVP? This method is known. Or the above-mentioned technical simplification. You don't mean these colported science fiction methods, do you, Minister? As all the informers go to and know that this is the safest way of prevention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kiss: Now the back-belts are coming up again! Now the back-belts stand out again!]] In the Coalition Convention, the start of road pricing is already set in 1998. The legal requirements have been created. Only the EIA is against it, ladies and gentlemen, the EIAs in the countries. Although these demand road development and tunnel development, they are opposed to the sensible financing model. The Frächter Lobby – and this is the truth in the end – has once again prevailed here. And this freight lobby is personalised in Mrs. Klasnic in Styria, because you are also more important to the family-owned freighter company than the safety of road users. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, please, Mr Maitz. You are right that you are excited because there is a letter from Mrs Klasnic from today on this subject, and in this there is for road pricing the following: [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] We're not going to take any disadvantages. - Quote. Well, that's really a decoder of the extra class! The company Klasnic has clearly spoken here. [[Abg. Kiss: If an ÖVP minister says something about road pricing, you get a red head!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am for the immediate start of construction at the Plabuschtunnel and against the irrational prevention of the truck crew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5794	Mr Farnleitner has spoken on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5816	Mr President. High house! Maybe I can start with the last speaker. [[Calls and unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Herb's answer always makes it easy for you to answer, because the speech has been in the OTS since 2 p.m. I must nevertheless inform him that I have nothing at all to do with a signature in the ASFINAG about a call for tenders. I can tell you that now, but I would have told you otherwise. Secondly, I said to road pricing that we also have the 1st, in a joint report to the Council of Ministers. In January 2002 it was adopted as the possible date of introduction. We trust that the German Federal Government, which has the same plans, will also be completed at the same time. We would then have the same system between these two countries so closely interwoven at the same time. Therefore: There is no dispute in this respect, but I do not have to sign an award document in the ASFINAG, in order to clarify this clearly again. To the other things I still wanted to hold: Mr Peter, I have still agreed on the spot with the ÖSAG – as was the case with the construction site there: After the necessary cleaning work, repairs are carried out day and night, Sunday and weekday to eliminate this condition as soon as possible. High house! I am very glad to be able to say in this context that we have an excellent information medium with "Austrian advertising" which works immediately. All 24 outposts of the "Austrian Advertising" were immediately instructed to present in the tourist travel advice the transit routes to show the alternative routes via railways. Via Internet link you can find any rail connection, any cheaper connection, any obstacle. I think it is very important that we contact our foreign guests directly. I would also like to make it clear that we are very much concerned that German guests know the detours. I would also like to appeal to the Carinthian tourism industry that in the period up to the peak season we still sit down and consider whether we could get hold of the weekend stand, which we all expect for weeks now, this time through more intelligent prebooks, through more intelligent flash holidays. In this context, we are all in demand of each other – the entrepreneurial economy as well as we in the start-up. That's why the new section will have to take care of. I believe that it is very important that this time too the tour operators, the bus companies, have a corresponding flexibility, otherwise there will be megastaus in this area. In conclusion, I would like to point out what I have already said, and thus follow up with the remarks made by Mr Öllinger: Alternative tunnel construction is not the solution, but I need a mixture of discipline and smarter traffic control, more intelligent traffic flow control, especially in the expected congestion times, and in addition more reasonable investments during the time when we cannot expect the tunnel, namely in intelligent redirection systems. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5877	Mrs Steibl has now come to speak. You still have a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5898	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To say something about the duty of the Member of Parliament to say herbs, namely to shake Mrs Klasnic's head of state, went too far and would also, I believe, be lost time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Styria has most tunnels of all the federal states. Many are still complex and thus pose an increased safety risk. Therefore, the fastest possible extension of the second tunnel tubes, especially for motorways, must be the top priority. We agree on this. This is a need for survival, and that is why the expansion of the state of Styria, especially by the head of the state, was called for, for many years, for the Plabusch and Gleinalm tunnels, but also for the Bosruck and Selzthal tunnels. We need and demand the immediate award decision for the second Plabutztunnel tube through the entire federal government, regardless of the road pricing discussion. [[Abg. Dipl-Ing. Schöggl: Who prevented him?]] This does not mean that we are not basically saying yes to road pricing for trucks, but taking into account the competitive and the location situation. Steiermark is not ready – and this has rightly quoted Mr Herzegovina – to continue to face ongoing disadvantages, because we are one of the largest transit and shuttle countries, and this is about the safety of road users. It is also important that the development of rail and road transport routes is coordinated and that freight transport – especially the transport of dangerous goods – is shifted from road to rail. Summary: Therefore, we ask once again – regardless of the progress of the discussion on road pricing – for the construction of second tunnel tubes for safety and capacity reasons, especially in the Plabusch and Gleinalm tunnels – for the benefit of the Steirers and Steirers and the Pendlers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5940	There is another speech by Mr Mag. Schweitzer. Mr deputies, you still have a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e5961	Ladies and gentlemen! I give proof of Mr Petrovic's claim that safety has been reduced, in particular as regards the location of Minister One. ==References== In September 1998, it was pointed out that a number of regulations had been repealed under the Risk Goods Promotion Act. Among other things, the question arises of the standards under which the road tunnel regulation is now regulated, how the requirement to keep distance in tunnels should be regulated, or how the temporary prohibition of the transport of dangerous goods is regulated on certain tunnel tracks in case of danger in default. All of this has been put out of effect by the Risk Promotion Act, ladies and gentlemen – and to this day there is no regulation for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: With your voices! With the voices of the FPÖ!]] What is the answer from the Ministry of Transport, Mr. Colleague? ==References== In April 1999, the Ministry of Transport announced that there was a reduction in the number of re-occupied sites in these areas. A total of four of six chemical plantations are no longer re-occupied. So there was clearly a reduction in security. That's the evidence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is the proof that German Chancellor climate is financing additional risk potential and thus endangering our security. At a summit held last October in Vienna, EU President-in-Office of the Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima promised Ukrainian President Leonid Kutschma a loan for the Ukrainian nuclear power plants Chmelnitzkij and Rowno. It does not prevent nuclear power stations from operating, but it also finances Chmelnitzkij and Rowno and thus increases the safety risk! Third point: The Austrian Federal Government has given way to Austria's anti-CFC policy, because of the fact that we continue to comply with the EURATOM Treaty, that we finance the use of nuclear power plants, that when Mochovce starts, we have no decisive effect on the fact that we cannot make any decisive decision in the start-up of Temelin, because a liberal application is still approved by today, which provides for a junkimation of EU accession and commissioning of Temelin. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, at the end of this debate, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! That would be something for the security of the Austrian population. I have shown you on three points that you have done nothing for the security of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6050	There is no more word message for this. I close the debate, but now I ask for patience. It has just been said that the motion for a resolution you have now read, Mr Schweitzer, does not have a material connection with this debate. I will examine this question briefly and interrupt the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6074	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I see the substance of the motion for a resolution in the context of the urgent request to vote, and the urgent request is the basis for assessing the subject-matter of the motions for resolutions. I therefore accept this motion for a resolution. No more applications have been submitted. I have also closed the debate and now I ask you to take up the seats, because we are coming to the vote. We are now voting on the self-employed motion 1107/A (E) by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the lack of protection of the Federal Government in civil and civil protection matters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled, first of all on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on Austria's systematic rehabilitation of accident spots. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades on improving road safety through stricter safety rules for the transport of dangerous goods. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Firlinger and comrades concerning lift of safety in tunnels. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on the urgency of measures to prevent disadvantages for the Carinthian and Salzburger population as well as the economy as a result of the fire disaster in the Tauerntunnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kukacka and comrades concerning the catalogue of measures in view of the fire disaster in the Tauerntunnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request has been found by the majority. He's mostly accepted. (E 185.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller and comrades on information on the prevention of accidents and behaviour in dangerous situations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Dr Gabriela Moser, Dr Petrovic and comrades on transport guidance measures for all holiday routes, and in particular the B 146, Ennstal Bundesstraße. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are still voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé and others on nuclear energy-free Central Europe. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on the reply to the question 5730/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6243	We now come to a brief debate on the answer to the question 5730/AB of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. The answer to the question has been distributed in the hall; a reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I would like to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on speaking time: Each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes, the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Members of the Federal Government and State Secretarys shall also, as far as possible, hold to a speaking time of 10 minutes. I now give the floor to Mr Firlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6277	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! With reference to the accident disaster in the Montblanc Tunnel, Mr Maier rightly addressed a question to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, in which he raised a number of security issues. He wanted to know how the safety measures are in the area of Austrian road tunnels. The question is absolutely correct and has been justified only if Mr Maier had to address the same question to the Minister of State Dr. Een, to his Minister, for Mr. Federal Minister One – I would like to say that – is at least equally responsible for the dilemma we have today. So Mr Farnleitner, in front of the Tauerntunnel accident, presented his presentation to you, and he tried to convey the feeling to Parliament and to individual Members, at least to the applicant, as if the situation were firmly under control. In fact, Mr Federal Minister, you have excluded a number of delicate questions in your reply, so we want to raise these points in detail here today. Because reality, ladies and gentlemen, looks very different. After the accident in the Tauerntunnel with now nine deaths and numerous injuries, numerous security failures have occurred, which have led your verbal calming games, Minister Farnleitner, also and especially ad absurd. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One of the biggest security failures for Austrian road users is the permanent disputes of competence between your ministry, the black Ministry of Road Construction, and the Red Ministry of Railways, with the help of the Red Ministry of Finance. They all prevented something from happening before an accident happens. A second essential safety defect lies in the chronic lack of money in road construction, Minister of State. This clearly shows that the Federal Government is happy to be saved in the wrong place. The financial gap we are talking about over and over again is, I believe, homemade. It is therefore home-made because, as we have already heard today, the tax-paying road users, with over 120 billion schillings, are now helping to finance such projects, but only a very small part of them are actually spent on expanding the road infrastructure and thus on road safety – far too little. For the most part, this volume of funding is raised by individual transport. I don't get tired of saying this from this point of view again and again: I really feel it, with confidence, Mr Federal Minister, as an expression when you say in your first reaction to the Tauerntunnel accident, that the undisciplined behaviour of the drivers is the true reason, the true cause of the disaster. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That, Mr Federal Minister, is not acceptable, and I cannot accept this statement that you have made. I do not understand that in such situations you are always so thin-skinned and repeatedly enter fat caps. If the next disaster comes, we must clear away the fat caps from the Federal Minister in good time. Haven't you grown the situation, or will you sit down? Your colleague, what he always likes to do – in the form of the waste of guilt – is that such misreactions always come about? Because it wasn't the first time. I remember Lassing: You also missed the necessary sensitivity, Minister of State. And because we are already talking about substance, I would also like to say that the continuation of this self-representation campaign by your colleague One thing too is very unreasonable. I therefore urge your colleagues from this point of view to put an end to this disgusting campaign, which no-one wants to hear and no-one to see, immediately and to make the money available for preventive road safety and disaster protection. [[Complaints with the liberals]] A third shortcoming, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns safety in the field of the transport of dangerous goods, is the lack of willingness – it has already been mentioned today – to finally implement the many small steps and preventive measures with speed and speed. They cost far less money than is always claimed. What's this about? There are a few priority measures that could be implemented immediately: for example, the immediate entry into force of the Dangerous Goods Regulation. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary for logistics steps to be taken quickly and quickly and without major announcements in the field of Austrian Federal Railways, which is also missing. The railway is in a delay here, and this alone proves the report by the Ministry of Transport on public services, which we discussed in Parliament a few weeks ago. It is clear that there has been a 20 percent reduction in transport. In view of this, I do not know why we have been discussing it for so long. Next point: Before you start building a second tube in the Tauern tunnel, in the Katschberg tunnel and in other tunnels, I would like to say this with all clarity, short-term construction measures must be implemented. That has already been said today, but I would like to repeat it again. These range from the installation of automatic scales to the creation of video monitors to the installation of proper emergency lighting and so on. All of this can now be implemented, and there is no need for generous financing decisions. That's where you're called, Minister of State. Do it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another area, ladies and gentlemen, is the unfortunate problem in the field of truck transport controls. I believe that all these questions must be dealt with unbiasedly and loosely by ideological barriers. We must constantly address the threats posed by the Transitholle of Austria and the averting of these threats, as well as other measures aimed at increasing road safety and at liquefying traffic. Despite the disaster, the flow of traffic must not remain on the track. Federal Minister! New tunnels should be designed as short tunnels for safety reasons, with a maximum length of three kilometres, just as the Italians did in the Canal valley or as is the case in the Upper Austrian part of the Pyrn motorway. In this direction, further planning must go. The extension of the second tube is a decision which the government has taken. We stand by, that is necessary, but that would be the case with other tunnels. Only I would like to point out to you, Minister of State, that the Federal Government has, with its insistence on the decision to introduce road pricing, actually come to its knees, because it would be the task of the Federal Government to finally demand from the European authorities that it be co-financing. As long as You maintain this decision – I am prophesying to you – for as long as the EU will persistently refuse to pay a grand. It would be the wrong way from the EU's point of view. They just laugh more about the Austrians. Mr Federal Minister, please save us this Blamage in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last point I ask you to finally make yourself strong: Please strongly support our demand for reintroduction of the target binding key! This is a targeted measure through which enough would flow into road construction, enough in the expansion of infrastructure and also enough to improve road safety. The taxpayer, the driver, the individual traffic would thank you. I call on you, together with your colleague, to ensure that more passenger trains are now made available during the main travel period, so that it does not lead to a collapse in tourism and that all travellers around Austria. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] And if you want to do Austria – and not anyone else – a pleasure if you want to represent Austria and the interests of the Austrians, please, take the turn in Austrian transport policy at last!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6384	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. For the speakers from now on, a business time limit of 5 minutes applies. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6412	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats should use the request of a Socialist MEP to discuss a question. This is something I would like to hold on to. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the case more often!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] At the same time, Mr Firlinger: You should make yourself aware that you have already said the untruth again. The question received by Mr Farnleitner, Minister of State, also received by the Federal Minister Dr. Einm, on the same day. I would like to maintain that with all the clarity. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also focus on the discussion we have held today. I believe that what we have experienced today was the political abuse of a tragic accident, and I would like to tell you with all the clarity: If you had shown any reaction after the Inferno in the Montblanc tunnel or after the accident in Salerno – that was last week – then your application today would have been credible. However, you have shown no response, no request or request. And that's two months ago. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: What else should we do?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I therefore say that today has shown very clearly how the Freedom Party is using a tragic accident politically. But there are some very essential points that should still be discussed. It was called into question that the civil protection plans were called into question, that there was absolute uncertainty in Austria. Mr Scheibner pointed this out. On the contrary, one must stress at the Tauerntunnel, my very dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Technical security facilities have proved themselves absolutely well, the competent authorities, the staff and the volunteer workers have done excellent work. The next question we ask is: What's the responsibility? And I'm talking about legal responsibility. Mr Firlinger said that the real reason for the accident was not because the road users were guilty. Mr Firlinger! Look at the accidents in the tunnel systems! In the Montblanc tunnel, in the English Channel, in the Tauern Tunnel – who was to blame? It was the truck drivers, partly overtired, who were on the road with vehicles that did not have the appropriate equipment. Of course, it is also about the question of training. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For years, the HTV union has been fighting this abuse of workers to whom the freight and freight lobby is responsible. And, of course, my appeal also applies to the economy, Mr Stumbling, in Austria to ensure that the driving and resting times are observed. Federal Minister! My appeal is also addressed to you: It is now a question of ensuring uniform driving and rest times at European level for employed drivers as well as for entrepreneurs themselves. I call on you to support our Federal Minister Dr. One of the things that comes to this arrangement. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For the answer to the question: I asked this question at the beginning of April. On Friday, one day before the accident, I held the question response in my hands. I thought she was something salopp formulated. Mr Federal Minister, I assume that you would have formulated the answer differently, you would have known that this accident is actually happening. There are some questions open to our group, and I can tell you that I will send you a supplementary request. However, allow me to address some very essential points. I believe that it will be necessary to unite the safety standards in road and rail tunnels across Europe. This problem will be discussed at the Transport Council meeting. Federal Minister! I still believe that disaster exercises must be prescribed by law. I miss in your reply the number of disaster exercises in the individual road tunnels. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that I have read that you have set up a working group to check the potential risks in the Austrian road tunnel systems. However, I also believe, Minister of State, that we need security diagnostics similar to those already carried out in France. Finally, on the question of the second tunnel tube: I believe that the second tunnel tube in Salzburg is necessary for safety reasons. Federal Minister! They have just scratched the curve, because the answer to my question has not been as clear as we would have wished Salzburger and Carinthian. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6498	I call Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The accident in the Tauerntunnel has led us today to this special meeting in Vienna, and I think it is good that we are all gathered here so that we can clarify some of what has led to this accident. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Although you, on the right, are trying to abuse this politically, I still believe that we have some clarifications to make here. [[Abg. Böhacker: But now again!]] Mr Firlinger! In the question put by honourable Member to Minister Farnleitner on 8 May. It is quite surprising that you have been given a reply on April 1999, which you obviously do not know. Mr Maier. They ask Minister Farnleitner for detailed information on how the transport of dangerous goods may be carried out, and you also want Minister Farnleitner to know whether he has already taken account of the demands of the Trade Union for Trade, Transport and Transport. Mr Maier, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. A look at the distribution of resources would be sufficient, and you knew that this system of transport of dangerous goods, the verification of compliance with appropriate safety rules and the transport arrangements as a whole of the transport ministers are responsible. And this one is known to be Caspar One at the moment. In this context, I urge Mr Verkehrsminister One to ensure, in the context of an emergency measure, that dangerous goods transport by tunnels in Austria are guaranteed by an accompanying vehicle. Minister One was written by Salzburg's head of state Schausberger in a letter dated 9. In December 1998, due to the 10 percent increase in traffic on the Tauern motorway, a second tunnel tube was invited to join the Master Plan. – Well, in that copy, which I and the Subcommittee on Transport and Construction, there is nothing to see from a second tunnel tube. – The reply letter from One to Schausberger dates by 20. April 1999, so came almost half a year later. I would just like to mention the fact that the transport ministers or their subordinate transport services on motorways and highways and also the rules governing construction sites are responsible – these regulations are implemented by regulation to the responsible operator company – for the sake of completeness. But what I would particularly like to point out in this debate is that probably the excessive speed of a road user was the cause of an accident. Mr Firlinger! More self-discipline and responsibility of all road users is probably the cheapest but most sustainable protection against such accidents. I therefore propose the installation of digital speed indicators, which should be done as quickly as possible, even if the frequency of accidents in tunnels is only a quarter of the frequency of accidents on freeway roads. To you again, Mr Maier. If you give birth to the request as advocate of the Salzburg population and their desire for a second tunnel tube, then this is more than questionable. Because it was your partyobmann, Gerhard Buchleitner, who told the "Salzburger Nachrichten" two years ago in August: The increase in transport alone is not yet a reason to start an expansion debate. – This clearly shows who was against it at the time. In his rejection of the second tunnel tube, the Salzburg SPÖ-Obmann received protective assistance from – how should it be possible? – the liberal, because the then Salzburger Straßenbau Landesrat Karl Schnell told the "Salzburger Nachrichten" two years ago that the problem, i.e. the second tunnel tube, is currently not to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. [[Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler: So it is!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second tunnel tube was also prevented by numerous citizens' initiatives and the Greens. I can still remember very well how Mr Wabl of executive officials had to be carried away from the planned Pyhrn-Autobahn-Trasse. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The lesson we have to learn from this accident is that truck traffic has to be more closely monitored, that we have to raise road users' awareness of responsibility and that they must also train them to act in the event of disaster. A first project in this field, the training by means of videos in the driving schools, was launched by Federal Minister Farnleitner in the summer of last year, which has once again proved that Minister Farnleitner is running forward-looking, good policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6577	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Looking ahead, Minister Farnleitner, was said to be just too prophetic. However, I am still the case of Lassing in tragic memory, when Minister Farnleitner tried to argue and comment without orientation across the media, why and why it could come to this accident. Finally, he was not driven out of office only by the dubious cohesion of this government. Indeed, in its area of responsibility, there have been negligences that have ultimately cost people's lives. If Mr Maier speaks today of the abuse of a tragic accident, I may ask him to think a little about what he says. This disaster in the Tauerntunnel is the third disaster within the shortest time when the failure of this government becomes apparent. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Maier and Eder.]] [[Abg. May. Maier: The truck driver!]] Maier, calm, easy! Just listen! You don't bring anything together for years, except to cry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact is, if we are talking about abuse... – Mr Maier, you must be grateful that you are mentioned once you have answered a question. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Mertel, Mr Maier and Mr Eder.]] And you are satisfied with the following answer: "The construction of the second tunnel tube for the Tauern- and Katschberg tunnel is primarily a question of financialability." Do you know what I'm telling you now? – This tragedy in the Tauerntunnel is being abused for the government! The Council of Ministers has now decided, at once, shortly after the accident, that 2 billion schilling will be made available. – Didn't that go before? On the occasion of your question, has that not happened? [[Abg. Maier: Who was responsible in Salzburg? - Quick! The liberals were responsible for road construction!]] – Look You: Neither the Salzburger nor the Carinthian motorways will build and set priorities. Mr Maier. Your Federal Chancellor, your disaster chancellor – in recent months – cannot acquit your responsibility! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Should I tell you what abuse is? – Mr. Bundeskanzler, who is currently at the banquet in Cologne, said at that time in the accident of Lassing: [[Call to the liberals:With rubber boots!]] We saved him! – Now I ask you in all seriousness: What has the German Chancellor climate contributed to the rescue of the one miner? I ask you this in all clarity! Similarly, when I hear Minister Schlögl "waarding into the tunnel" I do. - I'm just wondering: What does he want in there, he wants to find the enlightenment or what? Let him let those in and make the place of those who are experts who know each other. – Yes, he has talked to those people who were necessary for the use there and who have the appropriate training. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: The haider is also there!]] To all these things comes one thing: Now, Minister Farnleitner believes he has found a convenient time to introduce road pricing. The Council of Ministers' decision was yes: We're making the second tunnel tube, but it's a requirement that the road pricing is coming. – You can afford this money acquisition action, because this money has already been collected by you. The Pickerl has been introduced for the construction of the motorways in Austria. This also includes the Tauerntunnel and the Katschberg Tunnel! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you've done with the Council of Ministers decision is the worst management, the worst disaster management. They are unable to present something serious regarding the Master Plan, which has been discussed for months. Just a small example of this: In connection with the weighty trans-European lines and the like, to make the development of the Drautal Bundesstraße more mandatory without an alternative road... – That stands everywhere, Minister. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] I'll show you this place! At the next meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I will show it to you, Minister. This has already been the subject of this committee, so I understand you all the less. I also fear that You now think that nothing has happened by the decision of this 2 billion schilling alone. I hope it will also be implemented and you will not say: The alternative traffic, which we lead to all possible roads, and what happens economically, especially in Carinthia, in Lungau and elsewhere, makes me cold!, or: I then have no money for other measures, which are also urgently needed! The end of the valley must not have to bear in mind that the lack of the overall strategy there ultimately makes people a victim of transport, a victim of the traffic blinds. That is why I think it is not enough to say that we are reversing the traffic. It is also necessary to deal accordingly with the question of traffic in Austria, regardless of the terrible catastrophe in the Tauerntunnel – there will be more victims every day! – has happened. There should be a real plan in total and regardless of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6722	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6743	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is a question of discussing a question with very clear content, I would just like to add something to Question 12 and ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to do this if possible. Question 12 is: "Why are no rescue or escape tunnels legally required in the construction of road tunnel systems?" Mr Federal Minister, you answered: "Salvage or escape tunnels are then prescribed and executed in the case of Austrian road tunnels if, in the event of a longitudinal ventilation of the escape route – depending on the cross section of the tunnel – exceeds 800 and 1 000 metres respectively." Federal Minister! I'd like to advance: As this is regulated, there is purely national competence, and there are no international rules in this respect. If that's wrong, I'll ask you to correct that. Against this background, however, Mr Federal Minister, I ask you whether you do not feel 800 or 1,000 metres of escape for too long, and if it would not be useful to shorten that. - First question. Second question: Does the reference to the longitudinal ventilation mean that other ventilation technologies or structures also require other distances up to the rescue or escape tunnels? Third question: Does the answer that you have given mean that all tunnels over 2,000 metres long in Austria are equipped with rescue or escape tunnels? - I'm asking you to do that. This is certainly not uninteresting overall and especially for future measures. Thank you, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6786	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6808	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier really did not deserve to have his request made as the starting point for a "Wischiwaschi" transport policy debate à la Colleague Firlinger. Mr Firlinger! What you used to serve on transport policy guash was, please, under any criticism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, Mr Farnleitner, you have also not deserved that your statement on the human factors in the field of road accidents has been so disqualified. I'd like to hold on to that. You have rightly put this aspect in the foreground again and again! I would now like to refer once again to the dangerous goods aspect, which has been the central aspect of both the Montblanc tunnel and the Tauern tunnel. One can read in forecasts, in newspapers and so on, that we have to expect a 40 percent increase in freight traffic by the year 2010. That is to say, there is at least 40 percent increase in the number of dangerous goods transports, and this is the fact that we are relatively poor in action. I admit that you are taking individual measures, but the primary measure, namely to prevent or to shift, has taken you too little offensively. The great fuel car accident in Vienna on 5 May. In November, once again, you did not want to give real gas in this regard and do real rigorous restrictions, relocations and controls in the transport of dangerous goods. I'll take up the subject of truck drivers again. ==References== An Italian tanker drove too fast on November 21, 1998. Yesterday in Kirchdorf another Italian truck driver was on the road too fast. There has been a devastating accident on a slight distance from the mountain. Four lives cost this speed crossing, the risky driving of this Italian truck driver! Our problem is that the overall control of truck drivers is really too low. In principle, I would like to underline every demand that at EU level, social standards, especially in the truck sector and in the truck sector, continue to drive ahead with the big fleeters and so on. That's very important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On a number of technical elements, Mr Maier's request also refers to this. It is always time and again when one speaks with experts or reads something from experts, to realize that it would certainly be quite convenient for tunnel facilities to install sprinklers, to install notches, and also a lighting of the edge of the brothstone could significantly highlight the escape route for endangered car rulers and car inmates and thus counter a chaos. These are simple technical measures which do not cost much and lie beyond the billions of effort for a second tunnel tube. Finally, let me address one aspect of the transport of dangerous goods, namely the transport of nuclear goods or waste. I also sent a question to Mr Schlögl in Hiezu, because he had promised to be very full-fledged – probably on 6 June. August 1997, I'm in the APA report of 7 August 1997. August 1997 before –: "Atom transports through our country are forbidden." – Original tone Schlögl of August 1997. Then how does a request answer to a request I have made? – The answer to the question from the 26th century. January 1999, Originalton Minister Schlögl, said – I quote –: "A complete ban is therefore due to this international agreement" – that is, the European rules on the international transport of dangerous goods on the road – is "not possible." - Quote. I am at the end of this, namely the fact that in the event of accidents and incidents there are always media stagings, major PR campaigns for ministers, for German chancellors, but they are not used to take effective action. But that would be bitter, bitterly necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6879	The Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner has now made his speech. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6900	Mr President. High house! I would like to begin by saying that on Sunday I spent a few hours with the widows in Lassing to talk to them about further developments. And I am grateful to all the Members of the House who have missed the opportunity to speak on this incident in today's debate. These are other worlds, and I thank those who have not done so! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: Yesterday, Mr. Landeshauptmann was in charge of Carinthia – Mr. Ing. Reichhold to make it clear. We talked about two things. As I had already promised to the last Carinthian government, we are ready to take over a pre-financing for the tomb tunnel. Unfortunately, it was only forgotten to confirm that in writing. That has now been promised, and you can talk about it. Because the country of Carinthia takes over the interest rates, it is possible to make a faster arrangement in this case. I have clearly discussed with Reichhold, the head of state, that this cannot be done under the premise that the country of Carinthia then generally does not agree to a road pricing at all. And we have agreed – I also say it here in front of the House – that we are once again meeting with an expert group, because it is still about the situation of some toll points. – D’accord. That's how we've kept this with the Styria, too, in order to say that clearly. We have taken into account the wishes of Styria and have said: no different tolls in altitudes or depths. We are ready to put things down, but it cannot be that the ASFINAG takes over major projects without the security of receiving additional funding in the future. I have also explained, in the context of the GSD Road study, that it will be necessary to develop sources of funding other than road pricing. I have been talking about privatisation proceeds because the new European development is forcing us to develop some infrastructure. For the answer to the question itself. The questions put to me by Mr Firlinger as "not answered" have not been raised by Mr Maier. For example, I was not asked about the competence problem you claim. I'm saying there's no question of competence! My colleague, Mr One, and I know exactly what we are responsible for. Mr Schlögl also knows. I would ask that this perhaps take note of the opposition. I am responsible for the construction of the transport system, which has nothing to do with construction, is Mr One responsible for the dangerous goods. We never had a dispute about that at all! I therefore do not see the alleged dispute of competence at all. The fact that some do not get to the brink of competence because it is complicated is another question. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next point. The claimed chronic lack of money is not given. I claim, after having had a summit with the construction industry last week, that with our ongoing road and building projects we have used the relevant construction industry very well. We have another problem. The moment we pass through the competence of public construction projects again, we will again increase prices, increase incentives to agree and no problem with faster... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] They complain – often rightly too – of seeing no one working at some construction sites. I recently said in a conversation that it turned out that some companies are getting more orders than they can handle, and then you can see the famous resting construction sites with long jams. It cannot be, therefore, that the expansion of Austrian capacity must take place using Austrian capacities in a way that does not cause inflation or empty construction sites because of overcapacity in others. [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo!]] Next point. I'm still holding on to it: If, after such an event, a person in charge no longer dares to say that human failure occurred at the beginning of the accident chain, then the refusal of reality, and it would also be a false chain of causality. I have kept myself on television, as in every interview, that it is now presented in this way, i.e. whether the public discussion imposes second tunnel tubes as a result of the Tauerntunnel. Nothing would be more wrong than that! We have to go through the entire cause chain: first of all, the responsibility of the participating drivers with all the regulations associated with it, second, the practice of the danger spot marking, the practice of the traffic lights built up so far in the tunnel, and a lot more. And I tried to represent that, as I mean. Another point: It has worked in this tunnel until the end of the tunnel. However, the fact that one can very well discuss the evaluation of the accident is another thing, for example, whether it would be wiser to make ground markings that light up, as for aircraft on the rolling field. We have already awarded a test order for this. Again: The video cameras have worked until the end, the ventilation has worked. But if you ask for sprinklers, Mrs Moser, I have to tell you: With this, you will really encounter problems with experts because Sprinkleranlagen – water into a petrol-air mixture! – in this area can cause a terrible explosion. I ask you to be more cautious with such demands. I had to let myself know. One last point, also said to honourable Member Maier in all courtesy: We have tried to answer the question as objectively as possible. For example, it was not the subject of the request to tell you that we do exercises with the fire brigades and the locals during each tunnel in two-month, three-month intervals. First point. Second point: For weeks, we have been looking for evidence from all Salzburg agents – the social partners and all the political parties – that would have helped us to get the second tunnel to talk to us before the last Salzburg elections. I should like to point out this for further interventions of this kind. A final comment, ladies and gentlemen, on what Mr Barmüller asked me to do. We have regular meetings of an expert group. It consists of officials, experts and country representatives who define the guidelines for road safety and tunnel construction. This is the way in which the directives are adopted. What you have asked, Mr Barmüller, as suggestions or questions for discussion, we will present at the next meeting of the group. I admit that I do not trust to answer each of your questions. Again on the question of the flight tunnel length: So far, 500 meters in length have been set for ventilation as a barrier, but it is quite clear that it is our house's duty to review this value again in the light of the new events. So far, this has been reviewed in the international benchmarking and has been seen as "State of the Art". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6957	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-02-020-XX-NRSITZ-00173_d7e6978	I would also like to point out that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been tabled at today's sitting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for 16. In June 1999, 10 a.m., it will be convened in writing. Today's sitting is closed.
