ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e3997	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you all very warmly and ask you to take the places so that we can take 156 at the time. The Council will be able to open a meeting of the National Council, which will take place here. The official protocols of the 154. Meeting of 16 and 17. ==References== Meeting of 17 March 1990 They are considered approved. Members Haigermoser, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr. Ofner, Koppler, Mentil and Vergestnitsch are reported to be prevented for today's session. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4031	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs Dr. Christa Krammer has waived her mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mrs Verena Dunst in her place. Since the election is already in place and the latter are present in the House, I shall immediately make the fishing of Mrs Verena Dunst. After the reading of the vow formula by the writer, Mrs Reitsamer, the representative will have to do her fishing with the words "I promise". I should now like to ask Mrs Schreiber to read the text of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4055	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4070	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4086	I very much welcome Mrs Verena Dunst in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4113	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Implementation of women's people's desire – improvement of care opportunities First of all, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is speaking. I would like to draw attention to this: Speaking time 10 minutes, opinion by a member of the Federal Government and then further discussions of 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4146	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, I have been looking at your press releases and statements since the time of the preparation of the women's people's desire in April 1997. Mrs. Federal Minister! Once you compare what you have seen since the beginning of 1997, when it was clear that there will be a women's people's desire in the media who promised Austrian women, you will also recognize the tremendous discrepancy that exists to what has actually happened. Together with a number of SPÖ politicians, they have put themselves very clearly and clearly behind all the eleven demands of the women's people's desire. They have said that equality in Austria will only be put into effect with pressure, i.e. against political resistance. They have repeatedly stressed the need for the economic equality of women and the compatibility of work and family. In reality, however, Mrs. Federal Minister, something quite different has happened – and you know it –: The gap of income between men and women is growing. Child care facilities are far from meeting the needs of both quantity and quality, especially in the afternoon care sector. The number of unemployed women increases much more than that of men, and long-term unemployment is concentrated on women. The savings packages have affected women disproportionately, and an initiative on your part to reverse these effects is not to be noticed. Mrs. Federal Minister! We miss out on your place any clear bill to finally start an offensive. It is clear to us that the SPÖ has a coalition partner who has a different social policy image of women. Only: Why you are constantly holding a defensive debate, Mrs. Federal Minister, is not to be seen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the context of women's popular desire to improve the situation of working mothers, child care facilities were required – sufficient in quantity and quality – to be created. It was required that there be two years of leave for single parents. A right to part-time work was required for parents until the schooling of the children, and an extension of the retention period at the workplace after the leave to 26 weeks. Mrs. Federal Minister! Where's your offensive? They would have support. There is a women's network – only there is no blame for the women's minister. No, there are very different advances: There are progresses of individual bishops to reverse the settlement of time limits, to threaten criminality. There was an insanity and absurd debate and a realization of women in the federal army, and there is a violent discussion that is now limited to the announcement of telephone numbers – which is not bad, but does not really help women. The best protection against exploitation, against violence, is the economic equality of women, but in this respect, Mrs Federal Minister, you have all remained guilty! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] In Parliament, only more is debated about conservative and reactionary advances, and in the media a bishop appears to be able to determine the entire public debate. Mrs. Federal Minister! Bishop Laun has not chained the savings packages, Bishop Laun is not responsible for quota policy. I ask you: Why do you make it so difficult for women in the other political groups, even a demand for women's people's desire, for example in connection with the improvements in the opportunities for care – improvements, not extensions, I think – to implement? If you do not go into the offensive, if you always say what you do not want, which suggestions you reject, then we have this effect that is currently to be seen, namely a sluggish, a constant erodement of women's rights. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said in some of your statements that the coalition partner was guilty. – I dare to doubt this in every form. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I too, Mrs. Petrovic!]] Mr Klubobmann Khol, you have a different picture of women, one that is not mine and that in particular tries to push women very strongly into dependence. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] I've been looking at this: It's not better in your resorts, but I didn't expect anything from the ÖVP ministers either. But I have expected something different from social democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why, Mrs. Petrovic?]] Because at least this corresponds programmeically to a demand for social democracy, but it does not seem to be implemented. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are serious about women's promotion plans, for example in the SPÖ regions, I have to tell you: There it is very, very badly ordered. As an example, I mention only the Social Ministry, the body responsible for women's career opportunities, the labour market service. Mrs. Federal Minister! You can't talk about the coalition partner. When I look at the numbers there: Executive Board of the AMS: zero percent of women; Board of Directors: of 18 members, three women; National managing director: zero women. Even in the socially democratic countries, no women are sent to the governing bodies. What do you expect from a body that is designed to improve the career opportunities of women with care responsibilities, if not even in this body women have a chance to have a fair chance of equal occupation of top positions? That's not the case! This was largely the influence of the Social Democratic Party – but nothing has happened in this regard. Obviously you, both women Federal ministers, have no restraint on the leaders of social democracy for your demands. Next example: The Federal Chancellor's Office, the Social Democratic Institute, which also includes you, Mrs. Federal Minister. – If, for example, I look at the Administrative Academy Advisory Board, what further training opportunities are possible: I don't think there's a single woman, and that's what determines the chances of women in the Federal Service. – I could continue this list very, very long. Mrs. Federal Minister! ==References== In March 1997, as a women's minister, you had received a "consistency gift" with the women's desire. In fact, this was a cooperative offer of 640 000 people – mostly women – in Austria, to go to the offensive. And then, Mrs. Federal Minister, you explained that the implementation of women's popular desire would be for you the "most beautiful mother's day present". - Prammer on the 10th. ==References== – Mrs Federal Minister, if you are acting as a competent, Social Democratic Minister in the form of women's policy, you are waiting for the Austrian women to receive "mother's day gifts", then, I believe, we can wait a long time. 25 years and longer Social democracy in the top position in Austria – and these "Results"! You will wait in vain for gifts, and if you don't go up the barricades with your allies, then bear the main responsibility for not implementing the women's popular desire. And that's a sad finding.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4240	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4261	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can only repeat from this point on: At that time, two years ago, I was familiar with all the issues of women's desire, and I am doing so today. I simply do not know when it is now said that no progress has been made on any of the points. On the contrary: We have put a lot on the way, although I do not really want to consider any of the points done or to be satisfied with it. I would like to address a few of these points, because this is also the subject of the current hour today. For women's promotion. – I know, yes, we all know, or at least many, how necessary it is for women to receive corresponding promotions in employment, in work. It is already a difference whether at least part of the government body has women's promotion plans, which are binding, which have been announced by regulation, but still do not. That is unfortunate, but I have tried in my ranks to actually advance and implement it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can still remember very well the debate before the women's people's desire when it was said by some of the public that women's desire was unrealistic, namely the compatibility of public procurement and women's promotion measures. – Mrs Petrovic! I will make available to you over the next 14 days our requests to show you how social-democratic governments have tried to connect this too. I have been able to prove that this is the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I will, of course, also make these documents available to everyone else, because I hope that these measures will also be implemented or implemented elsewhere: of course, in all the government departments, including the state governments, of course also in the municipalities, as well as in the semi-public sector. That is to say, it is actually possible to motivate companies to take action to promote women, while at the same time giving them a corresponding incentive in the context of public procurement. Another point – for me very important – is, of course, all those areas in which it is about the compatibility of work and family, about the compatibility of work and child. It is a fact – and we have to take note of this – that income shears between men and women are increasing. A major reason for this is the occupational interruption of women. It is therefore necessary to shorten women's occupational interruptions accordingly if we want the income sheath to close and not open further. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Therefore, it is essential to make every effort to force childcare facilities and to offer really those childcare that women – and they are almost exclusively women – need as far as opening hours are concerned, with regard to surface coverage and, of course, also with regard to quality. I am therefore very glad that the Federal Government is now making 600 million schilling available for the second time in order to do motivation work in this area, because you all know that, as part of the division of tasks, as we have in Austria, the countries and municipalities would be responsible, but until now – at least a large part of the federal states – they have done a lot, a lot, not enough. Another important point, in my opinion, is the measures that ensure that women, when they have children, still have their feet in the door, so to speak, in their job, in their professional activity. Incentive systems are therefore particularly important for part-time work. You know the individual points, and I would just like to tell you – because in the last two days there has been a lot of talk about this in the media – on the part of Social Democracy, under the title "Women's Minister" all this will be put back on the agenda in the context of the government clause: the retention period of 26 weeks, the right to part-time, the right to part-time leave. That is to say, I am not closing these points in the drawer, but I am still putting them on the agenda, and I hope that these points will also be implemented very slowly through this continuous work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very, very important point for me is also the flexibilization, the better, more flexible regulation during the karenz or actually even before the karenz, so that parents actually have the option to go not only 14 days after the birth or during the period of protection in Karenz, but much, much later once the father, once the mother can go to Karenz, where they can exchange, where there is also exchange between full-time care and part-time care, and many more and, of course, certain periods of care can be taken with the child up to a higher age, until, as the parental care directive also provides, the eighth year of the child's life. These are measures that really need to be put in place quickly. I'll give you one hundred percent. For me, the desire for women is a popular desire, the points of women's popular desire are not all that I say – and I have already said that at that time – because much more is needed, but for me the points of women's popular desire are more up-to-date than ever. It is really a question of having a public debate on how women in this situation, namely to be active and to have children, are improved – and not excluded. Unfortunately, the way to the other direction is too often presented in the media. It is actually also about a look in the right direction. We know that women want the compatibility of work and family. We know that young women very often need this opportunity to bring both of them into a hat in order to be able to choose a child. As far as employment opportunities are concerned, I am very pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs has now put the focus again, through her directives, on training measures for unemployed women by 2001. You can be sure: I will also ensure that these qualification measures are implemented – for the benefit of women, because they urgently need it and because they can rightly expect it from society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4356	We are now entering the debate. Mrs Kammerlander is speaking. The speaking times are known. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4381	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Minister, once again you have done what you have been doing since you took office: Announcements, but do not present any specifics. And that's our allegation. If, in the way you practice it, we had started with women's policy 20 years ago, we would have given good advice, opinions, announcements from us, but then again and again, what does not happen in the coalition or in the implementation, we would not even have a law of equal treatment today. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] We would not even have the basic structure of women's policy if we had done so if we had not dared to put on the table some of the legislative drafts on concrete initiatives, if we had not at times dared to formulate even unpopular or things which have led to unrest either in a coalition or in a majority of men. But you, Mrs Minister – and this is our concrete accusation – are making a very, very adapted policy, adapted to the lines and the obvious agreements in this coalition. They do not dare to put concrete proposals on the table because of the women's desire. And if you say again, Yes, we have in our own ranks stopped the Ministries to pay particular attention to the promotion of women in public procurement! and that you will present us with a report on how this works, I wonder: What, please, has this SPÖ government and the SPÖ Women's Ministry been doing for the last 20 years? You could have done this long ago under the equal treatment law! And you wouldn't have needed a woman's people's desire to do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I agree with you that you have taken the initiative and are doing it now. May be, but please do not proclaim this as a "success" and do not proclaim it as a concrete implementation of the women's popular desire! It is a measure you have taken, but it is not a concrete implementation of the women's desire. That's the difference! Let us stay with the promotion of women in the farms. We have repeatedly addressed the issue of women's advisory bodies, the financing of women's advisory bodies, which are essential in the context of qualification measures. – To date, you have not submitted a law to secure the women’s advisory services. You have been announcing this in various responses for two years, but it has not yet been available. Where is it?- Oh, my God! Where are your priorities when it comes to women's working life to bring women into work when it comes to concrete legislative proposals? Let us discuss this, but do not make the decisions in a large-scale area, where we come from the opposition and where many women here, including Members in your own ranks, have no opportunity to discuss it and decide whether we want it to be good or how we would like it to be different. You make such decisions in a way that you largely demise Parliament, because we no longer have the opportunity to discuss legislative drafts, because, in an agreement probably between Khol and Kostelka or in the Federal Government, you decide what is to be "adopted" by Parliament at all. This is the problem of implementation, and we could continue to do so at any time. I could address the question of karenz, I would remind you that, in very special situations, Karenz is also something like basic protection for women, where it is also about employment, where it is also, as you say correctly, about compatibility. Where are your concrete proposals for legislation on the improvement of the two years when it comes to the increased carnage money, which is about the carnage of fathers and so on? They keep talking about part-carriage. Yes, where are your proposals? What about the parental care? You always let your president of the Chamber of Labour make media advances here, but where are your concrete legislative proposals? You're missing, you're not present. And where is the crunch in women's policy, basic security in old age? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know that it is one of the most sensitive areas that women are not insured at age that they are pushed into poverty that they do not have their own pension entitlement. Where are the concrete proposals for legislation? You have had 20 years of SPÖ, and you have been following your words for two years now, Mrs Prammer. However, actions have been avoided.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4467	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4488	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The SPÖ is committed to the independence of women and has also achieved a number of important successes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say again and again that we did not implement a point of women's desire. – You really can't say that. We are very likely to have success in some areas. I refer to the novelties in the federal constitution – not quite the wording we wanted, but a clear success, a signal that the promotion of women is desirable and that it is the task of the state to act there. We have made a scheme for small employees, and we are now waiting for the first report by the Minister for Social Affairs on how this has affected; I hope it is positive. I hope that this will actually create a possibility for women to acquire pension rights. There is a study on the re-evaluation of work, an area in which there is undoubtedly still a lot to be done, because women's wages are low – and the sheer is dispersing. That is obvious, and there must undoubtedly be something to be done. We have set up part-time schemes in the public service, which are really women-friendly. I could only recently see that there is even a department head in the Social Ministry who is part-time employed. So it turns out that this works. And the Minister has just referred to both the 600 million schilling for childcare and her initiative in the award of public contracts. These are all steps in the right direction, steps to the realization of women's people's desire, and we want to continue this path. You asked the Minister for the Laws of the Federal Minister. As you know, there are draft laws that have been introduced by us – that is, by the Members of Parliament. It is not always necessary for the Federal Government to present something. We Members can become an initiative, and we have done so too. IIch would also like to remind you that we have made a request for the retention period – 26 weeks – and you have also submitted one. However, we will not, together, find a majority in favour, although I thought this was very important, because it would be very important if women, if they opted for a child, could also be sure that they could return to their profession. That is why it is a requirement whose realization remains at the very heart of our wish list, and I would be very glad if we could agree on it. The same applies to part - time work for parents with infants, so parents of infants are given the opportunity to work part - time for a certain period of time, but then work full - time. Of us, applications are available for single-parents and raised carenz money for single-parents who cannot call the father. That is to say, there are a number of measures that we would be prepared to take, but for which we must seek a majority here. Our position remains as follows: We want women to be able to reconcile work and family. We want women to be independent and independent in society, so that they are no longer disadvantaged. There are a number of steps that go in this direction. [[Abg. Haller: Do something!]] I would also like to mention the measures taken by the Minister for Social Affairs which are very committed to promoting women. We know that women are currently particularly disadvantaged in the labour market. In this respect, a large number of measures are being put in place, with particular reference to the qualification offensive. I am therefore confident that, although we will not come from today to tomorrow, we will gradually improve the situation of women in real terms.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4533	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4554	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! The Austrian People's Party was able to identify from the outset with the aim of women's people's desire to improve the situation of women. [[Call the SPÖ:Oh!]] However, it was only possible to identify itself in two ways, because we believe that this women's people's desire also included demands that could push women out of the labour market, such as the right to part-time work up to the sixth year of the child's life. This is very welcome from a family perspective, but from a labour market point of view, this protection provision, as well as other protection provisions, could push women away from the labour market. The realization of the requirement that public funding and contracts should only be awarded to businesses which have a share of 50 per cent at all hierarchical levels would, for example, result in a paralysis of the Austrian labour market. I would be interested to see if this provision of the SPÖ's Employment Impact Assessment would stand. To the difference between SPÖ, Federal Chancellor and Women's Minister Prammer, who has promised women media-actively to put women's people's desire to get to the point and to the point, we have made this clear from the very beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have clearly explained our position, and this is also the position we represent in our parliamentary women's work. Mrs Petrovic! If you think the ÖVP has a completely different picture of women, then I have to say you are right. And we confess to this other woman's image! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a women's image that is not based on left-left ideologies, but on the needs of the women in Austria, exclusively on the needs of the women in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a women's image that aims to reconcile the well-trained young women, the profession and career and career and family life, as well as the farmer who leads her farm during the acquisition or as a farm leader. This is a women's image that involves the top manager as much as the housewife, who will devote a certain phase of her life to family work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will not allow women to be played against each other, to distinguish between "good" and "bad" women, between the "good" women who find their salvation exclusively in their work, and the "evil" women who are employed and who may be called "baby mothers" because they leave their children alone, or "evil" women who do not contribute to popular acquisition, because they are exclusively dedicated to child rearing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An important contribution!]] We will certainly not allow that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have therefore also formulated our objectives in a comprehensive women's programme. One of the most important goals – especially the discussion in the last days and weeks has shown this again – is for us the "cardiac money for all". It is essential for us that all mothers come into the enjoyment of this achievement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I cannot see, Mrs Federal Minister, that a SPÖ trade union says that this is a "social crime". And I cannot accept that there should be injustice for students, for minor employees, for housewives. It is not the women of the rich, but those women who stay at home after the first or second child, because they want to dedicate themselves to their children, and thus have no claim to care money at the third child. It is the counterparts who do not find a job and stay at home. These are families who really need the karenz money. And we of the ÖVP will fight for this goal!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4653	Please take note of the speaking time, Mrs Deputies. The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4669	Of course, we will also pursue the other objectives of the women's people's desire to improve the situation. You can be sure of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4699	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4720	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! That the women's desire was not successful, I believe, all the women who are here in the House are in agreement. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The women's popular desire was already a success! – The implementation was bad!]] Despite many meetings in which there have always been approaches to approaches, nothing has happened. If today, or a few days ago, the Minister of Women, on the occasion of the presentation of her two-year success report, has called this gay constitutional change, which was the only result of the women's popular desire, as her "success", I can only say: I find this pathetic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is really no wonder that a women's network has formed, but only from representatives of four parliamentary parties, for which communists have also been invited, but not the liberals, with the observation that the liberals have a different image of women. To this statement: First of all, it draws a picture of your "tolerance" and your concept of democracy, an exact picture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, I would like to remind you that at the meetings of the Subcommittee on the treatment of women's people's desire, it was primarily the EIA, but also the SPÖ, which made solutions impossible. But these are now represented in the women's network. Thirdly, I am proud – and I recognise this – that if you want to, we have a different picture of women. We liberals have always fought to give women a choice not to push them into a certain drawer. Just as we stand for an option at pensions, for example, where we say we should be able to choose between contributions and a splitting, we are particularly interested in child care. That's quite clear: The women who want to care for their children themselves should have this opportunity and will finally be honoured for it. Or if they want to work, they should have the opportunity to buy qualified childcare. You know what I'm talking about: I'm talking about babysitting check. Since 1992, we have been promoting this model for the liberals, and I believe we have already brought it very far despite our opposition role. For when family minister Bartenstein at the meeting of the Family Committee of 4. Last July, I had to admit that because of the study of child care checks, it is feasible and financial if one wants to make it politically, then I must say that all the arguments can no longer have the corresponding success. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What does "stand" mean?]] The following is also clear: The first stage of this babysitting check, according to us, was always the "carrying money for all". I am pleased that Mr Bartenstein and the ÖVP are taking over today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: So please!]] Of course! If considerations are being considered – Mrs Mertel said this yesterday – which go in the direction that perhaps even the students should be given some kind of care money and the funding would be allocated between the federal government and countries, I say: Mrs Mertel, we have always said this when it comes to financing our childcare check. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] So nothing new under the sun. There is now this "network" and I would like to say: This network, which includes women from four parliamentary parties, does not want to recognise this freedom of choice for Austrian women. They are the ones who want to force women into work! I think you don't want us there: You are afraid that this will become a real awareness for Austrian women! Today, it is already true that, after an empirical survey of 71 percent of Austrians, the introduction of the childcare check is expected to improve, even 84 percent of single parents. You, Mrs Prammer, said last year in Carinthia at a meeting of the national women's representatives that you were against the child care check, even if it would improve the situation of women. – I say: It goes here, with this "network" – unfortunately! – not for real improvements for...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4812	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4828	I am already at the conclusion, Mr President. – It is about strengthening the left ideology in this area, and it is already very dangerous that the ÖVP women participate in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4858	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4879	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would be much better if the Social Minister sat here on the Government Bank today, since we could send a clear signal to women in this area, namely that women's social security – the independent social security of women – and offensive labour market policy are essential concerns for women. I would like the Minister of Education to take part in this meeting so that she can finally make a clear commitment to an educational offensive for women, to improve the opportunities for women today. Above all, however, I would like to see the presence of the Federal Chancellor today, who preaches the subject of employment day after day in the media. But the issue of employment for women is not yet a clear goal for him. If he were here today, he would hear that employment for women means fair division of employment and care tasks between men and women. In this regard, he could send a signal here today. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that the demands of the women's people's desire were not fulfilled in any single point. We also know that there are ideological barriers between ÖVP and SPÖ. We know that the family image on the ÖVP side is very conservative. Mr. Family Minister, you are sitting here today to give a signal in this direction too. You see the woman as part of the family, and you still see the woman with a, as I believe, traditional role assignment in our society. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Isn't the woman part of the family?]] The woman will be part of the family, Mr Minister, but if you define her exclusively as part of the family and exclusively in the field of social policy – as Mr Klubobmann Khol has already done – and I must say that this is not the liberal image of women's policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact is: There is no progress in women's policy and not in women's issues. What we have is a constant demand from both SPÖ and ÖVP in the media for action in this area. This is probably for profile sharpening in election times. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has called for a re-evaluation of the work in the media. – The Liberals have made this a request in the context of the treatment of women’s people’s desire. - Rejected. This page calls for the flexibility of the reporting periods in the field of karenz. In this respect, a Liberal request has been made. - Rejected. The Greens have made a request in the context of the treatment of women's people's desire, calling for two years' leave for single-parents. - Rejected. There are still enough more examples here. Once again in the direction ÖVP: They want to make courage for children. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is that something bad?]] Mr Family Minister, I think this is not responsible, as the current figures in this area speak a clear language. You cannot guarantee the conditions for women after a child's break in your current policy. There are large numbers of emergency aid recipients, there are more and more unemployed women who are also more and more unemployed. They continue to represent the largest proportion of the compensation beneficiaries. Women have little chance of re-entry. Therefore: Getting Alone With Money You can't make courage for children. There's money now. Make sure that compatibility between family work and work becomes a matter of course for women! Make sure that women are socially insured on their own! Make sure that women do not have to remain dependent on the traditional family! Then you will also find an open ear with other women.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4940	The next speaker in this debate is the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e4962	Mr President. Dear Mrs Prammer! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Schaffenrath, I take note of your accusation: They accuse the ÖVP that, according to their female image, women are part of the family. – I take note of that, and I agree with it: Yes, women are part of the family – and it should also be, just as men and fathers are part of the family and should be part of families as well as especially children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We want to give courage to the child, and we want to put the child's well-being at the centre of our family policy. The child's well-being is at the heart of our policy. Our goal is to serve him, and that is what we strive for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Schaffenrath! They also called for a better compatibility of family and profession. That's what I'm standing for. In this area a large number of measures have been put in place. If we are talking today about improving care opportunities, then it should, I believe, in particular, also be about improvements in this area, improvements that further optimize the compatibility of family and work. And this includes the "cardiac money for all". Ladies and gentlemen! The current pension scheme is half a professional ban. Women do not have the option of either continuing their work or devoting themselves – and even partly – to child rearing. You have to make a decision. We want to make this more compatible. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: When?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: 14 years you would have had time to do so!]] The "carnation money for all" is a step away. The "carnation money for all", ladies and gentlemen, is also a question of social justice. Mrs Fuchs, you asked in an interlocutory how many women would be affected and whether this was the norm. – In this case, it is not necessarily a norm woman. For example, there are no fewer than 132 000 women who, according to December statistics, were slightly employed, who earned 3 899 s or less per month, who urgently need and do not have the right to pay. Students are affected. There are 100 000 students in Austria who might become pregnant inadvertent but who usually have no claim to care. These are certainly not particularly well-off socially. They should be helped, as should schoolgirls. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the debate over the last few days, we had to hear that Caritas, that "action life" and other important organizations employ young women who have become unwelcome pregnant for a few weeks or months so that they can obtain a pension claim. These women don't know any other way out to secure their financial outcome. Do we want to watch that for a while? In view of how we can spare many young women the conflict of conscience, which is inflamed by the question of whether they can afford the child becoming, our proposal sets out the direction. Also, the "cardiac money for all" is an answer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The "carnation money for all" is eligible for funding; it will not result in a third savings package. We must not let that be said by the coalition partner! After all, it was we who put in place those measures to bring Austria where we stand, and also in budgetary reorganisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our proposal therefore does not mean a third savings package, but can be financed well with an additional cost of 700 to 800 million schilling per year. The following remains, since the importance of reducing additional labour costs is repeatedly mentioned: The "carrying money for all" with a 100% takeover of the services already financed by the families from the family fund today to three quarters makes it possible to reduce unemployment insurance contributions because there is a reduction of 2.3 billion schilling. This would make it possible to reduce the additional wage costs by 0.3 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the only thing we have to offer in this area. Mrs Prammer has called for greater flexibility in dealing with Karenz. Right! If we talk about the karenz time account, we talk about those – theoretically men too, but 99 percent of them are still women today – who do not claim the full 18 months at the beginning, but rather rather rather want to save a few months for the kindergarten phase or the schooling of the child. You can talk to us about this. Let us finally talk about it – I believe that the government clause in Bad Aussee, which will take place tomorrow and the day after, would be a good opportunity – that what Mrs Prammer and I have already agreed on will also be implemented. After four years it's already overdue to finally valorize the karenz money once again, it's with 1. To increase to 6 000 s in January 2000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this is too little to be able to live on it alone. It is an important step, however, that it would be 8 percent more than before. When it comes to concrete improvements in the karenz sector, one should do so. And if a government clause takes place, one should also bring the matter to a conclusion, especially if one agrees anyway on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5060	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5081	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Announcements, promises, consolations, deceptions: These are the reactions of the government parties to women's people's desire. This also applies to the field of insurance. That's all you have to offer. There are no concrete measures to be taken. As Mr Hlavac mentioned that improvements cannot be achieved from today to tomorrow, but must be gradually developed, I would like to say that: If this gradual process continues, for example, in adapting women's wages as before, this means that in a few years the gap between men's and women's wages is considerably tightened. In fact, the difference has not been eroded over the last 20, 25 years, but has become even greater. In view of this, it cannot be a matter of gradually initiating a process. I would rather agree with the Federal Minister who said that reforms would have to be implemented quickly. Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer! You, your party, the ÖVP, all the parties in Parliament still have the opportunity to do so today, because once again we will submit the deadline proposal that single mothers who do not specify the name of the child father should be granted increased karenz money. And we'll have to look back at how SPÖ and ÖVP will be kneading, and we'll hear again: We would have liked to, but we can't. Mrs Rauch-Kallat says she supports this concern. Minister Bartenstein – now he's gone – also supports it, Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer supports it anyway. But what is the failure of implementation? There Mr. Khol – who is not in his place at the moment – is sitting with his somewhat different, misguided image of women and is of the opinion that women who are alone in education and who do not specify the name of the child father are very bad anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] Of course that is true! There are contributions to the debate by the EIA to this issue, which shows that this is in fact undesirable. Today, Mr Khol, you have, SPÖ and ÖVP have the opportunity to document their attitude on this issue. We know that almost all Members are in favour of this request, for this concrete improvement in the pension fund. Four-fifths of the 183 Members here are for this, perhaps even 180. Mr Khol is against this, we know; Mr. Feurstein may also be. Perhaps there are also some other ÖVP men who are against it. Nevertheless: We could decide on the proposal by a large majority, and we could quickly implement it. But it is not implemented because you, the ÖVP, are an abstract coalition discipline more important than the well-being of women to deal with. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bartenstein said today that women were poor, that he had recently heard that they had to be hired by the Caritas or by other aid organizations so that they could get through the rounds financially with the child. These women are, as it were, being put to the test – for eight weeks earlier, that's not going to happen anymore, so now for a long time – so that they can get into the enjoyment of the karenz money. Yes, it was not you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, who have restricted this opportunity for women and have tried to exclude these women from the issue of karenz money. And now both government parties claim that they are for women, for improvements in pay. – This is a lying policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we expect, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are not announcements, not promises, not even deceptions in view of the forthcoming election campaign, which you both, namely the families and the women, are taking hostages. We expect concrete improvements! What really prevents you from giving the single parent these improvements? What prevents you – in this respect I am going absolutely in line with colleague Mertel – from granting the students the benefit of the karenz money? Of course, we do! What prevents you from all these promises to implement these projects? – It is exclusively your coalition discipline, exclusively your inability, exclusively the fact that you prefer to lead the campaign rather than help the women. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5142	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5163	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Today we have heard repeatedly how different the women's images are; everyone claims to have their own. I have to look around a little confused. What Mr Khol wants, we know from his statements. We know that he has a picture of the flora of the woman. We also know what this is like at the FPÖ. Once it was found that the one is the one of the taking and the other of the giving. We from the SPÖ see this already more differentiated. We are faced with key issues when it comes to the re-regulation of the karenz age, namely: What needs do children, mothers and fathers have? What are the best solutions for these stakeholders? How socially fair are the measures? In addition, of course, we also see the question of financing: How can rules be financed without, in a very short time, provoking large and large savings packages? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No, not again!]] Not again – that's perfectly right. The starting point for the SPÖ was when in September of the previous year we presented our ideas regarding the flexibilization of the karenz time, the basic consideration,... [[Abg. Kiss smiles.]] – You can still smile so pitifully, Mr Kiss, it should still be remembered that we have bound two savings packages – you may call them "consolidation packages" – which have been at the expense of women and at the expense of families. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes why? Why?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If we continue the way to simply distribute money indiscriminately according to the principle of casting, we challenge a new package of savings! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to flexibilization of the karenz age, we announced our ideas in September. I am pleased to see that in the Christmas days, probably motivated by this healing time, the ÖVP was able to join our ideas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: The Minister gave an election speech, that's it!]] We have repeatedly found that, for a large part, more than 80 percent of young people, especially women, have a desire at the top of the list of priorities, namely the desire to create a family. However, these women are immediately added that they also want to have career opportunities so that you can bring family and work under a hat. The conclusion is quite simple: We need to bring about the compatibility of work and family. It is by no means such that the SPÖ, as we are always under the control of the ÖVP and also of the FPÖ, wants to have only women in employment; [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Finally! Finally...!]] The fact is that the vast majority of women are in favour of a professional activity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ also does not stand for the "disfellowshipping" of the children – as you put it – and the toddlers in "child care centres" – as you formulate it, but we believe that children have the right to be cared for in a good, excellent and qualified way outside the family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where is Bartenstein?]] Since October discussions have taken place at social level, and there are already The results of these discussions are as follows: In the future, fathers will have their own right to karenz leave. So far, this claim could only be derived from the mother's claim. There is also agreement with regard to the possibility that father and mother should take leave for one month at the same time, the right of selected workers to information on important business events, and in the event of an adoption of a child between the second and eighth years of age, a parental leave should also be possible for the duration of six months. Negotiations are still under way – and this is important for SPÖ – for the child's care leave until the eighth year of life, an extension of the leave for single parents to two years, as the popular desire provides, because single mothers have a much higher percentage of work, and the right to part-time work up to the sixth year of the child's life. I'd like to hold on: The current karenz money debate is also about social justice. While Mr Haider is still looking for sources of money for his child care check – the above-mentioned possibilities go from federal funds for family support to housing support – the Minister says that the pension also includes a vocational ban on women [[Abg. Silhavy:... part-time career!]] That is the point of the carnage money that women are paid for the loss of their incomes so that they can devote themselves to the child's care! I am still of the opinion that the undifferentiated disbursement of funds would lead to new injustices, and I am committed to doing so – the SPÖ is committed to supporting those who really need the support: [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] These are, for example, single-schoolers, these are little-occupied women and students.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5307	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5328	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of this House! Since the applicants do not even adhere to the topic of this current hour, I also save myself. I actually understood something else under the title. When I consider this discussion as a whole, it is clear to me: The cuddly phase of red, green and the LIF is over. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Peter.]] This is obviously just about an election campaign. So just allow me to find out a few essential things: In my hands – and herewith, Mrs. Federal Minister, I address you – is a package that holds your signature, signatures by Minister of Finance Edlinger and Mrs. Mertel, as well as by ministers and representatives of my party who seal the so-called "Family Package 2000". These signatures and this package are about a year old. The package only needs to be implemented, and it would answer many questions that have been raised here and today, and implement many of the demands raised by my previous speakers from this point of view. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are really a good "opposition party"!]] However, I must say that I am deeply concerned about the discussion, because, Mrs Mertel – you were my predecessor – there are a few inconclusive points. While Mrs. Minister says that you want to shorten the interruptions by the karence – perhaps you could stop it – you talk about the child's age until the eighth year of life. [[There is a high noise level in the hall.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! It's a current hour! Mrs. Minister, listen to me!]] You have to explain to me how this is going. It has already been said today that we see the "carer money for all" as the measure of social justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 11 percent of mothers today are excluded from even slightly employed women. As this becomes clear from the point of view of the union, a mother is obviously only a mother if she is self-employed, I ask you: What about the minor employees? Mrs. Schmidleithner – always good for loose statements, such as "carnation money for all" would be a "social crime" – gave something of her again yesterday at midnight, at the spirit hour – well, it looked so good – because she said that the government had stolen the mothers half a year of carnage money, and therefore the FLAF would be so well taught. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That hurt! That hurt!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who was the ghost?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The savings packages you have spoken about, which my colleagues have rightly brought an impact, are a legacy of your ex-party chairman Kreisky! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our children will pay for it! The women of today cannot be punished in this way, and they cannot be extorted at all, as Mr Finanzminister does, and as you have tried again today to incite fear, saying that we cannot introduce the money for all, although the pot is full, otherwise we need another package of savings. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Think about your choice of words!]] Mr Arbitrator, this is extortion, and that is a false presentation in the public! [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don't need to use the word "express"!]] [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] As a woman and family politician, I just don't like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is bad behavior!]] This tour with fear is unbearable! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is bad behavior!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy, you have laughed and said in an interlocutory call that if we put through the demands of our Minister, so that this family package 2000 and the care allowance are important to all mothers, then the voters will show what they decide for. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's bad behavior!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Bad behavior is that!]] In Lower Austria they have already decided! There you recruited Mrs Mertel's counterfee against this "carnation money for all". Look at what the women's rate in the election and how your election result looked like! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's right: The women want family, and they want to reconcile family and profession. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Wait for your election result!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: When do we finally get it?]] That's why we need kindergartens. That's important. There are the so-called kindergarten billions, and I think we are finally on a good path here. We need more farm kindergartens – that's not a question – but we also need dayparents. In Lower Austria – since I have already mentioned this topic – there are thousands of children who are being cared for by hundreds of day mothers, while you, Mrs. Minister, are still thinking about how perhaps you could create a professional image of "day mother". We're already on our way here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Fox: When you come to Vienna,...!]] If you want to know something else: There are also fewer unemployed people in Lower Austria, despite the same national conditions. That is why this country has to operate well. That's all I need to say. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the family package, "care for all" and a better access to the karenz holiday I wish myself from the heart. If we want to, we can do it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5601	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5623	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate has, after all, brought two very essential findings. Since it is transferred directly, the Austrians have got a picture of how "harmonically" this red-black coalition works together. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: She's not that strict again!]] There can't be anything for women if you're going along with such chimps canonades. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second point is that Mrs Mertel, in all her ambiguity, once admitted that the saving package of the Federal Government has been completely at the expense of women and mothers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're not listening!]] That too, I believe, is an important knowledge. That is why I say again: Perhaps you are now thinking about another step and asking why you are constantly addressing yourself or yourself! You're in the government! For 30 years, you've been setting the Federal Chancellor! For 30 years now, you've been setting up the Minister of Social Affairs! You've had a woman's minister for decades! They're putting the ÖGB president! They are the most important organizers and functionaries in social insurance! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Chamber Presidents!]] You have the opportunity to act for the women in Austria quite specifically because of your competence, but it is getting worse, the more functional you have! That's the problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm really asking you: Who, please, prevents you from paying the same wage for the same work? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Entrepreneurs pay the wages, not us!]] You're in the social society! They have been sitting in the Federal Government for over a decade with the ÖVP, which is said to represent part of the social partners. So who prevents you from paying the same wage for the same work? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We don't pay the wages, but the entrepreneurs!]] Who prevents you from reversing the reduction in the paycheck? – You have shortened that, and now you say that this is at the expense of women. Why do it? You do not at least take the step of reversing this and paying for two years instead of a year and a half? We'd be there already! That would be a concrete step, Mrs. Dr. Mertel! But I didn't hear that! They're talking about some training regulations and savings accounts, whatever. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No! ... two years of Karenz!]] Why don't you take measures, Mrs. Dr. Mertel, which would really have a positive impact on the problem of women's unemployment? Today, under this Federal Government, you have a 40 percent share of women in the long-term unemployed – we know – and 73 percent of all small employees are women. This is not a situation in which one could say that women are pushing into the profession, but apparently they have to make out of the need a virtue and try to somehow improve their modest budgets and monthly incomes. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Most people want to be active themselves! That's the picture of the woman! Many want!]] That's why we said: If we act quickly, we'll get this babysitting check! Let's create 5 700 s per month of childcare money from the first to the sixth year of life for women who want to do so! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But where does the money come from? Where are you taking the money?]] The woman should be free to decide whether she is part-time, working all day or staying at home. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where are you taking the money?]] It's no shame for a woman to want to stay with her child when it's small! Why do you want to criminalize this all the time? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How do you get the money?]] You have not been able to provide children's cribs enough, although we already have socialism in Austria for 30 years, and now you forbid women to get 5 700 s and thus have the right to stay with the children at home in the first years of life. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How do you take the thousands? Tell me where you're taking the thousands!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where does the money come from?]] No, you also reduce the amount of pay and reduce the time of leave so that women only have the problem of having to find an incompatibility between family and profession. Save your Sunday speeches! Take concrete action in these areas! I can guarantee you this will create more for women in employment, and you will also create a lot more for the families. Because having time for the children also means giving mothers the chance to stay with their children without having to bear financial burdens. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And the fathers! And the fathers!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5849	The next speaker is Mrs. Federal Minister. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e5870	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have followed the discussion very closely, have listened very carefully to her, and I have remembered the time when I spent four years working with unemployed women, with re-primary women intensively. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, you can't actually say that! It was constant "party traffic" in the government bank!]] I have seen incredibly many tears during these four years. I have seen tears above all with those women who at 35 or 40 years of age suddenly had to find that marriage is no insurance and that at once there was no man who would have cared for them and for the children. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And then you will cut the rent for them! Bravo! That's where we cut the karenz money when the tears are there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If you look at the tears, that doesn't help much!]] They have been thrown out of a net and have often not been able to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Do something!]] These women have therefore experienced so much suffering because they have not noticed in good time that it would have been important not to have the whole experience of losing the entire qualification of their own profession and to have to start back at the hour zero. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Do something, Mrs. Minister! You're responsible!]] These women have often repented of staying at home for so long. For this reason, we must give the opportunity to put work and family under one hat to all the young women who still know this from their own mothers and who have experienced it with them. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you talking about?]] They know what they're talking about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: When's that coming? When?]] Let me just address two more things. First: There can and will not be a family package without corresponding arrangements for single parents. We owe this to the single-parents, especially the children of the single-parents. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That is why we need all these measures, which have already been mentioned so often. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: When?]] - I hope so soon. Secondly, If we are talking about a reduction in labour costs, also in connection with a possible pension for all, I would like to make it clear: If ever a schilling, 1 billion or several billion schillings from unemployment insurance – quotation marks – remain "remain", then every schilling, only quite every billion, is to be provided for qualification measures and re-entry measures for women in order to make up for what has been blamed for women up to date from the economy, unfortunately also by the liberals and the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6017	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6038	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, first of all, to ask a question to Dr. To judge Haider, who is unfortunately no longer in the hall, therefore I put her to the Freedom Party: [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can write them!]] Is the woman really supposed to be free to decide? – I remember this differently, at least in a book by Dr. Haider. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Since when does she read books?]] Now I come to you, Mrs Bauer: We Liberals today are not about campaign tactics here in the High House. Have the election campaign She's practicing here today by publicly taking measures against your coalition partner. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Is there no other way to deal with the coalition partner? Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject: As a family politician, I see more and more clearly how the traditional roles and distribution of care and employment for half of the Austrian population, namely women, lead to structural social disadvantages. I don't understand why the ÖVP is always just talking about mothers and never putting the men on a train. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! What you have given of yourself in this regard today simply speaks for your tradition, for your role model, which no longer fits in our time. That's what you have to say to the public. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this very complex and complex problem, the unilateral allocation of family work to women is one of the most important cracks. However, according to my liberal understanding, a more balanced relationship that we absolutely need cannot and must not be brought about by force or rigid regulation, but we need a broad discussion to create a corresponding consciousness. We need to consider strong incentives and appropriate framework conditions across all party borders so that fathers can be more involved in family work. A goal should therefore be that of course fathers also go in Karenz. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So far, however, we have been far away, and I note that both government parties have gone into a purely announcement policy with regard to Karenz. So far, there have been no applications here in the House either by the ÖVP or by the SPÖ, which at least made them hope for a common denominator. I also miss the opportunity in the current debate on the karenz period that at least the possibility of Conscious of the fact that men are also in question for a karenz age. We Liberals have tabled a request to this effect, which lies here in the House, and we hope that at least it will be discussed. On the demand of the women's people's desire "two years of leave for single women" I would like to point out that this could have been implemented for a long time, because the women concerned have nothing from the promises of the Social Democrats, as they have been given today. We know that only single parents are more involved in poverty. A recent Caritas study states that two thirds of those people who are affected by poverty and who ask for support are women, and one third of them single-parents. – Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! At least what the Caritas collected should be valid for you. Again: These people have little to say about promises and beautiful speeches. You need help! The extension of the leave period for single parents to two years, as we had before the so-called savings package, would therefore be more than justified. We also know the problem of re-entry into the profession. Even today, promises have been made. Please, do something! We need these childcare places so that we really have a real free will and a genuine equality of opportunity for our women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6099	No one is reporting on this. The current hour is therefore over. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6120	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with resolution of yesterday's day for the duration of the prevention of Mr. Federal Minister of State Defense Dr. Fassleven, on 20 March. Mr Jann, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Dr. Farnleitner. I would ask you to take note of this. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 4835/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6144	Before entering the agenda, I still have some communications to make. I would like to begin by saying that, according to Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on Question No 4835/AB on Question No 5077/J by Mr Gaugg on measures to promote "non-marketable work" by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6169	The request for a brief debate on the request of honourable Members is also to be held. Firlinger and comrades, the Building Committee on the Reporting of Requests 118/A (E) of Members Schöll and comrades on the revision of the Law on the Conditutiveness of the Law on the reduction of cooperative rents on the conservation contribution, a period of until 24. ==References== I would also like to say that a request for a brief debate on the request made by Members. Peter and Comrades, to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to report to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Peter and comrades to create framework conditions to facilitate the creation of businesses also a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Finally, I declare that there is a request for a brief debate on the request made by Members of Parliament to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 504/A by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Karenz leave grant law and the Karenzgeldgesetz, a period of time until 23. ==References== As the request for short debates to be held each time the agenda has been entered, i.e. at the same time, they will be called in the order in which I have listed them, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure from 3 p.m. The votes against will be taken following the debates in question. Deputies Mag. Peter and Comrades also requested that the Economic Committee report on applications 607/A (E), 608/A (E), 609/A (E), 610/A (E), 611/A (E), 612/A (E), 613/A (E), 614/A (E), 615/A (E) and 513/A of honourable Members Mag. Peter and comrades until 22. ==References====External links== No debate was requested with regard to these requests for deadlines. The corresponding votes will therefore be taken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations of this meeting. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6206	Next, I inform you that in accordance with § 33 para., MEPs Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic and Comrades are applying. 1 of the Rules of Procedure a committee of inquiry to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice, and suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of three Kurds in July 1989 and the persecution of the three suspects. In this context, there is also the desire to hold a debate on this request under § 33 GOG. This debate will take place after the agenda of this meeting. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6230	In order to be able to negotiate item 10 of today's agenda, it is necessary, in accordance with Article 44(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to waive the 24-hour time limit for the Committee's report. This is the report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Landesgericht Klagenfurt for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Heinz Anton Marolt. This decision requires a two-thirds majority of the House. I note that the corresponding present quorum is given. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who, within the meaning of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, vote to withdraw from the 24 hour time limit for this Committee report, in order to give a sign on this matter. I note that this was unanimously adopted by the National Council. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6261	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6465	I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 4 to 6 and 9 and 10 of the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any objection? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6492	I report that the President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" is to be agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be found by a majority. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then these speaking times are so decided. 1. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the special report of the Court of Auditors (III-155 of the Supplements) on the Semmering-Basistunnel railway project (1582 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6529	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. That is why we can go into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Schweitzer. Is it right that the clock should be set at 7 minutes? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I'm going to cross a little bit!]] – Approximate.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6558	Mr President of Parliament! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You have complained in the Court of Auditors of the fact that we are not prepared by the liberals to recognise your efforts, for example as regards the examination of variants, and you are right to do so. We have not recognised these efforts, because we know that these efforts are only perplexed. I have a letter from the Federal Minister of Transport to the Mayor of Graz, to the "love Alfred" in which you, Mr. Federal Minister, write the following – I quote – following the publication of the Court of Auditors report, where massive criticism of the project is practiced: Dear Alfred! I can assure you that the position of the Federal Government is unchanged and that the Semmering base tunnel is still indispensable. - Quote. That is to say, you too are not prepared to take note of criticism, sound criticism of the Court of Auditors and to change your position only by a millimeter, Mr Federal Minister! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where he is right, he is right!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With this, you will confirm once again what German Chancellor Klima in Salzburg has clearly expressed: You will go through this project – no matter what it costs! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ and calls:Yes]] The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany does not turn back from even presenting untruths as arguments, and speaks of international obligations, which in fact do not exist at all. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because you don't know yourself!]] Even Federal Minister One of them, to be read in the Minutes, has found that the argument against international commitments has been exaggerated, and the President of the Court of Auditors will clarify this once again. The Federal Chancellor has clearly put forward an argument lacking any basis, he has actually deceived us. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Well, be careful!]] He said there are international commitments, and in fact there are no international commitments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the SPÖ ignores all the arguments against this project and with the help of – I say quite consciously – will once again have to answer a billion debacle at the Semmering. The Federal Chancellor, the Minister for Transport and the ÖVP are carrying out this project – that is the result of the Committee on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, ladies and gentlemen. You're going through this project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Despite better alternatives, despite lack of economic efficiency, despite failed private funding, ladies and gentlemen, you want to go through this project together with the ÖVP. The Semmering Base Tunnel will be built, when it comes to you, even though the current transport development is far behind the current forecasts, although the volume of goods is more than 60 percent behind the forecasts, ladies and gentlemen, although the capacity of the mountain route is far from reached, as the experts tell us, even by 2015 no capacity problems can arise at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: 2006!]] Minister too. A statement on the alternatives raised by the Court of Auditors was clear and clear. He only strove these alternatives, it was too annoying for him to have to talk about them; this has become clear and clear. He will examine these alternatives, but in fact there is no alternative. Neither the Aspang railway, which he called "overflow vessel", is an alternative, nor the South-East Spage, if it is disciplined. This is not a topic for the Minister, as the expert group "Semmering" did not suggest this project to him. But it was interesting, Minister, what Dr. Platzer said in this context. He said: If we build the South East span, then it is likely that 60 percent of the transport substrate will be moved from Semmering to the South East Spange. And this is the evil in the South-East Spange, that is, it is made clear and clear that when this South-East spange is built, it is not necessary to do this project at Semmering. That is why this South-East Spage must not be built, because then this disaster at Semmering becomes quite obvious and the necessity becomes clear and clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The last alternative, the Hungarian flat runway, will examine you, but there is no interest on the part of Hungary, so we should finance it. That's why it's obsolet. That means you have never really been interested in these alternatives, Mr. Federal Minister! They do not think of opening up disadvantaged regions to the east, to the southeast of our country with a high-level railway. When I asked you in the committee what it is like to provide the East and the South, you said literally: Well, what do you want down there? – You already have the A2, the South motorway, which must be enough for you as a development. – I do not think that is a just answer, Minister of State. You've got the A 2, and that's it you've got enough to live! [[Abg. Parnigoni: There you have had watts in your ears!]] [[Abg. Edler: Were you in another session? Where were you?]] Railway leader Edler, watch out! That is why a serious comparative examination of the expansion variants has never been approved. I emphasize it: A serious comparative examination of the expansion variants has never been authorised. Rather, we have had studies based on incorrect data. At the same time, the following statement has been made: that some 600 million schilling can be achieved by the construction of the tunnel. Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima immediately cheered and meant not to build the tunnel, was to give up money. – How do you see this statement by your Federal Chancellor today, Federal Minister? What do you say to this sage that you would give money if you didn't build this tunnel? Although the German Chancellor's climate is better known today, this tunnel is being built, ladies and gentlemen, although, as the Court of Auditors demands, there is no current economic account to date. The SPÖ will build, even though private funding has clearly failed and not even the brave red competitors of STRABAG and Porr were willing to take over the risk. The failure, Mr Bundesminister, of private financing confirms that the project has no profitability. In fact, not even the interest rates are applied, and the taxpayer is therefore once again asked very intensively to cash out. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Like every street project!]] All the less so, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, Mr Kukacka, I understand the position of the ÖVP. Mr. Kukacka! I have a letter from your clubman about this project he wrote to a "Dear Cartel Brother" - I quote: I strongly oppose public funding in the light of the budgetary situation. With cartel brothers greetings, your Andreas Khol. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This will be Kukacka!]] Mr Kukacka! Your partyobmann Wolfgang Schüssel writes: We are entirely of your opinion, Mr President, that no tax money can be put into a project of this kind. In times of saving – we must definitely save – he writes, projects of this scale can never be financed by public funds. He adds, Mr Kukacka: We therefore say from the ÖVP that either a private financing solution must be found without the federal liability or the construction will not begin. With kind greetings, Vice Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Oh, call the liberals.]] – Mr Kukacka! I expect some clarifications on this matter. Even the Chancellor of the Federal Republic once said that a liability of the Republic is not intended. Today, ladies and gentlemen, everything is different. After the failure of private funding, the now 15 billion Schilling – the private consortium has found that the hole through the mountain will cost at least 15 billion Schilling at no cost – will be financed by expensive tunnels from the so-called SCHIG billions. If you have a problem, you can use the SCHIG billions; for SCHIG has money! Federal Minister! Where does the money come from? - It didn't come from somewhere. This means: These are debt, which the Federation is liable for, that is, debt, which is justifiable for the rest of the world. So all that ÖVP and climate have said for private financing, macularity, ladies and gentlemen! SCHIG billions are tax billions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are debt that the Federation is liable for, ladies and gentlemen. According to Mr Draxler, the Semmering Base Tunnel is made available by the ÖBB, who has given an enthusiastic fire speech – perhaps you remember, Mr President – at the expense of taxpayers. This is only possible, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kukacka, because the ÖVP has fallen by once again. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Again!]] Outside you tell this, write to the people of those, the head of state of Lower Austria tells schauermtälen, and in fact, when it comes to deciding in here, the ÖVP is quite different. It is easy to care and always in the same pride behind the SPÖ. I don't know what you promise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ÖVP supports a 15-billion schilling project, which in reality represents only a generous route upgrade of a small section of this long south railway, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The experts have told us, however, that in the event of a stronger increase in traffic – Mr President, I am looking for you to confirm this – the entire route, namely the whole South Railway, will reach its capacity limits, and this will require a completely new southern route. That this case occurs, all experts have confirmed if you remember. At the latest, the proponents we have in the government parties will have to admit what they already know: that this Semmering base tunnel is an extremely expensive, completely uneconomic and completely unnecessary transitional solution and is therefore a sharp example of the socialist waste of money in that country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You haven't learned anything: You haven't learned anything from Zwentendorf, you haven't learned anything from this ten-year discussion about the tunnel, and you'll soon experience the next disaster in Styria with the 380 kV line. [[Abg. Edler: Prevent!]] We have them in Burgenland, but you must not continue to build in Styria. That is, another Ztentendorf ruin with expensive billions was built there – just like the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] You might be able to drive Lok, but you really have no idea of that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In view of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one right procedure, which reads as follows: The mountain range has to be rehabilitated. It is necessary to use side-by-side trains. The use of these side trains alone guarantees a travel time reduction from Vienna to Graz or to Klagenfurt of one hour or more. That's far more than this expensive hole in the Semmering will ever bring. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! To this end, a training of the Aspangbahn is necessary and then a decision on the variant of the South-East spange, combined with the basic consideration that future railway development must, above all, improve the accessibility of disadvantaged regions. The accessibility of disadvantaged regions needs to be improved. You want this, ladies and gentlemen, or don't you want it? We want the less favoured regions to be better achieved by the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We are facing the choice: 15 billion schilling for one Hole through the Semmering or 15 billion schilling for the connection of an entire region. I hope that you will decide today in the interests of the Austrian people and agree to our request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially the ÖVP! Make You're inside here once what you want to make people believe in what you're doing here! But you won't do that again. They are looked through by the population. The next elections for the ÖVP are pre-programmed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6824	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Schweitzer has read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6853	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! If someone, Mr Schweitzer, is aware of this issue by the electorate, then it is certainly the Freedom Party. You are the last party in this House to claim credibility on this issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The CV is transparent!]] For as long as Dr. Haider was the head of the state of Carinthia, he was a glowing follower of this project. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With "cartel brotherly greetings"!]] When he wasn't, he didn't want to know about it anymore. This is not a credible policy, and the voters in this country, ladies and gentlemen, know this too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's not at the CV!]] As long as you are driving such a zigzag course and always changing your positions according to political opportunities, you have no moral right to blame any other party on this question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: As long as the ÖVP can!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: As long as the ÖVP can!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to start by referring to some of the accusations made by the Court of Auditors against the Court of Auditors itself. I should like to clearly reject these accusations, which have come from the Social Democrats, particularly from my colleague Mrs Herbe. These attacks, ladies and gentlemen, and these regulations are unjustified. It is absurd to blame the Court of Auditors on the question of incompetence and a breach of its competence. This shows only a certain degree of questionable constitutional understanding towards the main control body of the Republic. It is, ladies and gentlemen – I would like to hold this in the lead – that is always the same ritual: If someone does not agree with a political Court of Auditors report because he criticizes a project and a project one would like to have realized, then the Court of Auditors report will be made final, then the whole institution will be charged with the Court of Auditors or even the President of the Court of competence. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if there is a report of the Court of Auditors which is politically accepted, for example because of its criticism of the Minister of Economic Affairs or even criticism of the Minister of Defence, then this Court of Auditors report will be brought to the meeting as an objective and unspeakable witness against the responsible minister and will be politically celebrated as a document of the sole truth. Ladies and gentlemen! This is political double-moral – and on the other hand, we strongly defend ourselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors' reports on ministers of the economy and ministers of defence must also apply in this case. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, you are unbelievable in the matter! I do not want to dramatize this report – there is no reason to do so – but there is no reason to relativize it either. The Federal Minister himself said in committee that he did not accept the criticism of the Court of Auditors, which came from his group, on all points. With this, as I believe, he has shown wise insight. The Court of Auditors report is now also a deficit catalogue of social-democratic transport policy in the implementation of this project. All in all, more than four Social Democratic Transport Ministers at this Semmering base tunnel have been more poorly doctored than quite around. The Court of Auditors has to do with this a long time ago of transport policy failures and mistakes which are solely responsible for these ministers and no one else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to draw particular attention to the following: A resolution of the National Council was adopted here in February 1995 at the request of the ÖVP that the Minister of Transport should present a draft for a legal anchorage of the Federal Roadmap Plan and a priority series of the essential transport infrastructure projects, taking into account the necessary financial needs. – Ladies and gentlemen! To this end, the transport ministers have not been able to do so to this day, and we think that this is a serious failure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that it was Minister Klima, the inventor of the private-public partnership, who explained that construction of the Semmering base tunnel is only possible if it is largely financed privately. He also said that a liability of the federal government for the private-sector share in a public-interest invitation to tender could, at least, exclude funding. His successor, Minister Scholten, declared in January 1997 that private financing was a requirement for this project. He therefore does not think of budgetary funding. However, you, Minister One, withdrew the call for proposals for private concessions in April 1998. Obviously, private financing has failed because this project is not projected economically. The Court of Auditors has also made this clear. He has just complained that there is no comprehensive economic audit. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this has removed the essential prerequisites for the construction, as the climate and the schools themselves have still demanded as a condition. At the time, the Federal Government's decision to build the Semmering Base Tunnel was still under the conditions established by climate and caves. The changed framework conditions and therefore the necessary change of course to finance the Semmering base tunnel by the rail infrastructure financing company are therefore to take responsibility for you politically and to be finally dealt with by the Federal Government again. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of 1995 the National Council decided – again on our insistence on the coalition partner: The Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport is asked to forward to the National Council, by the end of September 1995, but at least before the start of the main tunnel, a report on the public search for interest, the state of the legal proceedings and the state of the overall financing. This too, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet happened. There is obviously a clear failure of the Minister for Transport, yes, I would say, a conscious transition of the National Council, which we do not, at least, take without a comment. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You have stated in the Court of Auditors that you will follow the Court of Auditors' recommendations, while at the same time saying that you have already implemented all these recommendations. This is in principle positive because it also expresses that the criticism and recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the further procedure are clearly considered correct and comprehensible by you. However, I would also like to point out that the President of the Court of Auditors has not yet considered some of these recommendations to be implemented. I do not even want to address the individual points. For example, he meant that the evidence of the overall economic interest in high-performance railway lines must be demonstrated and reclaimed in the Gloggnitz – Mürzzuschlag section. So there is obviously a clear difference between your position and that of the Court of Auditors. It is also necessary to re-evaluate the cost framework of the project by means of a regulation. This has not yet been done. Finally, a programme for rehabilitation of the mountain route should be drawn up, and for the related investments, a construction order by regulation should be carried out. This too, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet happened. We expect these measures to be implemented quickly. This is a prerequisite for effectively meeting the criticism of the mode of operation of the Ministry of Transport, but also the HL-AG and the ÖBB and for the return to an objective discussion on this subject. We are also interested in such an objective discussion. We also expect the recommendations of the joint group of experts, which were used by the Ministry of Transport and the countries of Lower Austria and Styria, to be implemented quickly and consistently. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed in-depth studies on possible alternatives are to be presented quickly in order to finally discuss and complete a legal and political correct decision-making process on the extension of the South Railway under the appropriate priority for the next 20 years, in order to ensure that this permanent theme of Semmering-Base Tunnel can be finally given a political decision. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report has contributed significantly to these in-depth studies of the expert group, to the further necessary discussion process on these possible alternatives. The question of financing must be finally answered, the question of economic efficiency must be finally clarified, the alternatives must be finally examined, and the question of nature conservation must be decided and the consequence drawn from it. Federal Minister! They are required to deliver these answers quickly and convincingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6982	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7003	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. No question: final decisions must be taken, but, Mr Kukacka, decisions have already been taken. Decisions were taken on a large scale. Decisions for the Semmering Tunnel as a transport policy project have also been taken by you, and now go You get out of here and talk like everything's still open. I'd be right if much was open. I would be right if the decision were still open, and I would like to target it today. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The Greens have always taken a zigzag course on this thing!]] In concrete terms, the Court of Auditors' report, which is here and now: He attests to this project and, above all, to this process – I emphasize: this process – how to deal with the project, how to implement the project and how to push forward the project, a series of massive errors. You know it: wrong data, wrong forecast values, an argumentation slalom, no financing security. The Court of Auditors also speaks of a cost explosion and of delays in time. All of these are serious shortcomings in the operation of a railway construction project. Why a railway construction project? – This is for me the interesting and crucial factor. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have dozens of road projects. All these mistakes are not made. In a railway project, these errors culminate at once. For me, this is the sign of a misinterpretation, a failure to push forward a large-scale transport policy that threatens to stumble through a railway project. In concrete terms, this railway project is more or less the object of the conflict between two federal states. It is practically an inner Austrian transport debate, which seems to be ridiculous abroad. This is a transport debate on: Steirer against Lower Austrian or Pröll against Klasnic – and vice versa. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's not true! That's not true!]] This is a level which is abominable to traffic policy. That's a level that doesn't bring us on. I would like to go back to the point, and especially to find out that it is a very significant process for me, that, on the one hand, on the other hand, we put everything on the gold scale in railway projects, that slutting is done, that we choose incorrect practices, that we have no proper data for planning, that we do not make proper progress in planning and forecasting, on the other hand, that we do not even use the bridge scale in the case of twenty road projects. This is a disparity in transport policy, which always shows itself, which always becomes clear in this House. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not true!]] The Court of Auditors has now carefully sorted this skewered Semmering project and has clearly pointed out that the ÖBB has argued with wrong figures that there was no proper alternative comparison at all that it was planned for twelve years to see a cost explosion of 4.2 to 7.9, and finally, if the interest rates were calculated, at least 10 billion schillings, so that it was never done a detailed variant investigation in total, and that the decisions were practically based on a mockery and prank. It is very concrete in this process that there is no transport policy as such in Austria itself, but that there is only a purely transport policy that is set in motion, depending on who has the levers in power. Transport policy is a result of road construction, which flows into motorway constructions, resulting in large-scale projects that promote road transport. This construction policy should now be changed a little, a little bit turned around – keyword "Masterplan", presentations by the Ministry of Transport. But the problem lies in the fact that we have a general transport plan, but until now large-scale coalitions have not decided on a federal road transport plan, because there is no consensus between you, which you have been sitting at the social partners' hubs for decades and thus also at the transport policy hub, because there is no consensus on the direction of transport policy. Therefore, there is no direction, but only punctual construction projects with which a total of a transport policy salad is being negotiated, with people in traffic jamming, the goods on the road, and the overall environmental policy of transport policy "comes under the wheels". This is the effect: not a federal road map, a "master plan", which is railway-oriented, but which controls dimensions, which are very likely to go there to investigate whether the costs justify the benefits; a master plan, which is not carried by both coalition and government partners, but which, as a draft, as a presentation of the ministry, enters into the discussion; a master plan that cost 40 million schilling and originally – developed by experts especially by the Ministry – represented a system of southern railways. But then the politicians "worked" then there were interests, and the October version suddenly provided the Semmering tunnel alone and a connection of Eisenstadt towards Sopron. The political will has already been articulated in a technical planning. So this is the fate of the "Master Plan", which I believe is a goal for transport policy. Second element: I should like to mention some of the criteria for moving forward the South Railway system in terms of transport policy planning: First – that has already been mentioned today – the accessibility, second – that is very essential – the location advantages, third – that is certainly an argument – the reduction in driving time. One should also consider the inconsistency, capacity, construction, maintenance and operating costs. One should set off a realization horizon that is realistic. One should also think of transport economics or move forward transport policy, especially rail policy in modules. In particular, one should weigh variants against one another in the European context. Think of Corridor V. Look at the October variant – the final or provisional as always – of the Master Plan. There is what the Koralm is about – another tunnel project – a wonderful graphic about the accessibility improvement through this tunnel. The accessibility is greatly improved – in the south-west Styria. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smolle.]] Significantly, there is no representation for the Semmering tunnel. In fact, accessibility would not improve. There is also a good idea – in your logic – not a graphic that represents the accessibility situaton in the south-west Styria or in the Burgenland, because if you were to represent it, then you would see: The Semmering has zero effect, and there are other projects that are very likely to have an effect. The matter is bent Masterly as politically as it fits into the concept. This is not a transport policy for me, it is a construction policy, it is for me a policy that is populist or, depending on which state you see it, less populist. The meaning of today's debate, Mr Minister, is to me that it should be a development. We should not be standing where we have been standing in the Court of Auditors for eight hours. The meaning of today's debate lies in my being able to answer two questions. The first question: If, after you have said, the decision falls only; unfortunately, it has already fallen for me – only after the variations have been compared, as you said in the Court of Auditors Committee, is that within the period of one year? Second question: Does the decision occur after a public hearing of experts has taken place? I therefore say public hearing because, on the one hand, the Court of Auditors was not public and, on the other hand, the Committee of Experts, which you set up, Mr Minister, does not meet publicly. So does the decision come after a public hearing of the expert committee, and does this decision include the individual criteria I have listed and mentioned? – The answers to these questions would be the basis for me for an exciting discussion, which may also lead us in the Semmering project, in the project System Südbahn or System Südbahn. I would like to avoid – and this is something that should be warned in the room – that Semmering becomes more or less an object of exchange in a large-coalition cow trade: perhaps get Lower Austria some university city, and for that the Styria gets the tunnel. In the final effect, things could be exchanged, things that are not comparable, and then, as I said, transport policy remains on the line. In the Committee, which I would like to conclude, there was a touching name by Professor Riessberger from Styria, which means that Semmering Tunnel has the mythological meaning it has. He said: "That's the God-willed way to Styria." – The discussion takes place at this level, even among experts. For the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel: That's the God-willed way to Styria! – This is a level that I belong to the church or to the confessional chair, but not to a Court of Auditors Committee. [[Abg. Wormitzer: You don't want that?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my opinion, this decision is not about the "god way" but about a project that in the long term, Austria offers a development opportunity in the south and south-east.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7094	Mr Otmar Brix spoke. You asked for a speech time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7115	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Last Friday, after the long debate of the Court of Auditors - Mr Wabl has not visited us, he has been apologized, so his interesting contribution to the debate has failed there - it has been found that – that is to say immediately with all the clarity – the Semmering Base Tunnel does not go by any way. [[Abg. Wabl: Brix! What are you for?]] He's an essential necessity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also explain why. Firstly, better and faster accessibility of the Upper Styria and Carinthias, an increased addition to the transport of goods that we need in Styria. We can then use other wagons there, which can now not be used on this Ghega track despite expansion. This must be said when the current Ghega line is mentioned again and again. Mr Schweitzer! They come out and tell them that it should be extended the Semmering Ghega stretch. You know very well that, as a result of the decision to declare the Ghega railway a World Heritage Site, this route can only be expanded as it currently exists. Only renovations can be made there, but it cannot be expanded in such a way that different and faster driving can be done. But you don't say that when you stand out there. Then all you have to do is say that it should be extended. [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's what he's not doing!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Schweitzer has no idea!]] Therefore: In order to use new, modern freight wagons and to be able to force the economy, we need the tunnel. We need the tunnel to strengthen the Austrian economic area and thus also the eastern region. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As an Austrian Member, do you want to force the railway to pass Austria, or do you want the railway to drive in Austria? – We Socialists want to take the Austrian path, we do not want a Hungarian railway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Let me talk! I don't have that much speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen! It's already been explained what you're doing – wait, wait! Mr Kukacka has defended the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] You don't need to defend him, I'm on it. The President of the Court of Auditors is there the Sovereign for Control and he has also presented his report. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But that did not sound like it in committee!]] Therefore, I should like to quote from the minutes of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, namely the President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Fierce, who said: "The Court of Auditors had by no means excluded the Semmering base tunnel, but had asked the legitimate question whether other possibilities and variants should not also be examined. In this respect, the Court of Auditors shall be in accordance with the expert group set up by the Ministry." [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I also quote the President of the Court of Auditors from the Committee's minutes: "As the report clearly points out, the Court of Auditors did not define any variation, nor did it consider that the Semmering-Base Tunnel project was "died" – which was repeatedly explained to the President that this had been said; he said that it had not died – "but only suggest a similar investigation, since not all the bases of decision are yet available." That is what the President of the Committee has said – but not what has now been said: It was a terrible report, and with that this basic tunnel had also died. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Otmar, we all got it!]] – But then say it out there if you have got it too! Say it! Don't say anything else again! I'll answer your questions, colleague Moser. Of course, together with the Minister of Transport, we will agree that, if the Constitutional Court decides positively – positively – that this tunnel can be built, Mr Barmüller – the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel will start as soon as possible. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: For whom positive?]] Of course, we are in favour of this because, as I have already said, no way passes through this really good solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me tell you something more: Do you really know, or do I have to tell you – but I am very happy to say – that the Semmering base tunnel has a serious reduction in travel time for the Grazers, but not only because of the Semmering base tunnel, but because there is a package of measures. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How much? How much?]] At almost an hour, the travel time associated with the tunnel plus the Pendolino trains is reduced, plus this new carriage material. Now I ask all the Carinthians, all the Steirers who want to go home, if they don't want to be at home earlier, if they don't want to be at their place of work. It's not possible without a tunnel because the Pendolino doesn't bring this reduction in travel time over the old Semmering track because it can't drive. This is not technically feasible, and it has also been reported and explained in the Committee. So you shouldn't go out here and say that's easy by using Pendolinos. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we have also said in the Committee - and this is also debated - that we should look for other variants. Let's look for other variants that are possible! One of them was addressed, namely the Aspang Railway. In this regard, the Minister and also the representatives of the Austrian Federal Railways, the Director-General and all the others in the Committee have explained what it is about the Aspang Railway: a Pimperl Railway, which is going through the Bucklige World, which has to cross a mountain just as much, which has only 2 permills less slope than the Semmering, where you have to dig just as much and where you only have to rebuild a route between Hartberg and Graz, if I have it properly in mind. I can quote a completely independent journalist. In today's "Press" there is an article by Martin Fritzl on Semmering Base Tunnel, in which it says – I quote –: "Besides political sandbox games, recent facts also clearly speak for the realization of the project. Thus the cost of expanding the aspang railway, which is often called an alternative to the Semmering tunnel. Five billion alone are the electrification and expansion of the mountain range. Should the route be a replacement for the Semmering Tunnel, another fifteen billion would have to be spent on the route from Hartberg to Graz." Ladies and gentlemen! It can't just be put something as an alternative, which is even more expensive. But according to what the Minister of Transport has said, the Aspang Railway is supposed to serve as an "overflow vessel", so that, if the South Railway is already too heavily loaded, one can also avoid it via the Aspang Railway. Something else is very important to me because I have a child who goes to school, to the gymnasium. One should not take the joy of teaching physics by repeatedly going through the press with false physical messages and being spread by others, under the motto: "Semmering's bleeding" – or: "There are billions of liters of water lost to Semmering every day." It must be known to everyone that the rainwater that flows into the mountain runs out of the mountain again – whether we dig a hole there or not. There we have to pump it out, but in reality it leaves this mountain again. Therefore, it is a "imposed" nonsense to speak of it. Please keep the children's faith in physics: Water that flows in must also run out again, it can't stand anywhere, but that doesn't mean it's "bleed out". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A second question is already very clear to me, especially with regard to the issue that is currently in our hands – these are the jobs. We are talking about jobs and the economy. We know exactly that the construction of the Semmering base tunnel does not necessarily create a lot of jobs, but it also stimulates the economy in the Upper Styria. What particularly surprises me and what I would like to say again in this House today is this: I too have a paper that is very interesting. At its meeting in Salzburg, the Social Democrats have clearly and clearly agreed to the extension of the Semmering Base Tunnel and are determined to implement it. [[Abg. Kiermaier: The whole party!]] In 1991, ladies and gentlemen – I will now quote from the above mentioned paper – there was a contract, an agreement that bears on the one hand – on the right – the signature of the then Minister of Transport, Strings, and on the other – on the left – the signature of the then Head of State of Lower Austria, Erwin Pröll. In this contract – I quote from it – it says: "Convention between the Federal Government, represented by the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport, and the State of Lower Austria, represented by the State Captain of Lower Austria, on Semmering-Eisenbahnverkehr. Whereas, on the one hand, transport policy objectives for the implementation of high-performance rail transport require the establishment of the Semmering base tunnel to enable efficient transport in this area and, on the other, the continuation of the Semmering section for certain transport purposes, in particular for regional transport and the maintenance and further development of tourism infrastructure in the Semmering region, Federal Government and Country agree as follows: ..." At the time, Pröll signed that he was for this tunnel – only today he knows nothing about this contract. Now I'm asking the ÖVP: Are you in favour of this contract that Pröll signed at the time? – Then you also stand for work and business. Or are you not in favour of this contract signed by Pröll? – Then don’t stand for work and business! Then, too, stop saying that you want to help create work in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me say something: The Semmering base tunnel is more necessary than ever. Goods transport, Mr Kukacka, is increasing on the road. Help your Minister of Economic Affairs ensure that in Austria road pricing for the trucks, a pickerl for the trucks is introduced faster! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Don't distract!]] Help, like Mr Verkehrsminister, to ensure that people are not harassed by road traffic, but that truck traffic is shifted to the rails! Help the Obersteiermark and Carinthia get those economic connections in Austria that also have the other federal states!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7311	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7332	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has, however, shown a number of interesting points of view in a more than eight hours' discussion. One of these conclusions that can be drawn from it, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to tell you in all clarity, is that there are very likely a number of not yet calculated alternatives to the Semmering Base Tunnel project. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! One has to take note of this! We have, as it were, drawn up almost a word protocol of what has been proposed here from the expert side. One had the feeling that just a few variants that were employed loose were simply not desired – not desired in terms of their economic calculation. Mr Federal Minister, this is exactly what we are talking about. We do not want to "turn off" anything from the FPÖ, but we want – I say this to Mr Kukacka's address and also to Mr Brix's colleague "Physics Professor" – that the South of Austria receives the best, most economical and environmentally friendly links to the north of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why, Mr Lukesch, I cannot accept the fact that Mr President-in-Office of the Council once again says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] Semmering Base Tunnel – that's it! This is where the railway runs – in the truest sense of the word – and there are no alternatives. - That's just not true. Let's stop following these rumors! It is a rumor that there are no alternatives. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I say that to the SPÖ address, follow the statements made by your Minister of State Schlögl, who is now also head of the state party in Lower Austria. This approach is much more moderate and more reasonable. He says – as can be read in a press release – that: The Semmering tunnel is a variant, and you have to check all. – Mr Brix and Mr Federal Minister But one ignores this and says: There is only this variant. – This is simple and simply wrong, ladies and gentlemen! We need to test all variants sensibly – all variants including the connection of the southern railway to the Hungarian flat railway. It is not true, Mr Federal Minister, that Hungary has no interest at all in it. You just don't want to pay for it right now. Therefore, they do not want to pay because the question of EU accession is in the room, which has not yet been clarified and there has not been an acquis screening. I cannot imagine, however, that Hungary, which is at least seriously interested in liberalising trade in goods, has no interest in it. That's wrong. Therefore, one can also let some component that makes sense into the planning considerations. After all, we should consider: What about a generous expansion of the Aspang railway? How far have the planning considerations been to develop this corridor V economically, economically and cost-effectively in the sense of the taxpayer, and how far have the considerations been given to extend this route from north to south, namely from Upper Austria over the Pyrn? That, ladies and gentlemen, is a sensible concept, and we do not need to continue to argue about any details; for I too am clear: We need a large, transport-political solution here. We do not want to see the voters of the FPÖ, the citizens of Austria in ten years perhaps making the accusation: You have agreed to a senseless solution. We want the taxpayer's money to be handled carefully and not to impose unnecessary burdens on the taxpayer. Therefore, we also need to focus transport policy on the appropriate efficiency sizes and really ensure optimization here. This is our position. I can only tell you one thing: Make a reasonable transport policy and say goodbye, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, of 30 years of misguided red transport policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7413	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7434	Mr President. High house! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I think it is already time to give answers to some of the statements that have been made. I will take the liberty, perhaps at a later date – if new aspects occur – to lose some word or other. First of all, let me make a fundamental comment. They are, of course, rightly insisting on developing an overall transport concept and not exclusively discussing detail of transport buildings or transport planning. Amazingly, however, you do exactly that! Of course, we are pursuing a total transport concept. The master plan quoted today also shows in which areas of the high-level rail network and in which areas of the high-level road network are to be further developed in the sense of better accessibility, in the sense of securing the economic location of Austria and in the sense of the neighbouring and environmental interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] High house! It is not only necessary to expand our most important East-West-Transversals, the Westbahn, accordingly – as you know, we are in the process of four-tracking the Westbahn – but of course it is also about expanding the South Railway system accordingly, because it is rightly argued that the connection of the federal states of Styria and Carinthia to the Federal Capital at least does not correspond to the state as it did in the 20th century. ==References====External links== That is why we will take action here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second – many of the speakers have addressed this – is the question of economics. The following, my Ladies and gentlemen, it should be quite clear to all of us – that is also the basic idea expressed by the Committee of Experts for the further development of the Südbahn system – that the development of an existing system by type of a modular system is always more economical and useful than the establishment of a completely new route, which is only available in decades and, secondly, the consumption of billions of money that are not in any relation to the Semmering line. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schweitzer! Of course, as I have already told you in the Court of Auditors, the construction of the South-East Spage, as always, would be in detail, for the regions covered by it, as far as accessibility improvements are concerned, would be the better solution. There is no reason at all to dispute that. All the data of the Master Plan, in which precisely these questions were examined, also show this. The first point is that no one has said so far that this variant, even if it would be started immediately with planning and construction, would be available before 2020. I think we owe people in Styria and in Carinthia that we come to solutions a little faster. The second is that I would also like to express my concern here that all those who would like to put themselves on the tracks today, so to speak, so that the Semmering base tunnel is not built, would of course lie down on the South-East spange tomorrow. It is an illusion to believe that this is suddenly that project, for which everyone then comes. High house! I think we should also have a rather serious and serious discussion with each other in transport policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me also give a few answers to some of the detailed questions that have been raised. It has been asked by several speakers, including Mr Kukacka, for example, to answer the question of the examination of economic efficiency and the evidence of economic efficiency, exactly this section of the route we call Semmering-basistunnel. High house! There is one reason for this – if we think a little bit about it, we all know that – why the public hand stands straight for parts of the infrastructure in that country and finances it. This reason is relatively simple to specify. Neither road projects nor railway projects nor sewerage projects nor water pipeline projects are launched by private individuals, because they are necessary on the one hand and, on the other hand, generally do not have that cost-effectiveness to make them profitable. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The Federal Chancellor told us something else!]] But that does not mean that we do not need them yet. Of course we need water supply, of course we need road connections, of course we need an appropriate railway infrastructure, but these are not in themselves profitable companies, otherwise we would have used to having these projects carried out, financed and operated with profit. This is not the case with us in Austria or anywhere else in the world. We should also take note of all the seriousness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, what it is all about and what the Court of Auditors' report refers to is that, if there are various alternatives or variants that are useful to consider, they should also be examined accordingly. Therefore: Yes to this part of the Court of Auditors' report! I have explained at any time – even before the Court of Auditors report is available, for example, as the expert committee has made similar recommendations – that we will follow it. All those who have asked me again when the decision for or against the tunnel will fall: I also gave a clear answer to this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. I do not think it is necessary to say all things twice if you have heard them anyway. But I'd like to be ready to mention them. We will carry out the variant examinations, with all seriousness and energy. As Professor Scholl has said in the Committee, I expect that the main results will be available within the financial period. We will then have to consider whether this is a sufficient basis for a decision, and then we will decide. That's the answer to that. And I also gave this very answer in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. They may be read in the minutes of the meeting of the Committee of the Regions. Now for a few other details. Mr Schweitzer, you have said many things, which were also a little connected with what has actually been said in the Court of Auditors' Committee, but: A little side by side is also in addition. You said I said there were no international obligations at all. - That's wrong. I have said – and this is what the Court of Auditors says – that there are no international obligations that require us to make a specific and concrete project. That's right. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There are no international obligations regarding Semmering!]] – But you didn’t say that either. You said there was no obligation at all to do anything. And that's wrong. It is true that Austria is obliged to build on this axis a high-performance, certain parameters which are internationally defined, corresponding railway track. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Don't be the tunnel!]] – Of course, it doesn’t have to be the Semmering tunnel. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Well, then!]] I never claimed that. But you said there were no commitments. - That's wrong! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For the tunnel!]] You didn't say for the tunnel. I think you should also try to stick to the truth. That would be according to the High House. [[Abg. Madl: Stay with the truth!]] Mr Schweitzer! On the question of the capacity of the mountain route: I believe that it is no longer advisable, particularly in the light of the Court of Auditors' report, to operate with large numbers. The Court of Auditors report, which has been systematically collected for one year, shows that the calculation or theoretical capacity of Semmering is available only on 23 days in the calendar year. They do not have to expect that this number will be dramatically improved, because even if the renovation work, which we are confessing to and whose preliminary investigations are already under way, will not improve at all, because the reorganisation in ongoing operation inevitably leads to the fact that we always have to block part of the track sections and thus only half of the capacity is available. I really ask you to ensure that the people do not face sand on this issue. The data are clear enough. The Court of Auditors is an unwarranted witness to such statements. A very last comment on the question of financing: It is said again and again or as if the financing of the Semmering tunnel or other railway structures would have to meet special requirements. Semmering is a part of the excretion of the southern railway track – and nothing else. The entire railway network in Austria, all of which is carried out in construction and construction, is financed by the rail infrastructure financing company. The financing of these railway infrastructure projects is carried out in such a way that the SCHIG takes up loans and that these loans and their interest rates are repaid via rail usage charges, to the fullest extent. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who is responsible for this, Minister?]] – The question of liability does not arise, Mr deputies, because the credits are channelled through the proceeds from the ÖBB. The sales sector of the ÖBB – not the state part that is subsidized but the sales area of the ÖBB – which in the new form not only displays profits per year but also makes profits, pays almost 3.7 billion schilling in 1999 for the use of the railways in Austria. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That means they get the money without liability!]] We have long introduced something in the area of rail, which unfortunately still stands out in the area of road, namely rail pricing. The revenue generated shall cover both the financing costs and the repayment of the appropriations received. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Lukesch) What do you say that the question of liability does not arise?]] Mr Schweitzer! If you now want to try to give the impression that the taxpayer would come in some way to the hand kiss, then this is simply a misinformation. It is true that no single tax schilling is involved in this financing, and this should also be noted.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7611	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7660	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that the procedure was somewhat confused that the Liberals in the Court of Auditors were the only opposition group and were still positive in taking note of the Court of Auditors' report, like the government groups. This seems to have caused a little confusion, because the government fractions in the emotionality of the discussion and in the hurry of the vote have completely overlooked that this report of course contains a very massive criticism not only of the current Federal Minister, but also of all the other Federal Ministers who were already concerned with the Semmering Base Tunnel before him. In that respect, Mr Federal Minister, you have no easy time, of course, because you are criticized by the opposition, but by Mr Brix. That's not exactly a pleasant situation. I would also like to point out that your speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is also not appropriate to address those problems which have been identified by the Court of Auditors in any way whatsoever. Because the first point you referred to was the overall concept. You said we needed an overall concept of which the Semmering base tunnel was only a part. And the "Master Plan" would be this overall concept. – In reality, however, the "Master Plan" was only the escape of a deadlock situation, which has existed since the term of office of the Federal Minister of Social Democrats Lausecker. From Lausecker this continued over Lacina, Strings and Climate to Scholten and One. All these ministers have – this is also in the "Semmering Base Tunnel". The black-on-white book – a federal road map has already promised, but this promise has not been kept. In this context, the following was also noted: The Liberals have been calling for the establishment of an infrastructure ministry for two years, in which the competences for planning roads, rails, water transport routes, pipelines, data networks and power supply – as long as they are not privately owned – are summarized. Air transport must also be included. All of this must include a federal road map. It has been working on it for over 15 years, but nothing is going on in this matter, although this great coalition has begun to solve the major problems of this country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister For one thing, it was decided to go to the public with such a "master plan" on which Mr. Farnleitner was hurt, because he found that the road was too short in it, and a "master plan" was also announced for the road. In this question, Red plans against Black and everyone together against the budget. But this is not the way to go, so we Liberals are calling for the establishment of such a Ministry of Infrastructure here again. Federal Minister! They have stated that there are many counterarguments, especially as regards the South-East span, and that those who are now against the Semmering Base Tunnel would ultimately also be against the South-East Spage. I do not understand, however, why, in this context, we are talking about the "discipline" of the entire southern railway, but at the same time we are capriating on the Koralm Railway, because you know that the same problems will probably arise in the area of the Koralm Railway. But if that is the case, then according to your expansion plans – since you want to have a "discipline" of the south railway within a certain time, in a time frame that is also politically manageable – the whole South Railway must be "flighted" and not only under tunneled under Semmering. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because by subtunneling the Semmering there will be some positive aspects, but the South Railway as a whole will not be better. Federal Minister! On the question of public funding, you have said that road, rail and water transport are always publicly funded. – First of all, it should be noted that the argument of the Social Democratic Transport Ministers – in particular the current German Chancellor climate – has clearly stated that those achievements that exist within the framework of legal financing, i.e. planning and all these things, are provided by the federal government, the construction of the tunnel should then be financed entirely. – This was how Transport Minister Viktor Klima spoke. June 1995 in an interview with the then "Economics Week". I'm wondering, What has led to this change of mood? What, then, are the factual arguments that prompted the so-forwarding Maker climate at that time to say that this will be done with private funding and that will lead the ministers of transport who are now just as forward-looking and successful at international level to say: I'm sorry, Federal Chancellor, that was a fool at the time, that's not feasible! – The argument for why this is so is still missing. Given how the arguments for the Semmering base tunnel changed, the credibility of the Federal Government does not increase. Federal Minister But one of them has cleared up in the Court of Auditors, for he has said: The Semmering Base Tunnel is a political decision. I think this is progress, because it was really the case, as Mrs Moser said, that one of the experts felt it was a religious decision. He said that's the "God-willed way" to the Styria, going over the Semmering. [[Cheerfulness at Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] I am glad that the Federal Minister has enough distance to such religious populisms and says: No, that's a political decision! and wants to remove it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, one aspect, Mr Federal Minister, which shows the difference between rail and road in terms of private financing, is worth mentioning from the point of view of us liberals: Road transport is liberalized and rail traffic is monopolistic! If you now say that this project does not involve tax schilling, because that is served by the ÖBB, then... [[Abg. Wabl: The street is liberalized?]] Of course, the services provided on the road, Mr Wabl, are liberalized. [[Abg. Wabl: The cars are liberalized!]] The infrastructure is provided by the federal government, the services provided on it are provided by private individuals. In the rail it is the other way round: The Federal Government is building the infrastructure – albeit distributed through the SCHIG – and the ÖBB, Mr. Deputy, provides the services, but more poorly than right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] Mr Draxler, Director-General, said in committee: We are a modern company, we want more competition! – I would be pleased if this modernity were also expressed in the advertising of the ÖBB and if one did not work with such elaborate women’s images, as is the case at present. The Federal Minister could perhaps raise his vote on this question too. [[Congratulations to Dr Schmidt and Tichy-Schreder.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's what he did!]] That is what he has done, yes, but very quiet and so that, although one can say that something has happened, nothing has happened at all. [[Abg. Wabl: I don't share his opinion!]] It remains the same impression that you get even more precisely when considering the arguments for the Semmering base tunnel. I am not speaking now of the physical statements made by Mr Brix, but of what has been politically argued. In this respect, the arguments have changed over and over again, and it is precisely through such publications that these various arguments were simply not sustainable. [[The speaker holds a book entitled "The Semmering Base Tunnel. The Black-on-White Paper]] But now we know that the decision on the Semmering base tunnel will be a political one. But I do not want to let you go through one of Mr Brix's speeches, namely that you say from this speaker's point of view: If you are against the Semmering Base Tunnel, it is against the creation of work in Austria. [[Abg. Brix: I didn't say that! I said he's against the economic area in the Upper Styria...!]] That's right! They said: against work and economics; we take the second argument to that too. Mr Brix! For us Liberals, it is clear that policy does not create jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If anyone creates jobs, ladies and gentlemen, it is always the private sector. There are customers and entrepreneurs who have to satisfy this demand. That's the case. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What we have to do is create the right framework conditions for this economy in Austria. In this context, I remind you of the contract regulations, I remind you of the lack of overall planning in the transport sector, I remind you of your tax legislation. [[Abg. Wabl: This is a fairy tale from the liberal baking house!]] In listing all these things, you will realize that your access, which is obviously the one to use public funds without taking account of economic efficiency – and this is a criticism which the Court of Auditors also made clear in this report, namely that the funds have not even been used economically – is simply the wrong way. Because the question is: With what effort, with what financial effort will what result be achieved? That is the real question and not the one whether or not any result is achieved at all. That seems to you to be enough, the Liberals are not enough! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] Mr Brix! The meeting of the Court of Auditors was therefore interesting because I have rarely seen such "smearing" representatives of a government party. You were one of them, and you were also somewhat irritated by the fact that I voted in favour of this Committee report. I have therefore done this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is peculiar that the representatives of the ÖVP sit in the Committee on the Court of Auditors and laugh at this report – Mr Kukacka was very pleased with it – but cannot use this political success, this criticism of the Court of Auditors at the Minister for Social Democratic Transport, because the party is simply too disputing internally. [[Calls and calls between representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Even Mr. Vice-Chanceller Schüssel said that the whole issue of the Semmering tunnel for him is just another example of the SPÖ's refusal of reality in the face of upcoming problems. – It looks nice in this coalition! If this is the opinion of the ÖVP, then it becomes clear why no decision has yet been taken on this matter: because the Federal Government is completely disputed in itself and it is apparently not possible for it to find a common procedure on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] To date, you have simply not been able to draw up a variant, for example between the federal government and countries, which would have made it possible to obtain the consent of the countries, Mr Wurmitzer – and this is a primary problem of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is pure wishful thinking, Mr. Cot!]] You didn't succeed! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] At the same time, the ÖVP Ministers in the Federal Government have not objected to the Nature Conservation Act in Lower Austria. Mr Bartenstein has been silent in the government, and the other ministers of the ÖVP have been silent, even though the possibility of refusing to do so from the outset – although only for a limited period of time, it would have been a possibility. They did not do it because of the upcoming Lower Austria elections. That is why we are now in the situation that the Constitutional Court must decide something which the Federal Minister clearly defined as a political decision. As I said, In the Committee's view, although the SPÖ was bitter but powerless to dissuade the criticism of the Court of Auditors is simply a fact. And that's why You agree with this report, which contains massive criticism, today. But you are of course criticizing the policies and procedures of your own Social Democratic Ministers! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We really think this is a positive sign and hope that you will implement it in the future. For I have already told you that the arguments listed in the report are not new. They were already here to read, appeared in the middle of 1997. [[The speaker holds the book again with the title: "The Semmering Base Tunnel. The Black-on-White Paper]] Nor are the political miscarriage of the Federal Ministers new, and with regard to the refusal of reality that you are doing in these things, you must, as I said, contact your government partner, which will explain this to you. I would just like to quote some of the conclusions. According to the Court of Auditors – and this is directly addressed to the Federal Minister – there is still a lack of clarification of the line management for the future South Railway. That means there's no overall concept. This also concerns the "Master Plan", even this one is not an overall concept. In particular, however, there is a point to be taken out which is aimed exclusively at the science and transport sector. The Court of Auditors – and the Federal Minister himself said that this was an unwarranted witness in this matter; in the view of the Federal Minister, the Court of Auditors is an unwarranted witness on such findings – notes that "the evidence of the overall economic interest in high-performance railways is to be demonstrated in an comprehensible manner and the Gloggnitz – Mürzzuschlag section". – He does not say "to rework", he says "to overtake", but he also says – and the Federal Minister himself called him unwarranted – that this has not been done so far. But if it has not been done so far, I wonder: How can we be quite modest about other variants in the discussion if we have not even thought about this variant, as the unwarranted witness of the Court of Auditors, according to the Minister, holds in this report and what the SPÖ Group will take note of with its votes today. A third point I would like to make: Alternatives to the existing concept must be developed. It is clear that the cost framework has so far not been defined by the Federal Minister by means of a regulation. He said in the Court of Auditors that he would do so only if the probes were ready, because it was only then that one could estimate that. - That sounds reasonable. Only if it sounds reasonable that it is only then that you can really estimate the costs, then all that you have done so far in cost comparisons was cash any basis. And that you keep the Republic in a state of excitement with cost comparisons, which are the bar of every basis, such as the "unsuspected" witness Court of Auditors in this report which you will notice today, you must declare credible to voters in that country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, nine of these 12 findings, which you will decide today – with the votes of the Liberals – concern exclusively the seat of the Federal Minister. This shows that the failures have really been great. You are still, ladies and gentlemen, but I have been given the impression in the Committee's discussion – apparently right – that there is no interest in really eliminating these mistakes. That is why the Liberals have also made it clear here: Building a Semmering base tunnel without any flanking measures – and this is exactly what it is about; we are discussing the Semmering Base Tunnel as a single project – is a Zwentendorf in the mountain. [[Abg. Wabl: Go, Barmüller! Now he starts with the stupid diction from the ass!]] After Zwentendorf and Hainburg you will build another village in Austria with the Semmering Base Tunnel, which you simply put into this route, and this time you will build it into the mountain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that the rest of the South Railways are also needed, and it is thanks to the Court of Auditors that he has included in his conclusions the expert report commissioned by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs last September. In point 4, it is clearly stated that it is a matter of making the "transport efficiency of the coral railway" as quickly as possible "to avoid the following investments" – that is, when the Semmering base tunnel is built, the Koralm tunnel can be made in order to avoid the following investments: "Volausbau des Knots Obersteiermark" and – important point – "Enhancement of the rest of the South Railway (St. Michael – Neumarkt – St. Veit – Klagenfurt)". – This should be avoided! That is, you want to leave the rest of the Obersteiermark from Bruck towards Carinthia simply in the current frame! These are the measures that must be avoided, according to the statements of the Committee of Experts, which the Minister of State considers to be worthy of implementation. For the Koralmbahn, which at the moment only exists as a political idea, but not yet as a real project, the same authority procedures, the same permits and planning and the same as for the South East Spange. The Federal Minister said that this could not be implemented over the next 30 years. That is, you want to start the Koralmbahn as a political goal, but you expect a thirty-year implementation time and admit that the expansion from Bruck/Mur to St. Michael, Neumarkt to St. Veit – Klagenfurt will be broken over the next 30 years. This is not a forward-looking approach, and it once again underlines that the social democrats in the monopolistic ÖBB, which they consider to be their own, also party-politically important area, are interested in human development and the holding of electorate numbers, but not in expanding the infrastructure in Austria as much as it would be necessary for the economy. In this respect, they have been sluggish for more than ten years! They are somewhat in line with these questions, and we therefore ask once again and in conclusion that there must be an infrastructure ministry in Austria in which all these competences are put into one hand. If you are not able to solve the major problems of this country, It is not in this direction either, but you acknowledge that the Federal Government has not only been sparse in this matter but has also been unable to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7905	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7935	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! We have already heard some sensational political news in today's debate, such as rainwater flowing down and not up. The whole debate is, in fact, not suitable for making real progress in transport policy, especially in terms of the development and support of the railways. It is sad that, as a summit of transport policy in Austria, nothing remains but the polarization for or against the Semmering Base Tunnel, driven by both government parties. What it's all about is forgotten. Those who are in themselves skeptical of the priority of the Semmering base tunnel or the project have taken note of arguments. They have, in particular, to bear in mind that high-performance routes alone are not suitable for absorbing the dramatic losses of the railways, particularly in freight transport. At present, the proportion of railways is about 13 percent of freight traffic. – The trend is falling. I dare to predict that this trend will not be inhibited with or without a Semmering base tunnel. Federal Minister! If you say again and again that we want to shift traffic to the rails, all the greens unisono say to you: Yeah, that's what we want! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But which one?]] However, if you always link the success of this project with the Semmering-Base Tunnel project alone, I will tell you that it will not be so. It can represent high-performance lines, including tunnel lines, an aspect of such a package, but they will fail on their own. The great disadvantage that railways have today lies, above all, in a much smaller capacity for networking, Mr Federal Minister! The rail network has been continuously diluted. The further disadvantage that the railways have is that there are still no favourable conditions as regards logistics, house-to-house transport and timely transport. What about the confession debate "Yes or no to the Semmering Base Tunnel?" I can't see what I'm supposed to do. That means you have the question: Where is the total package?, which is always addressed to you, not answered. – As long as this question is not answered, it will be about this war of faith, and as long as there is no real support for this project across the party borders. Mr Federal Minister and Deputies Brix! Why this is made such a war of faith I cannot understand. The Socialist MEPs, who are always so happy to understand themselves as representatives of the railways, as representatives of the railways and railways, expect that it should be impossible to speed up the aspang railway, and that it should be impossible to realize other projects, but that is also the reason why it is not going to do so alone. I say that we need a pioneer phase as far as railways and rails are concerned. We need a compaction of the network. We need new construction lines, and above all we have to... [[Abg. Brix: On the Aspang railway should be used as an "overflow vessel" for commercial transport...!]] No, Mr Brix! Not only under "remotely ran", and not just as "overflow vessel", as you call it! Unfortunately, there is still nothing going on for a long time, because the rail is currently not competitive over the road, due to the lower network capacity and because of the lack of logistics. And by saying again and again that this will eventually come under "a distance", you are continuing exactly that war of faith which Mr Pröll has so far decided for himself and which you have led to the burdens of the railways. That's the harm. To get out of this situation, you would have to say: Of course, East Styria is also better connected and the traffic flows are accelerated there. Of course, something has to happen for the Burgenland. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] It is a disaster that you travel by train one and a half hours to Eisenstadt. Or if you drive by rail to Schwechat Airport, you can see that it is a shame, how this route looks and how rail traffic is handled there. All of this has to be done, and that is why it is so bad that you focus exclusively on the question of "basic tunnel yes or no". I understand the arguments of the Styrian Members who say: We no longer let ourselves be planted, we no longer get to the nose, and that is the only project that is quite concrete. But I do not understand why you have put it on this polarization at all, rather than that you are fundamental to the priority of rail transport. This can not only apply to a project and to this tunnel tube! That's inconsistent. [[Abg. Kiermaier: What about the West Railway? Isn't that a project?]] Deputies! I have just told you – and I do not understand why you do not respond to this argument – that the great disadvantage of the web is too thin, which you thinned out. If you are always only using existing routes – that can also be useful in detail on routes whose capacity is spent – at any rate reinforce, improve or speed up, then this will not really combat the most serious disadvantage of the railway, namely that it cannot go anywhere and that logistics is bad. But the Minister of Transport has remained guilty of an answer, and the Court of Auditors has sued the answer to this question. Therefore, you could receive much stronger support from the Greens – including from high-performance projects – if you finally answered these questions: What are you doing with the track in the area? How will the sideways be preserved? Which cooperation – including with private individuals – are you seeking in these areas? Or is it really just this either-or-or-solution? One last thing about the Semmering Base Tunnel as such: I hope that the Austrian Federal Railways and HL-AG are ready to learn to do so in this area too. For in view of the fact that they have so far been dealt with in their contracts with the people concerned, it must be said that it does not correspond to a modern, dynamic and democratic railway, but rather sounds very much like contract dictates when one concludes and says: We will eventually take advantage of areas – or not. It is reserved to be used at any time via land. The owners must be ready to clean up the property at any time – and then they will not be informed for a long time. I have the impression that, while a rethink is taking place, a lot of porcelain has already been crushed. They beat people who really didn't have to do that, and I think they deserve a different tone of conversation. I still have a specific question to the Federal Minister. In the field of national governments it is to be heard that in the background the cubes have already fallen, namely that the Lower Austrian ÖVP has already adopted its attitude on nature conservation and that it is primarily not about nature conservation at all, but that it has actually been a matter of quickly spending the S 6. It is to be heard that, in the background, one already knows how the court’s decision will go and that there was a deal about it that the Semmering Base Tunnel should come anyway and, in exchange, the Danube University in Krems should be extended to full university. Federal Minister! Perhaps you can tell the House about these rumors and about whether this corresponds to the facts or not, before we have a debate on a question that may have already been decided behind the scenes between the yes and no-proponents. In my view, this would be a procedure which is not appropriate to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8009	I now come to the floor, Mr Dr. Lukesch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8030	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Petrovic! They give me the opportunity to say that the Greens seem to be the same as the Liberals: because they make their position on certain projects – in this case generally to the railway – dependent on where they are happening regionally. That was a lesson for me. Because the position of the Greens in Tyrol was always to describe the new Inntalbahn, which is to be built in order to achieve shift effects or relief effects in the transport sector, as "Switzerland-Kas-Projekt" (i.e. your statement or the statement of Mrs. Landesratin Lichtenberger) and thus reject a new construction line. But now you come with the great new knowledge: The Greens call for new railway lines. I agree with you that you can also assert the claim to have been failed. But in principle it is the same as the FPÖ: When I'm here, I'm talking about the project; if I'm somewhere else, I'm talking about the project; and I can do this because I don't have to bear and bear any responsibility in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: If you listen to Pröll and Klasnic, you will also ask if they belong to the same party!]] Of course, the opposition has also tried to divide the SPÖ and the ÖVP on this issue and, so to speak, to play one against the other. In particular, Mr Barmüller has tried this. It is an exaggeration if I now say that there is no paper space between us, Mr Barmüller, but the coalition partners do not differ in themselves. It is clear to the ÖVP that: The preparation and planning of the Semmering base tunnel was certainly not a "Masterpiece". This is likely to be seen in view of the long duration and the problems that have arisen. The Federal Minister has taken note of the Court of Auditors' report, but not only because he has to be taken note of. He also took note of the conclusions by saying: The resolution of all those failures which have occurred so far and which the Court of Auditors has noted has already been implemented or is already being implemented or will be implemented in the coming months. So there's not much that separates us either. The "Kurier" today quotes Mr. Federal Minister Caspar An article relating to Semmering Base Tunnel with the following statement: The tracks are "like to eat out boxers", they don't box, they're clamping. – As far as Federal Minister One. Mr Edler, you will still have the opportunity to comment on this quote – in what context it has actually been used – I cannot verify. I think the railways are right to say: What about the coaches of the ÖBB, i.e. with the Social Democratic Transport Ministers? Have they not prevented us from boxing through dubious preparation and planning of framework conditions that would make us more competitive? If you have heard a little bit, Minister of State, you know that my criticism of the ÖBB has always stated: The railways are doing a good job there, and we should enable them to get better permanently. This also includes making them competitive, also competitive on their own tractor, on the infrastructure, for example by allowing private enterprises to operate. [[Detonatative condolences with representatives of SPÖ]] This does not make you weaker, but stronger. The Federal Minister says that they are "like to eat out boxers". I'd use a different diction. To say that, I don't even trust myself in front of my clientele circle. But it is true that the framework conditions in this case have absolutely not voted, Minister of State. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We will give you the opportunity to agree!]] The ÖDP takes note of the Court of Auditors' report as an objective, objective report. She is pleased that Mr. Federal Minister will also implement both the consequences of the report and the consequences of the expert report – including this one has been used there – in order to make further progress in the examination of variants and in the assessment of economic efficiency prior to a final decision on whether to build or not. I think that these improvements in the planning are to be done with high pressure. Otherwise there is the danger that this important link to the south, the southern part of Austria thereafter, in the sense of the focus already expressed by Federal Chancellor Kreisky in 1983 on the third employment programme of the Federal Government – that is, Semmering Base Tunnel – will become only a form of an employment conjugation. But we don't want to do that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8097	Mrs Klein has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8119	Mr President. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Instead of addressing the thorough Court of Auditors report with all the necessary materiality on its own, the responsible party – this name is difficult for me in this context – was in turn only reacted with excuses and false reports. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who do you mean?]] Despite repeated urgent recommendation from the Court of Auditors, no current economic audit has been prepared. Minister One tried to present the wrong prognostic study as already present economic bill. This is a clear deception of the citizen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How can you claim to be wrong?]] There is also no EU commitment to the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, which is clear from the Court of Auditors' report. [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Oh, that's because it's on the note!]] The Austrian citizen was told again by the responsible. With regard to the capacity of the tunnel, the Court of Auditors has achieved an incredible result: The old Ghega stretch loses 150 freight trains within 24 hours. But the new tube could drive just 90 to 120 freight trains at the same time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the basic tunnel is not at all important for the relocation of freight flows. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This speech must have written to you Mr. Casey!]] The Price Waterhouse study also states that a connection to the railway network is insignificant for the creation of a new site. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where did you get this?]] The only savings the base tunnel would make would be the savings of 70 locomotive leaders and shifters that would no longer be needed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you run your company like that...!]] It was recommended by the Court of Auditors that an immediate construction stop be stopped, but not yet in line. [[Abg. Edler: This has not been written by Prinzhorn!]] The total tunnel has so far devoured 1 billion schillings, i.e. every meter costs a quarter of a million schillings. Every day, according to HL-AG, 6 meters are dug. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Therefore, one and a half billion tax silts are wasted per day. In 1996, in a request to the Minister, we pointed out the victory of the sources in the Semmering area. At that time we were assured that this threat was minimal. But what has happened since then? – In the meantime, not only the Edlach source, but also the Görig source, one of the life veins and the most important water reserve of the communities, is closed. The mountain now threatens to dry out. Water supply is therefore under acute threat not only at Semmering, but also in surrounding communities. [[Abg. Brix: That's not true, Mrs. Colleague! Please note that this is against the physical laws, even if you do not believe it!]] This negligent approach to nature is your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8279	Mr Edler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8326	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think there have been any factual arguments to date, and there have been no factual arguments in the Court of Auditors either, which would not have been expressed: We need a better southern railway, and it is currently only possible to build it on the existing southern railway with a corresponding Semmering queering with the base tunnel. There is no other position, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is actually unfortunate and an Austrian tragedy – especially the economy is required, ladies and gentlemen – that we prevent projects that are so important for our economy, for the location. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain this to me!]] This is incomprehensible to me personally. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please explain this to me now!]] Mr Schweitzer! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do we strengthen Austria's economic location?]] You're from Oberwart, you want the Oberwarter train connection. You can have it: You only have to stand up for the Oberwarter Railways. You didn't do that. – But now we want to talk to the South Railway. Ladies and gentlemen! 150 years ago, there was the same discussion when a flat run through Hungary was planned in the monarchy at that time. It was also a Steirer, Archduke Johann, who fought for the Styria, for South Austria for the connection to the metropolis. [[Abg. Oellinger: Was he also a social democrat?]] It was due to Archduke Johann that we got the connection via Semmering at the time. If it had been possible at the time – who reads it – this will be confirmed: It was already planned for a tunnel variant, it was only technically not feasible. Otherwise, we would probably never have gotten the mountain route. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! Freelor of Sina, who financed the privately and asserted himself against Rothschild, was not convinced to build the transversals, but was a follower of the flat railway. [[Abg. Oillinger: He was also a social-democratic transport politician?]] But I think it was good that the South Railway was developed as it is now. For there was a strikeway to Mürzzuschlag and a strikeway to Gloggnitz, and the mountain had separated Austria in relation to two federal states. We do not want this, ladies and gentlemen: the separation within Austria and the separation of essential economic areas and federal states. That can't be our policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We, the Socialist Group, do not wish to criticize the Court of Auditors. There is no question at all that the authority of the President should not be attacked. But it must be legitimate to ask the President from our point of view how he meant this in the evaluation: A construction stop is appropriate. The construction stop in the Court of Auditors' report was only related to the probes and not to the entire construction project. You have thus polarized, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No! It was about wasting tax money!]] This has been misunderstood in the public. Small-format newspapers have immediately "put themselves down", and it's called: The President of the Court of Auditors wants the construction stop of the Semmering Tunnel. You have not expressed that at all, but with your observation, unfortunately, you have somehow brought it to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! On political decisions: I think that it must be up to the government and Parliament to make political decisions on what transport approaches we want, where priorities need to be set, and what transport policy generally looks like. That is what the Federal Government has decided, and we have sanctioned this in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I believe, therefore, that it is also necessary from our point of view to admit that it is absolutely necessary to link up the two economic areas. It's also about the southern part of Lower Austria, it's about the Obersteiermark and the Mur-Mürz-Furche, it's about the Greater Graz area, and it's about Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen! But that party, which repeatedly says "Austria first", therefore colleague Schweitzer and others necessarily represent the Hungarian flat railway. [[Abg. Brix: This is a slogan!]] I have nothing against the fact that we are implementing joint projects, including with a view to the forthcoming enlargement of the East. But it cannot be that – we have had this calculated – some 100 billion schillings are shifted to value added. If we do not expand our southern railway, but only force the flat railway in Hungary, there will be a shift of 100 billion schilling in value added, with around 70 000 jobs. So it can't be. Please note the industry located in the Mur-Mürz-Furche, in the Greater Graz area and in Carinthia! If there is no longer any way to really join these economic areas efficiently, then it will be possible to shift to the so-called transversal over Prague, Brno, Györ down to Maribor, so Austria will be passing by! – Ladies and gentlemen! In my political functions, I have also had much to do with the economy in the dialogue. Our common knowledge must be, and we experience it again and again: Where the infrastructure and where traffic nodes are available are located, businesses are set up. This is the chance of creating jobs and maintaining jobs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore use Social Democracy for a better track, not only on the West Railway, not just on the Brenner, on the Pyrn or on the Nordbahn et cetera. Many colleagues in the Transport Committee, in the Court of Auditors, have repeatedly said: This disaster in the south of the railway, as far as the vehicle material is concerned, or in the slow way – there must be great positive changes. Now we have the opportunity to implement the better track on the south railway and thus connect our economic areas, so that people have the opportunity to reach these centres faster. As Mr Brix has already said, this is the industry. It is often about the booming car industry, which today absolutely needs large vehicles, and they are no longer to be transported over the mountain route. We must be aware of this. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, because I do not have so much time, I would like to say that the calculations of the Minister are perfectly correct. Let's calculate this: We need about 1 billion schilling a year for the mountain route. If the ÖBB is the largest rail company – and there will be others – the chance to drive 1 600 tons through the tunnel, and no longer have to move twice – I have experienced this as a railway operator myself: with train 1 000 tons to Gloggnitz, stop, share train, runways, stay half an hour, blockade of the entire route; that can't be all right, however, it will be expected! If we can drive, we will also make these savings, and the tunnel will be expected. In conclusion, Ladies and gentlemen: This tunnel is that transport structure that is ecologically best seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8460	Mr Smolle has now come to speak. – Mr Smolle is not in the room; the speech is missing. I now call Mr Stampler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8484	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Thomas Mann wrote the novel "Der Zauberberg" at the turn of the century. You could almost compare this: Semmering as a magic mountain. Thomas Mann then recommended to read his work twice in order to understand it. Also the builder of the Semmering mountain range, Karl Ritter von Ghega, did not get particularly well from the beginning. In the nobility, he was only raised when it was particularly good when it was being built with expectation and found, in a short time, 5,000, but later even 20,000 workers in employment. A look forward, a look at how it stands today: Today the Semmeringbahn is a World Heritage Site and is under the fall of the monument protection. Gerfried Sperl of the "Standard" said: So you can change the Semmering, the track itself rather not. In this way, the Court of Auditors report can be seen as highly interesting, almost as a historical document. Of course, the situation has also changed, the discussion about the Semmering base tunnel. There have been restructurings within the ÖBB, and the geographical and political conditions have changed dramatically by joining the EU and by opening the East. The Court of Auditors' report therefore does not oppose the South Railway and not the Semmering Base Tunnel. I am pleased that the President of the Court of Auditors has made it clear in the Committee that the Court of Auditors does not accept any variation: It could be the Semmering base tunnel, but it could also be another variant. What was criticised was simply delays in implementation. Five SP transport ministers have already "lived" the Semmering base tunnel: Lausecker, Lacina, Strings, Climate, Schollen. Since 1997, you, Minister One, have the honour of dealing with this issue. I am pleased that you continue to stand by your commitment and also to extend this part. I believe that unanimous decision-making will help less; it is important for me as the Steirer that the Federal Government should stand on the unanimous decisions of the government. That is crucial to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now go to the tunnel itself. Especially in the trans-European rail system, the new South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel is an important component, a connection from the east of Austria, from the east of Europe into the Italian economic area. It has also been noted by the Swiss transport specialist Professor Brändli that the development of the Semmering base tunnel is currently the only structurally mature variant. The South-East Spage is currently not feasible, and passing over Hungary would bring strong disadvantages to the economic area in the south of Austria. The criticised increase in the cost of construction is also due to the fact that safety and environmental requirements were subsequently demanded and imposed. Another word on safety: The existing mountain route could only be fully run in 1996 on 23 days. On 186 days she was partially blocked. Thus, it can be said that the security is currently given, but whether it will be given in the future remains the question. I would also like to refer to the chamber day of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce on 20 October. In November 1998, in Vienna, where vehement was called upon to speed up the expansion of the high-performance rail route in order to prevent Austria from passing through and thus strengthen Austria's economic location. Thus a clear confession to the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Something else to think about: The fact is that the Semmering track has a 400 percent higher maintenance effort compared to the ÖBB normal track and is 14 times more often due to trains. In addition, there are four times more train derailments on this route than is the case on comparison routes. Many legal procedures have been concluded, four are still open. Most of them have been completed positively. ==References====External links== On December 8, 1998, 82 percent of tunnel fans are in the south of Austria, and on the other hand, only 11 percent are in all cases against the Semmering base tunnel. Due to a rapid expansion or the use of bending trains, the journey to Graz could be made in one and a half hours, after Klagenfurt in two and a half hours. Thus, the rail would be a reasonable alternative to the motorway, to the road. This should also be in the interests of the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The realization of the new South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel is therefore a matter of European importance. The first issue here is the economic location of Austria, especially the south of Austria, which is also part of the federal territory. As Mrs Landeshuptmann Klasnic was asked to take up the interests of Styria, I would like to stress here in particular: It has caused something to go on, it has caused something to happen! We look optimistically into the future. As a steirer, I would say, Minister: Let's get the sleeves on, and we'll pack them up.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8567	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Binder. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8589	Mr President. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! A few basic things about this test report. The fact is that the Semmering route has been declared a World Heritage Site, that it will hardly make any changes to it and that according to Professor Riessberger, who has already been quoted today, only more renovations and repairs can take place and are permitted. Thus, this route across the mountain becomes a museum or nostalgia railway rather than a modern and powerful railway. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the Semmering base tunnel is only a building block of the whole South Railway project and the Court of Auditors does not question this extension of this South Railway. The third fact is that there is also a further development of the rail road. And it is also about an Austrian solution. It is clear that the statements made by the Committee of Experts and also those contained in the Court of Auditors' report are clear: Both the full development of the Semmering mountain range and the full expansion of the Aspang railway are not rejected as a target. I too believe that the proposal to build two tunnel tubes in stages is extremely uneconomic and cost-intensive, which is also confirmed by all tunnel experts. A few aspects of economics. The economic benefits of the Semmering Base Tunnel are obvious. Due to the much lower slope, 11.3 instead of 28 promills, and far larger curves, 3,000 meters instead of 180 meters, you drive much faster, you need less electricity, less locomotives, and less maintenance costs. A few comments on the delay in planning and construction. What was and what is to blame, ladies and gentlemen? – Many reasons are mentioned. The fact, however, is also clearly the position of the head of the Lower Austrian state, who wants to prevent the construction of the tunnel with all political power and not by objective reasons, among other things, in "NEWS" of the 8th century. January 1998 – under the cover of the Nature Conservation Act. [[Abg. Kampichler: It's not all that's in "NEWS"!]] Kirchturmden is recommended to prevent Austrian cross-border projects. Interesting in this context are the modest conditions for the Semmering-Schnellstraße, namely, the recultivatement of the green spaces and, secondly, the definition of the colour design for the fan building. And that was it, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, two projects through Semmering, two different political attitudes and evaluations and two different procedures of the Landesbehörde. However, both construction projects are necessary and important. Many of the Court’s recommendations have already been implemented, such as the Master Plan, such as the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. The recommendation to wait for the construction of the main tunnel to take place until the decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice is taken. Similarly, Minister has A commitment is made to investigate possible alternatives once again. Ladies and gentlemen! The demand for a stopover is not understandable in this report. It was probably a personal opinion of the President of the Court of Auditors, who gave the public the impression that the report called for the general construction stop. In this context, I quote Ernst Brandstetter in the "standard" of 28/29. November last year: "The inspectors should check whether everything is right when it comes to carrying out. The Court of Auditors must also not examine whether tax reform or family aid is useful. This is no matter what the examiners are concerned about, as is the very political definition of the main traffic axes." Ladies and gentlemen! That's it. Political decision-making and positioning is the responsibility of Parliament, that is our task. I therefore believe and am convinced that, after clarification of the open points, a final decision must be made – in the sense of a forward-looking and environmentally compatible transport policy solution, in the sense of the affected states of Styria and Carinthia, in the sense of a reasonable solution for Austria and a chance for the south railways and the people of that region.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8624	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8646	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Binder! Not churchhouse thinking, but the legitimate concern about the concerns of the affected population are the basis of the action of our country captain Erwin Pröll. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors report. [[Unrest in the hall.]] If the honourable Members have calmed down, I would particularly like to thank the Court of Auditors for examining a politically brilliant project, a very much debated one, and in no way undisputed, namely the Semmering Base Tunnel and the South Railway. Unfortunately, the result of the exam, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, has confirmed the concerns of God: There is no economic calculation, there is a lack of a federal road concept, there is no audit of the alternatives, and the financing is not secured. – My previous speakers have already received very much attention to these points. The Court of Auditors has very self-confidently represented the results in the public, thus proving competence and independence. I thank you for that. The Court of Auditors has also shown failure, and this failure is not only due to the current Minister of Transport, but also to its predecessors. It has also been discussed today. There are specific recommendations from the Court of Auditors, and these recommendations make me optimistic and I am happy. At last, it is to be seriously examined to what extent sidecars can be used. The planning of the Vienna – Sopron line should be speeded up, and the Aspang Railway should be modernised in particular – a concern that our region has been working on for a very long time. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has received these suggestions and the Court of Auditors' report has produced a creative phase. Now alternatives can be tested in peace and seria. As a Member of this region, I welcome this path because the Court of Auditors' recommendations are heading in the right direction. The modernisation of the Aspang railway and the construction of a flat railway through the Burgenland would lead to the development of those areas which have so far been treated very deeply, namely the southern Lower Austria and the Hartberg/Oberwart area. Here, ladies and gentlemen, more people than in the Mur-Mürz-Furche live, and we have the chance that the inhabitants of this region will become commuters. We would cause a shift in traffic from road to rail and thus very intensively relieve the South motorway. They know the problem on the transition route, where accidents and traffic jams are constantly occurring. That means that there would be a real improvement in this area too. These measures are highly acceptable to the population, as they increase the quality of life for people as a whole in this region and not just improve the situation of the commuters. And I am pleased that the time is now being used to become an initiative in this direction; of course, the Court of Auditors has accelerated this phase. There's a point that fills me with great concern: In the Court of Auditors, Mr Draxler said that the country that wants the mountain route via Semmering should also bear the costs. Mr Minister, I would ask you not to break the contract here. It's about the Ghega line, it's about the World Heritage Site, about which we're very, very happy, and we can't imagine the communities taking over the cost of this railway – the consequences would be extremely fatal. We cannot continue this route with student trains and tourist attractions alone. The responsibility lies here with you, and I would ask you, Mr Minister, to really appeal to the Austrian Federal Railways, that they are aware of their responsibility and not become contractual. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report has triggered a very valuable period of reflection and rethinking. Very many ideas have suddenly become hallowable and are registered as an additional possibility of solving the traffic problems that exist in the south. It was interesting that at one of the last events on the extension of the South Railway in the Industrial Association, a specialist found the following: The head of state of Lower Austria should actually be awarded the highest order of the ÖBB, because he initiated this phase of rethinking with his initiative. [[Abg. Leikam: Faschingsordn! Fascists!]] And if we now achieve better solutions for the benefit of the affected population, this is an award for our head of state. [[Abg. Marizzi: Hallelujah, Pröll!]] I am pleased and thank all those who have contributed to better solutions to the traffic problems in the south.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8720	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8741	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very grateful to the three speakers of the SPÖ Group for the clear words they have found here for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. I am therefore very grateful to them for showing solidarity with two federal states, which are actually economically disadvantaged, because we unfortunately do not have these modern, powerful transport links in the Federal Republic of Carinthia, as they are quite natural in other parts of Austria. So thank you again, dear friends, for this solidarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A dynamic economy – this is undisputed and has been clearly underlined in many discussions today – needs modern, powerful transport connections. In those areas where they are not given, there is also very little economic activity. What operation will be ready at the turn of the millennium to settle where traffic links do not even exist in time? – No one, no farm will settle there! [[Abg. Kampichler: But this also applies to Hartberg and Oberwart, Mr Colleague!]] This is a fact, Mr Kampichler, that we do not get away with. That is why the Carinthians and the Steirers have been working so intensively for many years to build this Semmering base tunnel and have no understanding that a country captain, namely the head of state of Lower Austria, with his veto, with his political power, which he apparently also has within the ÖVP, seeks to prevent this project. As a Carinthian Member of Parliament, in my speech, I must point out the situation in which our federal state is located: From the east a non-performance track leads through the needle tube Semmering; but also the route on the Styrian and Carinthian sides is not particularly modern and powerful, even this one of course needs to be expanded. Those who want to come from the north to our federal state have to pay toll, they have to pay for entry if they want to travel to the state of Carinthia. In addition, our motorways have only one tunnel, not two tubes, as they are quite natural in other parts of Austria in motorway construction. I have been surprised to hear that the Minister of Economic Affairs stated only a few days ago that a second tube for the Katschberg Tunnel and the Tauerntunnel was not in question for him, but that the additional billions that will be recovered from the sale of the Autobahnpickerl are planned for expansion plans on the West motorway. That is good and right, but once again a disadvantage of the federal state of Carinthia. If we look south, we must be very jealous to note that our neighbors are more virtuous than we are with the railway construction. In Pontebana it is fast progressing, with the expansion of the Italian railways almost beyond the national border. In Slovenia too, we are built firmly – and we are left in Carinthia and the Steirers. It's not been too long since all Carinthian parties were involved in the construction of the Semmering Tunnel. Mr. Haider, as the head of the state of Carinthia, was a vehement advocate. The Semmering base tunnel had to be built was its then foreign exchange. Hardly had he been elected as a Carinthian state captain, his interest in the Semmering base tunnel was no longer given. On the contrary: Since then, he has been fighting this tunnel through unqualified statements, through events, citizens' assemblies and much more. He thus, ladies and gentlemen, in an incredible way harms the Federal Republic of Carinthia and economic development in our federal state [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two and a half years ago, in October 1996, Wolfsberg signed a resolution which made the double game of the Freemans manifest once again. This resolution called for and supported primarily the Koralm Tunnel. But in the text of this resolution it is also very clearly contained that, in addition to the Koralm tunnel, the Semmering Base Tunnel should also be built. In addition to the heads of state of Carinthia, Styria and the national heads of state, the social-democratic responsible, this resolution has signed three very prominent freedom politicians: for Carinthia Mr. Landeshauptreiter Grasser, for the Styria Mr. Landesrat Vesko and for the City of Klagenfurt Mr. Mag. Ebner, then liberal city councillor in Klagenfurt. Here is where the obvious double play of the liberals becomes apparent: on the one hand, be against it and on the other hand be for it. [[Abg. Fuchs: Always!]] I repeat: That hurts the Carinthian economy! Such a double game is performed exclusively on the back of the Carinthian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the Austrian People's Party. I am surprised that I cannot find on the speaker list today any name of a Carinthian ÖVP member. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: They can't!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Just wait!]] In my opinion, this is a clear indication that the internal conflict in the Austrian People's Party has deepened. Not even the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Court of Auditors, Mr Wurmitzer, can speak here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] He had to let others take the lead. I consider this procedure to be simple and unbearable with regard to Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. But this is the same half-heartedness as the Carinthian head of state Christoph Zernatto. It's too little to hear when it comes to the desire to build the Semmering base tunnel. He's half-hearted about the thing, Wormitzer and Gatterer aren't there at all today. That's a fact! Another point, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, should be mentioned: The Carinthian Chamber of Commerce under President Koffler, together with the Chamber of Workers, is a vehement advocate of the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel and benefits every opportunity to request it from the Vienna offices. The representatives of the Chamber of Commerce here in Parliament, the Members of the European Parliament, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Maderthaner, stay away from this discussion: zero interest, zero support for the Carinthian concerns! [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] At the Landesfeier zum 75. The anniversary of the Carinthian referendum, Mr. Landeshuptmann Zernatto equipped the ÖVP member of the Federal Government Bartenstein with a Carinthian suit and declared that he was the liaison man and the contact man of the Federal Government to the federal state of Carinthia. [[Abg. Steibl: That's him too! A good one!]] Mr Bartenstein! Take off the Carinthian suit again! You didn't do anything for our federal state in terms of building the Semmering base tunnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Today, I can only say the following about the EIA's discussions: The Kärntner ÖVP delegates have been discharged by their clubman. They were not allowed to speak here today, and the Carinthian population and the Carinthian economy as a whole have been "preached", ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] That's a fact. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have had the experience here in Parliament once again: The country of Carinthia, the Carinthian population and the economy of Carinthia have nothing to expect from either the Freedom Party or the Austrian People's Party in the future – at least a very interesting insight that has been gained here today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8906	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8927	Mr President! Minister! Mr Leikam! This was, of course, a beautiful, polemic election speech, but it was held in the wrong place. [[Abg. Steibl: Exactly!]] [[Calls and calls to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] After Mr Leikam has taken the floor here in Parliament for Carinthia, I can assure you that Mr Wurmitzer will still speak on this subject today. [[Abg. Leikam: Wonderful!]] I have listened very carefully to the debate in the Committee on the Court of Auditors and I must say that as a citizens' country... – No, no, he has already spoken before before you joined the speaker's seat. [[Abg. Leikam: Without my back, that would not have been possible!]] I would like to start by saying a few words on the debate in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. As a citizen, I must say that the debate in the Court of Auditors, which lasted a very long time and in which many experts have come to speak, has no longer brought into the dark. I would just like to comment on three points. First area: Criticism of the Court of Auditors. To this end, I would like to say the following: I think this criticism of the Court of Auditors has been completely wrong. Whenever any group does not fit, the same criticism is being made at the Court of Auditors, and whenever everything fits in with regard to its own areas, nothing is said against the Court of Auditors. I have experienced this in the debate on remedies. I also had to take note of this during the debate on the Federal Government's procurement system. Whenever the SPÖ feels stuck, it attacks President Fierce. I believe that the suspension of the construction stop was a correct decision. The twelve points required in the Court of Auditors' report have already been partially implemented. This shows that the Court's recommendations were correct. In addition, the variant examination was also achieved. But the following - and I am already going to the second section - can be read from the Court of Auditors' report, namely the failure of the SPÖ Ministers. You really have to stress that! If you look at who was responsible in this causa, it reads like a "who's who" of the SPÖ grand, namely: Karl Lausecker, Dkfm. Ferdinand Lacina, Dr. Rudolf Strings, Mag. Viktor Klima, Dr. Rudolf Scholten and – now – Dr. Caspar Einm. One thing is common: They have not managed to prepare the decision-making bases accordingly – not yet. The federal road map is still missing. In fact, funding has only been secured through the Rail Infrastructure Act, since there was no guarantee. Not much remains of the announced private financing. So there is still a lack of a macroeconomic representation. Now to the third area, to the variant discussion: I think it is wrong – even if you stand for the Semmering Base Tunnel; there are different currents – that there is no serious discussion about the South-East span. The Minister has clearly said that he will not commission an in-depth economic analysis for the South-East-Spain project. I must say: That's a shame! In the Committee, the Minister – I quote – said: It is important not only to optimize the business economy, but also the various interests. I should like to say to this, Mr Minister: It should also take into account the interests of the Eastern Region, especially those of the Burgenland. It must not be so easy to do, because there are really many interests. The Burgenland would be interested in being connected to a high-performance railway. We have the problem in Burgenland that many workers have to travel to Vienna. They could be made into day pendulums. In addition, there is still the problem of the Burgenland having to carry out a follow-up process in the economic field. We're confronted with the east opening. We are thinking about EU enlargement. All of this has to be put into the calculation. Finally, I would like to say: I believe that, whether the Semmering base tunnel is built or not, we should not forget the Eastern region, including the Burgenland, during this whole discussion. I think it is wrong that no further research is being carried out on the "South-East-Sprange light" project. I would ask the Minister not to put this project aside, but to include it in future considerations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9001	Mr Wallner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9022	Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! After several hours of debate, I finally have to say clearly and clearly that the reason for the endless delay, i.e. to prevent the realization of the so important Semmering-Base Tunnel project, has only one name: Pröll, Pröll, Pröll and once again Pröll. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to be that way – and I don't mean it's polemic; it's really sad that the real political effect is such that the preservation of power of the ÖVP in Lower Austria is also sacrificed this important north-south connection, namely the Semmering railway tunnel. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In an approach of Caesar's wahn – that's what I'd almost call it – state captain Pröll made clear: As long as I, Erwin Pröll, am head of state in Lower Austria, there will be no Semmering tunnel. – Just recently – before the Federal Party Board meeting of the ÖVP, which recently took place – as young Steirers, whom I personally know, demonstrated for their future, for the construction of the Semmering railway tunnel. He told you that literally. [[Abg. Steibl: But this demonstration was not beautiful! Is it a favor to demonstrate with a coffin?]] – A very recent disappointment that the ÖVP offers us! Dear colleague Steibl! Why Come You don't get out of here and take the floor? It really seems to be true what Mr Leikam has said here, namely that not only the Carinthians, but also the Styrian EIA delegates, have been banned from speaking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: It testifies to characterlessness to put a coffin in front of the door!]] But if someone makes a statement, it seems as if he had been given a sedative syringe. If I were an ÖVP mandatar from Styria, I would have to explode here and express my opinion accordingly. Again: The previous prevention of the Semmering Base Tunnel is a clear problem of the ÖVP, and even the weak Federal Partyobmann Schüssel can be carried around by Landeshuptmann Pröll at the Nosenring. Last example: In an interview, the President of the Constitutional Court said literally – I quote Adamovich – that: Just as Lower Austria has solved this, it seems to have temporarily gone beyond the borders of national competence. This competence does not mean that the country may prohibit railway projects or make them virtually impossible through economically acceptable conditions. – That's what Mr Adamovich said. What reaction has there been to this? – Pröll was immediately for the re-candidacy of Schüssel, and thus Schussel is once again a pledge in the hands of Pröll, so that he can continue to prevent this tunnel from happening internally. Ladies and gentlemen! How is it going in the Styria? – I personally appreciate the woman’s head of state as a human being, but as far as the political side is concerned, I must say that unfortunately, she is again and again misrepresenting God: [[Call the ÖVP:Since when?]] Their loyalty to the Federal ÖVP is stronger than their representation of the interests of the people in Styria. Instead of going to the Federal Party Board and taking a unanimous decision for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel there like Peter Schachner, she goes to Bad Aussee to become a government clausur and wants to convince Minister One or the other SPÖ members that they are to stand for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. I'll tell you the following, and that's what you write in the main book: If the SPÖ did not exist, we would not discuss this project at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another word from the top of the Irish perspective. The expert group, which was set up, proposed a mix: Semmering base tunnel and additions. This is good for industry and the economy of Southern Austria. In the Obersteiermark it looks like the industrial companies are dressed up like on a pearl chain, and if you look at the names of these companies, you notice that this sounds like a "who's who" of the Austrian industry. Some examples: VOEST-Alpine, Böhler Uddeholm, Step-Ericson, Brigl & Bergmeister, AT & S, Veitsch-Radex, Gösser, Mayr-Melnhof and so on. But now there is the problem that we have a location disadvantage in Styria. Location disadvantage means higher transport costs and a lower chance to sell products. A small example: In Donawitz a 120 meter long track is produced, which cannot be exported via the existing mountain route, although it is actually a market leader in Europe. There's a big location disadvantage. Many people – and I really want to stress this – are therefore for the Semmering tunnel because it secures industrial jobs. This opinion is consistent with 68 percent of the Steirers, 49 percent of the Lower Austrians and 52 percent of the Austrians as a whole. Finally, I would like to say: I call for the 1996 Council decision to be implemented in the near future for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, and I am against the fact that we continue to finance the political confusion of a head of state with billions of effort, and I hope that we will not disappoint the hopes of thousands of people for better transport links. We Steirer, we South Austria finally want to break through the natural barrier of Semmering and connect the northeast of our country with the south of Austria. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9105	The President of the Court of Auditors has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9126	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The Court of Auditors has been given a mandate to examine a project in connection with one of the most important railway projects of the present day, namely the extension of the rail link towards the south. I think that all the speakers who have spoken here today agree with me when I say that the need for such an extension is out of question. In this respect, I think I can see a consensus. I am also of the opinion that it is not a question of the concern of the Federal Government, the National Council and also the Court of Auditors that there should be a shift from road to rail. From this basic consensus, I think we should also look at our report. In the course of its audit, the Court of Auditors has found that there has been a lack of developments in the past, both in planning and in implementation, and that there has also been a failure. I do not want to go into detail; the details are very clear and clear in the Court of Auditors' report. However, there was also something else that the Court of Auditors noted: that the framework conditions did not necessarily change in relation to the time when planning for the construction of a high-performance route to the south began for the first time. In this context, it should only be mentioned, for example, that the forecast traffic developments have not been realized in the way it was originally assumed that the forecasts had to be revised at least in part. In addition, a completely new moment was added, namely the EU accession application of our eastern neighbours Hungary and Slovenia and, in addition, the planned construction of the so-called Corridor V, a connection from Helsinki via Budapest to Marburg and Trieste, in the immediate east of Austria. The decision-making bases for a particular race choice have not changed significantly, or are missing or insufficiently present, either by the errors and failures recorded in the Court of Auditors' report or by the changes in the framework conditions. The Court of Auditors also gave a very detailed opinion on this. I would just like to say a few examples: the question of economic efficiency which the Court of Auditors does not seem to be sufficiently solved in terms of economics or in terms of business, the question of the cost framework, which is neither open nor open, and the question of financing mode. On the other hand, I should like to point out that it is not only a question of referring to the legal provisions which regulate what this construction can be financed, but also, of course, of how the numerical material is designed in concrete terms and how the financing concept also looks. In this context, I should like to remind you that until a very short time ago it was seriously considered to prefer a private-public partnership model in connection with the construction of the Semmering base tunnel. This model seems to have been removed, but there is no remaining clarity in this regard. In view of the lack of the basis for the decision, the Court of Auditors has concluded that it is in question whether the Semmering base tunnel is the most appropriate solution for the extension of the South Railway. It therefore recommended in its report the lack of the basis for its decision and recommended that it should now be possible to re-establish these basis of decision in order to be able to make a secure decision. It is very remarkable that, regardless of the Court of Auditors, an independent group of experts has also been set up by the Federal Ministry of Transport, whose results are covered by the basic findings of the Court of Auditors. The group of experts, in its report, which was returned a few months ago, will carry out literally – I quote – the following: "It takes into account the serious changes to the existing framework conditions." In other words, the expert group, like the Court of Auditors, considers that it is necessary to take into account the changed framework conditions in relation to the final decision-making process. In this context, the group of experts also cites the planned accession of the reform states to the European Union and the change in traffic forecasts. Finally, the expert group recommends to the Federal Ministry that a variant examination be carried out. Variants include the expert group both alternatives and supplements. Overall, the expert group lists eight variants in its report, including the sifting track, the Semmering Base Tunnel itself, the Aspang Railway, the Hungarian Flat Railway, the South East spange with a modified route guide, which is different from the 1991 feasibility study variant, the so-called South East Spange light, and finally also combinations of all these variants. The expert group sees as not a target group the full expansion of the skewer track and the full expansion of the aspang railway. The Court of Auditors shares the view that a full extension of the mountain range, i.e. the sifting of Semmering, and the Aspangbahn cannot be regarded as very realistic. But I would like to stress: It is the full extension of these two routes, i.e. the extension to high-performance lines. In spite of this, it would be a good idea to examine to what extent a rehabilitated skeletal track and a partially developed aspang railway cannot be quite targeted variants. In this respect, the Court of Auditors does not object to the results of the expert group. Finally, the group of experts calls for the extension examination to be carried out over the next two years and has made a certain clarification in this regard in the Committee on the Court of Auditors by considering these two years as a maximum period. In addition, the group of experts has also provided for very specific criteria to be taken into account in this investigation. This is the technical feasibility, these are the costs, these are the planning and construction time, these are the capacities for freight transport, and that is the competitiveness of passenger and freight transport compared to the road. The Court of Auditors also endorses this expert group criteria catalogue. The Court of Auditors has included the results of the expert group in its report and has also delivered an opinion on this. It recommended that the variant examination recommended by the expert group be carried out as soon as possible. In this context, the Court of Auditors' report is literally as follows: "The Court of Auditors saw itself through the statements of the expert group, particularly in its demand for clarification, which line management is to take the future South Railway. He strongly recommended that the investigations initiated by the expert group should also be conducted separately from the open procedures or legal questions in the tunnel object." As a further recommendation, the Court of Auditors concluded that an attack on the main tunnel is expected. This is the building stop mentioned by me and so much quoted. It also makes sense from the recommendations of the expert group and the Court of Auditors. In fact, it would not be reasonable to start a construction of the main tunnel independently and separately from the investigations initiated by the expert group, or if a further advance of the probe would continue. It is the logical and factual consequence of the recommendations of the expert group and the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in such a way that they can only be seen as an objective recommendation and in no way a political influence by the Court of Auditors. For this does not prejudice with regard to the final decision. It is only about the fact that the variant examination can only be useful if the result of this investigation is expected and the actual tunnel construction – should be positive – is only started afterwards and not at a time when the variant examination is not completed. I can only remind you in this connection that the then Minister of Transport and today's German Chancellor climate, when he commissioned a study at the Swiss company, has also been able to do a construction stop until the present study. This is also quite clear, because the then Minister of Climates wanted to have clarity about the conditions given by the study, and it would not have been advisable at that time to start further work before the study. That is why a construction stop was also pronounced by Minister Klima at the time. In summary, the Court of Auditors therefore considers that no definitive statements on the route of the South Railway and on the details of the extension of the South Railway are yet to be made. In this direction, the Court of Auditors' recommendations also go in its conclusions, and I think it is extremely positive that the Federal Minister has taken up these recommendations from the Court of Auditors and, consequently, in the final consequence, also the suggestions of the expert group and commissioned a variant examination. This will take into account a recommendation from the Court of Auditors in a very short time. Furthermore, the construction of the main stollen is expected to take so long until the variant examination is carried out. This also confirmed the construction stop recommended by the Court of Auditors by the Minister. I regard this as the success of the Court of Auditors, and I also see in it the similarity I have already stressed several times in the further procedure between the Ministry and the Court of Auditors. What does the Court of Auditors expect from the examination of variants? First of all, the Court of Auditors believes that the two-year maximum period set by the experts should be substantially lowered. I am of the opinion of the Minister that at the end of a year it is likely that the results will be achieved. Secondly, the Court of Auditors expects – this expectation is shared by others too – that, in the context of the variant examination, all the variants considered by the expert group are actually examined as a target. Among the most targeted variants, the group of experts has also counted the South-East span, but not in the course of the feasibility study of 1991 – including coverage equality with the Court of Auditors – but very probably in a new route tour. The expert group's report is also very detailed about this new South-East span and in this context it is also recommended to the Ministry that this variant should be taken into account. Thirdly, the Court of Auditors expects, of course, that the Semmering base tunnel must also be compared in this variant investigation, because I do not think it would be a goal to involve only all the variants which do not directly affect the Semmering base tunnel or which are just an additive to it. I should like to remind you that the expert group has also mentioned the Semmering Base Tunnel as one of the variants in its report which it is to be examined. I hope, fourthly, that in the context of the variant examination, the criteria laid down by the expert group in its report will be applied and that those general economic considerations which the Court of Auditors currently considers to be insufficient. This aspect should also be taken into account when complying with the criteria set out in the expert group report. If these conditions are met, then there are the best conditions for a decision that can enable optimal route selection – an optimal route selection for a high-performance North-South connection, as required by all of us here in the course of the discussion. The Court of Auditors has in this whole procedure, in which it is not bound in so far as it does not have the power to decide and in which it has only been involved, because it has been given a mandate to examine it, to contribute to the achievement of the best solution for the extension of the South Railway. And in doing so, he has prepared a report that was not repaid for anyone, not for anything, not for someone, not for anything, but for someone who is objectively designed. In its report, the Court of Auditors did not represent regional and non-particular interests, but only the interests of taxpayers, citizens, both south and north of Semmering.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Gaßner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9279	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It has already been said very, very much about the topic of Semmeringtunnel. I should like to point out once again where, I believe, one should start seriously, namely with the traffic forecasts. That too has been said today. Cross-border freight transport is growing steadily, and rail market share is falling steadily over the same period. Now, the ÖBB has presented a medium-term investment plan with a total of 170 billion schilling, spread across the whole federal territory. It is interesting to note that 40.5 billion Schilling is the only one for Lower Austria, the greatest benefit of this investment programme. The Semmering Base Tunnel, about which it is here today, accounts for only 6 percent of this total investment. The extension of this Semmering tunnel or a strong north-south axis is, however, an essential prerequisite for the economic locations north and south of Semmering. And that is why the fastest realization of such a powerful and competitive North-South connection with this Semmering tunnel is necessary. The story has also been carefully illuminated, starting with the 1989 ASFINAG-Novelle, through the Coalition Agreement, through the EU guidelines, to the transport concepts of the countries already adopted in 1991. Carinthia has already been mentioned, Styria, no question, but also the concept of Lower Austria provided the Semmering Base Tunnel in 1991. In Lower Austria, however, this was changed in 1996, because there is no longer this tunnel, and I say that Lower Austria has also made a very significant contribution to the criticism of the increase in the cost of the Court of Auditors' report in this area. Some examples of this: The country of Lower Austria has forced the HL-AG to change its approach, and it has forced the construction of a probe. These measures alone have led to an extension of the construction time to the double, not to mention the approval procedures. In 1994 it was requested for the first time, in 1998 there was the first nature conservation notice, a negative one, as we all know, and all of this from the point of view that each year the construction price index will cost 240 million Schilling more alone, not to mention that any delay will also lead to higher restructuring costs of the mountain route. The additional costs, due to the water collapse in the sink could have been avoided or at least reduced, the country of Lower Austria would not have crossed and would have enabled it to expand from Lower Austria rather than from the opposite side. The question here arises, ladies and gentlemen, what are the interests of Lower Austria actually being hurt by the construction of this tunnel and, if such injuries actually exist, in what proportion to the damage caused by Lower Austria these interests are or who is actually responsible for this damage. A word about the prognostic study, which was strongly criticized by the Court of Auditors and said that it did not support economics. – My observation on this: I am not aware that a comparable economic study would have been carried out in the Semmering-Straße Tunnel. And one last thing about this comparison Semmering street tunnel and Semmering railway tunnel: There is an investigation by the Austrian Transport Club, which clearly states: The tunnel costs per net tonne and passenger kilometres amount to 67 bulkes at the train and exactly the double, 1.33 s, by the road tunnel. If, as the Minister said, we were also going to become road pricing for trucks, then the rail mode would be asked in a sudden manner, and a long-term rail infrastructure would be secured. It wouldn't be a question anymore: Semmering base tunnel yes or no?, but the answer would be clear: Semmering base tunnel – yes and immediately!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9328	Mr Sigl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9349	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's been said a lot today. The South Railway is crucial for Austria and Europe. This is documented only by the inclusion of this route in the trans-European networks. Our aim must be to establish a modern high-performance line, which connects not only the second largest city in Austria, but all industrial areas in the south of Austria. All the more strange for me as Lower Austrians are the statements of our lord, Dr. Erwin Pröll, to the Semmering Base Tunnel. I'm just wondering if he's aware of what he's doing with his policy! If prevention politicians such as Pröll had determined transport policy in Austria for the last decades, Austria and thus the Austrian Federal Railways would have long since been degraded to the "long distance" in Europe. We can already have extensive innovations at the electrification of the Austrian Federal Railways in the fifties by a far-sighted Federal Transport Minister Dipl.-Ing. Waldbrunner, who has opposed the resistance of the "coal barons", who have opposed this lobbyism and thus allowed the Austrian Federal Railways to present themselves as a new innovative railway. I also believe that much of the criticism of the Court of Auditors' special report on the Semmering base tunnel has been addressed to the wrong places. The criticism of the increase in costs is mainly due to the head of state in Lower Austria. If the current tactic of road users were to be turned to road transport policy, this would be a policy that would develop a high-level, high-performance road network for modern trucks, but at a non-insignificant location of the motorway almost interrupted by a wooden bridge this important route, thus devaluing all investments around it, because one could only cross this bridge at the lowest speed and half freight. High house! In my opinion, the alleged resistance to the Semmering base tunnel signals nothing but the irrational desire to have the Austrian railway industry turned into a museum facility. What is of course and welcome in the public road sector, namely high performance, is to be consistently denied the rail. We Social Democrats will know this to prevent. That is why we continue to support the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel and take note of the Court of Auditors' report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9396	Mr Herzegovina has also been mentioned. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9417	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. It is already very beneficial for a representative from Lower Austria to take up the floor as a previous speaker and thus make a firm commitment to the construction of the tunnel. I thank colleague Robert Sigl. This is a clear demonstration of the closeness of the SPÖ on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will make some critical comments on this report. I do not share the view of you, Mr Kukacka, that reports by the Court of Auditors are sakrosanct, that the Court of Auditors is infallible and that it should not be discussed. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Eh not!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No one said that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't say that!]] Then it's good, Mr. Klubobmann Khol. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The same standards should apply to the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Defence.]] That's true, too. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But we have never seen that before! There has never been a word of criticism!]] Mr Kukacka! This is true, of course. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We have never heard this when it came to the Minister of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Defence!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one cannot discuss reports, I wonder what we have been discussing here since 10.30 a.m. My opinion is and remains: Before taking note of or not taking note of a report of the Court of Auditors in the National Council, a discussion has to be held. I very much hope that this view is a majority. Ladies and gentlemen! The current report of the Court of Auditors is not as wrong as the report on the Styrian Plabusch Tunnel. This tunnel is extremely important for traffic in the Greater Graz area, and as you all know, the construction of the second tube will begin in 1999. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Do you have an older example? Maybe one of the fifties? For this is from the 1970s!]] Let us not put these facts under the carpet, Mr Kukacka, because at that time the Court of Auditors also hit the side of the tunnel opponents – and he was wrong! I quote from the "Little Newspaper" of 28. November 1998: "No matter how much a Court of Auditors can go astray, a look back into Styrian traffic history. In the bitter dispute over the Plabüsch Tunnel, the Court of Auditors soon took a party 15 years ago for the opponents and lamentably noted that an uprising is not crossed, but the length after. Now, for the then unnecessarily classified Plabusch tunnel, the construction of the second tube is being prepared." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! In this report, the Court of Auditors said that, although there were undisputed traffic forecasts that this tunnel construction would not lead to a discharge, it was nevertheless enforced by the then Minister. But exactly the opposite has occurred! The Court of Auditors has been wrong. The Court of Auditors' report on the Semmering base tunnel is not so wrong, but errors, shortcomings and failures are to be found, ladies and gentlemen, from the front to the back. About the beginning of page A: The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs should be responsible for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel? – This is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Transport is responsible. Or: On page 55, the times when Mr. Lacina and Mr. Streicher were head of the Transport Region, from September 1984 to January 1985 and from January 1985 to April 1992. – This is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me give you the figures and dates of Parliament. Or: The report calls into question the financing of the tunnel. I quote an expert here, Director General Dipl.-Ing. Writer: "The Semmering Base Tunnel must be financed by the Rail Infrastructure Finance GmbH in accordance with § 8 of the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. Therefore, the financing of this project, completely independent of the private-public partnership model, which expired in 1998, is guaranteed" – the funding is guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen! – "and included in all financing plans of the rail infrastructure financing GmbH." Mr Steindl is not an expert, but he also meant that the funding is secured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some things are missing in the report. I am missing a paragraph on public administration, which deals with Lower Austria. Wasn't there a nature conservation law "congested"? Did not arbitrary officials immediately adopt the desired policy decision? What about the road tunnel? Were the Lower Austrian Land Authorities so ecologically concerned? Shouldn't the Court of Auditors have been investigating here? Should not the Court of Auditors have considered how to overcome the egoism of a federal country, for example by means of federal legislation? A few things are missing, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been too much, namely the political values of President Fiedler, who has called for a stop to construction. It was not, as the President of the Committee wanted to weaken, a recommendation or, as he said today, an objective recommendation, no, no, ladies and gentlemen, it was a requirement, for example, to read it in the magazine "NEWS". And the demand for a construction stop is not a political appreciation – in a heated media climate, ladies and gentlemen, where "pile tube" and "billion-end-aster" are polished? On the same day, the President of the Court of Auditors will sit down and say: I'm asking for a construction stop! – This is not a political action, ladies and gentlemen? That's an objective recommendation? – You are not so naive, Mr President Fierce. The summit of "presumptuousness" – in order to call it so – is then a statement in the APA, in which it reads: "Although the Court of Auditors is active in the political field, it should not be allowed to make a political assessment", said Förder. - I think that's incredible! I think that's incredible! Ladies and gentlemen! Accompaniment music to the report has mistones. The report is not as capitally wrong as that of the Plabusch tunnel tube, but there is no cause for infallibility. In principle, ladies and gentlemen: Court of Auditors reports are not sakrosanct, and the President is not infallible! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now conclude. If there is a danger in Austria that cantönligeist will prevail if, in Austria, a head of state is not ashamed of a European dimension rail project if, in Austria, a government party, the ÖVP, does not even address such a burning issue in a clause of the head of the party – that is really a fatal reminder of recent Bishop Conferences – then, ladies and gentlemen, the time is ripe for a Constitutional Infrastructure Act. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I don't know! You have no idea of the procedure!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is why we all have the duty and the right to clear the way for a Constitutional Infrastructure Act, for a modern, forward-looking transport policy, for a shift of traffic from road to rail, for the Semmering Base Tunnel! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9575	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9597	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Gospod predsednik računskega sodišča! Mr President. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I think that at the beginning there is a need for a clear word. The Court of Auditors and its President are certainly not infallible, but they are just right in this report. The reminders to be found on page 43 are all right. They're just right, they're right. But these are actually self-evident. I do not want to downgrade your work, Mr President, but these are actually self-evident things that every small house builder has to follow. He too must first break his head over what it will cost, he must first break his head over it: Do I need a house, and where do you want it to stand? – These are things that are of course. May I say quite clearly... – You're still coming, my dear friends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] I have prepared a motion for a resolution. Perhaps I will start with the motion for a resolution to help calm down. The motion for a resolution is therefore tabled by me because in the Committee's deliberations I have to say that the two ministers are ruling side by side, but no Farnleitner knows what one wants, nor does anyone know exactly what Farnleitner wants. But one thing is certain: The two ministers do not want the same thing, although they belong to the same federal government. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is really terrifying that we have a debate here in an area, namely the question of where the train from Gloggnitz should continue, without having an overall concept. We do not know exactly what the neighbouring countries want, we do not know what the individual federal states want, we only know: We want a hole through the mountain! That's the only thing the SPÖ always says: Let's do the hole first! Then we'll take a look at: Where does the traffic come from? How much will that be? Where do you want him to go? [[Abg. You know that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is, as it were, the attempt of rape, a political rape: If we've already invested 15 billion schilling in something, we'll get a couple more billion! It's not clear what's going to happen in the future. We know we need a number of bypasses of the Styrian cities, the Styrian places, we need a solution for the Neumarkter saddle, we need a solution for the area Wörther See. [[Abg. We need the Semmering Tunnel!]] And whoever says A in this sense, he must also say B, C and D. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, it will be kept silent that such a project naturally results in consequences. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] You'll pass these episodes. That means you don't even give in pure wine, but you mix the wine with water, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is necessary to say clearly to the citizen: These are our transport concepts. That's how we want to realize it, so we proceed. That's what the citizen understands. [[Abg. Edler: We want the Semmering tunnel!]] He then says yes and is also willing to pay taxes for it. But he's not ready to just say yes when it says: Let's make the hole, and everything else will turn out somehow! [[Abg. Edler: Make a better plan!]] I believe that the finding that a common road and rail road plan agreed on must be available before decisions can be made is correct. We believe, as I agree with the Court of Auditors quite clearly, that there are economic interests to be defined, we believe that alternatives in exactly the same intensity need to be discussed here as the construction of the Semmering base tunnel, ladies and gentlemen, and we naturally believe that the total cost, i.e. the cost of spending on capital and the annual interest rates, must be clearly identified before such a large project is undertaken. We believe that an economic review must take place, we believe that it is still necessary to assess the actual development of transport flows, and, above all, we believe that, in the case of such a large concept, it is urgently necessary to establish a consensus with the neighbouring countries. For these are European transport routes, here we realize a European road network through Austria, and it is natural that our neighbouring countries which are directly affected should be involved, ladies and gentlemen. But that's not the whole thing. That is why we are so unwell about the question: Semmering base tunnel – yes or no? That's not the question. The question is: Where will traffic flows flow? How much will that be? How much tonage will there be? How much passenger transport? Who is that supposed to serve? Are you really so sure, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you will save the Obersteiermark in this way? With a hole through the Semmering? Is this really the solution if we do not think about where this road should lead? [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] They are just as uncertain. They say: Let's make a fait accompli! This costs taxpayers 15 billion schilling, and everything else will turn out. But this is not a policy, it is ultimately a misuse of the taxpayers' money, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edler: You haven't been concerned at all, colleague Smolle!]] In this sense, the Liberals support the Court of Auditors and specifically support this report. However, we have also tabled a motion for a resolution. Hic Rhodes, hic salta, ladies and gentlemen, also you from the ÖVP! Let us take part in this motion for a resolution so that we can achieve a good common road and rail plan. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You've said something else before!]] There are two ministers and unfortunately God's still far-reaching opinions, but what I heard today – including from colleague Kukacka – is affecting me. Kukacka says the SPÖ is guilty, then the SPÖ-Redners come here to the pult and say the ÖVP is guilty. Ladies and gentlemen! The citizen does not wish for that. The citizen wants solutions, especially from this Federal Government, even if you have already been elected, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9754	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported and is under negotiation. Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9778	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Federal Minister! As one of the last speakers, who was able to follow the debate fully, I have of course the opportunity to draw a few summaries. One thing is certain: With its report, the Court of Auditors has made a tremendous contribution to making the debate easier, and I do not want to thank the Court of Auditors, its President and all its staff for this enormous work. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] Thank you very much also to the ladies and gentlemen of the Stenographenbureau, who have completed and sent us a record of more than 70 pages since Friday evening. Thank you very much too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Herzegovina! The Court of Auditors' reports are also not sacrosanct for the EIA. A report on the Court of Auditors is also human work, and errors are possible. But one thing I ask of you: If you find that the Court of Auditors has been wrong, I ask you to put the evidence on the table. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: I have provided proof!]] Your proof that the construction of the Plabusch tunnel is striking for the realization of an economic solution is by no means sufficient. You can build five tunnels, and everyone can be uneconomic. The proof that the Plabusch Tunnel is the most economical solution you owe us. I say to you, even your statement, that arbitrary officials have issued a decision, is not true. There is a real need to protect the officials here. I also have to question your findings on the construction stop. You have claimed here that the President of the Court of Auditors' request to have a stop would have been a political action. I ask you: What would a President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors have done if he found that there were no important grounds for making a decision? – He could not say anything but that there is currently no time for the construction. And the logical consequence of this is a construction stop. I am grateful for the fact that this Court of Auditors report has brought a number of dreams to an end in this House, especially the dreaming and double play of the Freedom Party. You have repeatedly told us here in Parliament in Vienna that the South-East Spange is a feasible alternative. I'm just giving you some data: The Court of Auditors report shows that 24 tunnels with a total length of 66 kilometres are necessary for the South-East span. If you think that's better than ten or 20 kilometers under the Semmering, then you're really wrong. You must also note that there are more differences in altitude for the South-East span than for the Semmering. They must also take into account the need to rebuild 201 kilometres of track and that the time target for this is 30 years. – We don't want to wait that long! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Her double game was exposed today. In Carinthia, resolutions are signed for the construction of the Koralm Tunnel and the Semmering Tunnel, but here in Vienna you formulate urgent requests against it, as well as two years ago, when your speakers Rosenstingl and Mentil were still massively opposed. – Today these speakers are no longer available to you, but their "seriosity" has become apparent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Habsburg is available for this!]] I would also ask, of course, where the candidate for the office of the head of state of the Federal Republic of Carinthia is being debated today when such important questions as the Semmering Tunnel are debated. Where's the Lord's captain's candidate? Is that a question for him that doesn't interest him any more? Is it important that he wanders around in Carinthia and confronts the people with untruth? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The untruth you have leased! In this you are a specialist, you personally!]] However, I can also address some open words to our government partners, especially the Minister for Transport. The dream of the Minister of Transport that one can build without having the right data on the part of the ÖBB has disintegrated. The dreaming of a corresponding railway network in Austria without a road map has also disintegrated, and the dreaming that one can come to a suitable solution without corresponding variant comparisons has fled. In any event, I hope that this Court of Auditors report will cause the meagre years to end for the southern railway in Austria. The South Railway is the stepchild of the ÖBB! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wallner: That's it! Yes, I do!]] I say this to you and at the same time explain: We Carinthia will no longer take that condition! The South Railway is not in any way competitive, nor is it about passenger traffic. For example, I would like to travel by train, but I am not willing to spend five hours on the train from Klagenfurt to Vienna and drive through the area at an average speed of 60 km/h in 2000. - That's one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Schwemlein, Mr Sigl and Mr Wallner.]] The second problem is the equipment. I am also not willing to get into the oldest wagons available and to give up any rail comfort that is modern today. The same applies to freight transport. It is no longer possible to compete with a maximum tonnage of 600 tonnes per train. This is the maximum tonnage allowed on the skewer line of the Semmering. We must also be aware that the maintenance costs of the Semmering skeletal line amount to the sevenfold of those of a normal course in Austria. We should not afford this luxury in the future. It is also not possible to handle the rolling land road on the Semmering section. Of course, I could continue the series of these arguments. For example, I could list the investments. I asked the Minister of State at the debate in the Committee: How much has the ÖBB invested in the railway network since 1990? – The answer was: in the West Railway 7 billion Schilling and in the South Railway almost zero. I would like to give you another example. You bought coffee machines for the equipment of the vans, a total of 32 pieces: 30 pieces for the West Railway and 2 pieces for the South Railway. – This number says everything! This is a condition that the Carinthians and the Steirers no longer want to offer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our federal state has a right to a HL connection to the European network. We also do not want to agree on this right to the city of Eisenstadt, but rather to support it in its efforts. The Italians have now shown us how to build railway lines. The route between Udine and Tarvis is complete – despite 60 kilometres of length, of which 40 kilometers of tunnel track, despite tectonic difficulties, despite water collapses and so on. They've managed everything because they wanted it! – I think it’s high time Austria wanted to.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9924	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Chief. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9951	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on the Court of Auditors' report was very controversial. As a Member of this House, we must, in the run-up to the debate and in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, break our heads on a number of basic things, as I believe. First point. Mr. Herb, your attitude, which you have repeatedly formulated in the media and which you have presented in a weakened form again here today, namely that you no longer want to wait for the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, but simply to undermine the separation of violence in the Republic – with a request from Kostelka/Kräuter until the 20th century. January – is simply unbearable for a learned lawyer in view of the known separation of violence in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not need to be surprised at the fact that, from your mouth, the criticism of the Court of Auditors' report and the lack of knowledge of a report commissioned by Parliament on the initiative of the liberals is still being formulated. In such a legal view of the Constitution of the Republic of Austria, Mr Colleague Herbs, the latter is no longer surprising! In my view, I would like to say clearly: I would rather have liked to see in the Court of Auditors' report some of the points that would have gone beyond the actual audit order the different attitudes in nature conservation procedures, for example in the West Railway, where EIAs are required, in the Semmering Base Tunnel and in the Semmering Tunnel, because then my unanswered questions in the Court of Auditors might have been understandable to me, so that I would not have to put them back in plenary today. Two things have to be clearly said by our Carinthian liberties to colleagues Leikam and Wurmitzer. In 1988/89 we made a clear statement for the Koralm Tunnel and for a corresponding economic variant of the connection of the southern states of Austria to the Vienna Central Area and to the new Danube waterway. – I emphasize: for an economic connection. The Federal Government has been sparse for more than ten years! For more than ten years, the Federal Government has been sparse to present us with an economic concept to the fullest extent. The Federal Government is eager to provide us with a corresponding approach for the integration of road, air traffic, shipping on the Danube and railway. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! Not those who demand this endanger the Austrian Federal Railways and the jobs there, but those who delay these construction projects, who do not provide the appropriate foundations, and then, as we have experienced in the context of the prognostic study from Switzerland, with a political intention and a political mandate, exclude certain necessary additional and alternative considerations from the outset and, as a result, put on the agenda already as a finished political will! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From the point of view of Kärntner, I would like to say clearly and clearly: In order to improve acceptance in the Austrian population for the federal railways, we have always called for accompanying measures where they prove to be the best and most economical for the entire Austrian economic area, whether Semmering Base Tunnel, Aspang Railway, East variant or Corridor V. We have called for improvements in infrastructure in those areas which are needed for these variants, such as improving infrastructure in the security field, rationalising railway transitions and thus speeding up and implementing noise protection measures in such a way as to achieve the appropriate acceptance. The government decisions and the agreements with the Federal Government are on the table, but little has happened. I would add that the noise protection measures are unfortunately not eligible for funding for many municipalities, as much as the municipalities wanted to implement them, because the 20 % or 30 % of the municipalities are simply too high. The appropriate conditions are simply not provided under the Maastricht criteria and the difficulty of providing the financial base immediately. My own community, the municipality of Spittal an der Drau an der Tauernbahn, is an example of this. The cost of all noise protection measures in our area – 35 years after the expansion of the Tauernbahn – would be approximately 27 million schilling. Planning costs – including appropriate construction measures – would amount to 30 percent for the municipality of Spittal; You can calculate the sum. We do not have that much in a freely available budget framework of currently 2 million schillings, among other things because we have built a vocational college in the appropriate form. I believe that if it is possible for the city of Klagenfurt and other areas to grant these measures with a 20 percent own-financing share, then it would also be useful and good, even in those areas where the existing sections of the route are in any case used according to the new concept, to enable a correspondingly cheaper and cheaper financing measure. I would also like to point out, in this context, the resolution of the construction union, which is now, at the time of high unemployment, calling for the continuation of employment-intensive measures in particular. Mr Wurmitzer and Mr Herb's colleague "forget" so much that apart from the Semmering Base Tunnel, of course, even if the Mur-Mürz-Furche cut off well in the economic comparison, appropriate infrastructure investments and security measures in the run-up and follow-up will definitely be necessary. These would be more employment-intensive than the tunnel project, which is only machine-intensive! – All of this is not taken into account. As a representative of the liberals, I do not let myself go about a missing policy of the Federal Government, but I would like to say clearly and clearly: The Austrian Federal Railways and the connection of the south of Austria under equivalent conditions are at risk to those who still believe that they have to speak in accordance with the systems of the last decade of the Austrian population of uneconomic programs!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10062	The one from Mr Mag. Mag. The main text of the motion for a resolution has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word from the rapporteur was not required. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places. We now come to the vote on the request from the Court of Auditors to take note of the Court of Auditors' special report on the Semmering-Base Tunnel railway project in III-155 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Schweitzer and comrades concerning Semmering base tunnel. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades on the establishment of the Austrian Federal Roadmap. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are still voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Main and comrades on labour market effectiveness of public investment. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. 2. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 986/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll and comrades on a federal law on the acquisition of a guarantee for a liability to the Bank for International Payments (BIZ) by the Austrian National Bank (1575 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10158	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Firlinger has been reported at word level. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10185	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The proposal for an initiative on which we are now holding a debate includes the Austrian contribution to the aid package for dealing with the Brazilian economic and financial crisis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days, they have learned about the media that there has been no solution to the problem within the Brazilian governments, so there are no really tangible proposals to deal with the flight of capital, the departure of the funds from Brazil. The Brazilian government was therefore forced to significantly devalue the real, the Brazilian currency, and since then has been "floating" this currency, the currency of the sixth largest economy in the world. However, there is a lot of legitimate doubts about the sustainability of financial assistance from Western Europe and the United States in the context of this aid programme. Ladies and gentlemen! The American Congress decided and blessed the aid programme for Brazil in November. This is, of course, the largest contribution, the largest share of the aid package. This is also understandable, because the Americans in South America are naturally pursuing elementary interests, both in terms of private investors and in terms of American banks and, last but not least, in terms of the participation landscape in Brazil. From this point of view, of course, it is understandable that America has great interest in intervening there. However, the framework conditions under which this Brazil aid is granted are somewhat questionable or unclear. Brazil has been able to see a apparent increase in its economic power for many years, but this rise, this development was a sign of development. There have been many investors who have been blinded by it. The values, the titles that were invested there, have all increased rapidly, but in the end the whole has developed into a soap bubble in the truest sense of the word, and this soap bubble is now burst. At the time when it was found that the US government was pumping in considerable resources there, it could have been expected that the flight of capital from Brazil would cease. This has not happened, but the pressure on the currency has increased, and what has come out has been seen. Therefore, in Europe, renowned experts – including the President of the Deutsche Bundesbank Zeitmeyer – question whether this package really makes sense and whether it is really appropriate to solve the problems. I personally believe – and I am not alone with this faith in God – that it will crush, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is going to be ineffectively pumped up and that good money is thereby paid to the bad. And it should not happen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is an amount of $50 million, which is initially only given in the form of a guarantee, but this guarantee will certainly be used. 600 million schillings are not a small thing, Mr Federal Minister, even though I am quite admitting that there are other countries within the framework of the European Union who have to shoot or believe much more. However, I believe that the role you have played as ECOFIN President in this matter was to be desired. If you had taken your job seriously there, Mr Federal Minister, then you would have had to get on the brake in this European union, but you did not. Federal Minister! I would have expected you to: There you will show more courage and take more action! For example, if the Americans in a relief program somewhere in the world have doubts that such a package of aid is taking place, then the Americans will simply not take part in it. We in Europe must say that we have the moral obligation and so on, but in reality that is without any basis. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for an initiative tabled by my colleagues leaves Parliament with no doubt as to what is going on with these resources. – First point of criticism. Second point – most importantly –: The Brazilian government has only decided on a half-hearted accompanying programme. Third point: The participation of private investors is not foreseen. – It is always the same: The profits will be made individually in times of supposed upswing, but if it is powerful, then the losses will be socialized. That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen! Fourth point: As far as this loan is concerned, for example, there is no security with Brazil's natural resources, the credit that the Bank is dealing with for international settlement. Fifth point – and I have already mentioned this – is: I think, Minister of State, that the European Union has given way to the pressure of the U.S. federal government quite easily, and I think that is a pity. We've gotten over, I mean. There would have been enough reasons to argue otherwise. The situation in Brazil has now calmed down a little, but not because there is this European aid programme, ladies and gentlemen, but because, after a long time, the government in Brazil has no longer committed itself to the dollar, but has released the currency; it has been "floating" since then. Therefore, a little relaxation has occurred, but – again – not because of this aid programme. Summary: I believe that this aid package will not really help. One could have made the money available for more meaningful projects – also in Europe or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10278	Mr Gusenbauer has also been mentioned. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10300	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The planned decision on Austrian participation in aid measures for Brazil raises a number of questions that we are trying to discuss in the course of today's debate. In any case, I believe that the situation in Brazil cannot be considered separately from the whole world economic situation. It should be noted that there are currently relatively massive repression forces in the world economy, which is documented, among other things, in the fact that there is a massive withdrawal of foreign investment from the "emerging markets". It is also worth noting that over the last two years we have been dealing with a reduction in world trade and a reduction in raw materials prices. It was also true that over the last one and a half years, in various parts of the world, national economies have been in considerable difficulties and that, in the end, what began in Southeast Asia and continued over Russia has now reached the last line of defence in the emerging markets, namely Brazil. It should be assumed that if the situation in Brazil fails to get some control of it, not only slowing down but repressive forces will continue to work in the world economy. But that cannot be in all our interest. Therefore, there is something like global responsibility for what is happening in the world economy, since it affects all of us. And it's the question to ask: How is this global responsibility perceived? The point that I think is justified in Mr Firlinger's criticism is that over the last few years, due to extensive capital liberalization, it has shown that although profits are always privatized and extensively exhausted, when it comes to resolving a crisis, public funds are used to see an appropriate participation of private investors in crisis recovery packages. I believe that this has to be a critical point in relation to all the crisis resolution strategies so far. Second point: Are the institutions currently managing the world economy capable of doing so, and are they taking policy measures that are ultimately effective? The two key institutions in this context are the International Monetary Fund and the American Ministry of Finance, which essentially provide the directives. The policy of these two institutions has rightly been criticised. I would just like to remind you that the aid package for Russia has been decided, and five weeks later the crisis in Russia has become devastating. At the end of November 1998 an aid package for Brazil was decided, and a few weeks later the crisis in Brazil was hit. There is, of course, considerable doubt as to the accuracy of these strategies. On the other hand, the question of whether there was also a reason for this strategy was to gain at least time, because, if Brazil had just been hit by Russia, the turbulence in the world economy might have been even greater than they are now. That is to say, one must also recognize that it already had a certain sense to try at least the whole thing. So far, these entire crisis-solving packages have been criticised, particularly from the point of view that the social impact on the population has mostly been very dramatic and that, as a result of these packages, especially in Southeast Asia, there have also been some political turbulences. In this context, I refer in particular to the situation in Indonesia. However, this criticism is not valid for the Brazil package, because from a social point of view, the Brazil package was more balanced than those used in Southeast Asia. The main point of the debate, however, is that all the commitments made by the Brazilian Government in exchange for this package have not yet been implemented in Brazil and, therefore, the time profit resulting from the decision taken at the end of November has not really been used. There has been legitimate doubts from the outset as to whether the Brazilian Government will be able to enforce the agreed measures also in the Brazilian Parliament. There was an additional damper because one of the states of Brazil has declared a unilateral repayment moratorium of its debts to the Brazilian government, which means nothing more than that the Brazilian government, without any agreed action being taken, was also under pressure by individual local authorities. The fact that a fundamental change in Brazilian economic policy does not go by is quite obvious. The clear binding of the Brazilian real to the dollar clearly had consequences: The Brazilian exports have been expensive, the imports have been extremely cheap. There has been a great deal of consumption, and there has been a huge deficit in payments, which has made the Brazilian economy totally one-sidedly dependent on the fact that foreign money is flowing to Brazil. Some of them bought themselves very well, with real interest rates by 25 percent. This is an ordinary return, which, as it were, has been realized by the donors to Brazil over a period of time. However, it is quite clear that this policy cannot be continued. It is only the question whether, under the changed conditions in Brazil, the policy is now ready to take the necessary measures. I believe that action is absolutely necessary. It cannot be assumed that the world is watching one of the largest economies in the world sinking down the stream. It is therefore absolutely necessary to act! But if, until now, Brazil has failed to fulfil the conditions of the International Monetary Fund and has even disregarded individuals, it is of course also recommended that the "terms of reference" between the Monetary Fund and Brazil be renegotiated under the new conditions. There is now the opportunity to do so. The entire aid package of the International Monetary Fund for Brazil covers approximately 41 billion dollars. 9 billion dollars have been used up to now, but not a single dollar for those bilateral measures, for which we should now decide on part of Austria. I believe that the situation has now come that the International Monetary Fund is renegotiating with Brazil in order to come to another package, a package that promises a better success rate than the previous one. In addition, however, some fundamental conclusions should be drawn from the whole history of these financial and economic crises, as regards the way in which they are operated. In my view, it is quite clear that, without any conditions, the total liberalisation of capital movements for many parts of the world is not the right way and in reality results in more damage than in benefits for individual economies. I also believe that the monetary fund's policy, based solely on the interests of the management of the Monetary Fund and the American Ministry of Finance, cannot lead to conclusions that are reasonable for the whole world economy. In this context, I have noted with interest the discussion held between the Asian and European finance ministers last weekend in Frankfurt, where there was obviously a political incentive to achieve a stronger balance between the players in the world economy. Thirdly, I believe that I should like to examine the endless number of proposals that have now been made on how to ultimately involve private investors in dealing with the crisis. And it should be expected that joint political decisions will be taken at future World Bank and Monetary Fund meetings, so that private profiters will also participate in a crisis resolution. As far as the success of our Minister of Finance's negotiations is concerned, he should be congratulated: Austria's share of the International Monetary Fund is 1.32 percent and our participation in this multilateral aid measure for Brazil is 0.34 percent. All in all, it is a economical measure for Austrian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10396	Mr Van der Bellen has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not often that one becomes much wiser between the committee and the plenary session. In this case, however, it is. I would remind you that Mr Gusenbauer, who was excellently briefed and prepared in committee and who taught us about essential things, as I think, in the Committee on the question of how the IMF package will affect these 41 billion dollars, has said: Who knows?- Oh, my God! In the meantime, we know: The IMF package did not work. That's, I think, clear. On the day we discussed this 50 million dollar package in the Committee, probably at the same hour, Brazil gave up the close bond of exchange rate and claimed that it wanted to go to a wider band of the so-called Crawling Peg, which held exactly one day. Since Friday the real is in free fall or in a floating regime. Meanwhile, the real has been depreciated by 20 or even 25 percent to the dollar. The primary objective of the November 1998 agreement between IMF and Brazil was to prevent, with the help of this package, 41 billion dollars, among other things, the depreciation of the real – with all the possible consequences that this could have. This concept has failed. Remaining as a victim are not only Brazil, but also, as I mean, the International Monetary Fund, which in a relatively short time, and that in a row, with its concepts – we politely express it – had no immediate success. In the case of Russia, it took five weeks: five weeks between the agreement of that 22 billion dollar package and the debt moratorium and the free fall of the ruble. In the case of Brazil, it took about eight weeks: eight weeks between the IMF and Brazil agreement and the free fall of the real or a possible debt moratorium of Brazil. Both parties have not gone unharmed: The IMF too has at least been discredited to a certain extent. According to what I know about this particular situation there, it seems that the triggeres of the crisis in Brazil are essentially homemade – and also do not agree with the triggeres for the crisis in Southeast Asia, for example. While the current balance, export development and so on have been regularly looked at in such crises, in the case of Brazil, it is so - as I am a little different from you, Mr Gusenbauer - that it is not understandable that these components would have been direct trigger for the present situation. The reason for the current situation in Brazil is also not likely to lie in banking supervision – as was or is the case in Southeast Asia – or in a corrupt banking structure, but the reason for this is essentially the persistence of the fiscal deficit. 8 per cent for 1998 are not very little – but at the moment I do not have the figures about the years before in mind – and the worrying time-limit structure of public debt must not be disregarded, which is now less foreign indebtedness than in the field of internal indebtedness. All these are homemade problems. It is clear that such things cause crises of confidence, especially when it is known – or at least in the end, it is known – how the political conditions there are and are also estimated. The "economist" – at least ex post – was of the opinion on Friday that the Brazilian government was politically weak, incompetent and incompetent. – But one has, I suppose, already knew in November when staff from the IMF were there. So what remains of experience, both positive and negative, of this whole thing? – The limits of the IMF's intervention have been clearly demonstrated. The objectives of the Pact of November 1998 between the IMF and Brazil were clearly missed. It is true – and Mr Gusenbauer has already pointed out – that at least time was "bought" in the situation at that time, shortly after the disaster in Southeast Asia and Russia, as well as what is already forgotten, near disaster by LTCM, the Hedge Fund Long-Term Capital Management. All of this – and then the Brazil crisis above – has to be said: It makes sense to "buy" for eight weeks. In the meantime, we have almost suppressed 1998, so that Brazil is almost seen as an isolated phenomenon. – In ex post we can interpret this in such a way that it is at least a positive aspect of this crisis. The participation of private creditors remains open, both of which have been mentioned by my predecessors. After all, 70 percent of private creditors seem to have agreed to a roll-over or a new loan, but for the remaining 30 percent one must say again that the public support for Brazil is de facto a "bail-out" for private creditors. Fourthly, we have to learn from it – I have at least this impression – that we have to decide in a exchange rate regime: either floating or fixed exchange rates – such as at the time at Schilling and D-Mark or now in monetary union in the EU. But that in between, these "crawling pegs", where, so to speak, an adjustment process in exchange rates is being carried out, that is the devil! In fact, economic policy measures should be taken which are as hard as monetary union, but which have lower credibility from the outset – at least always tossing a credibility problem around. I have the impression that all the attempts of recent crisis solutions have failed, as long as they have been tried to support these Crawling-peg mechanisms. And that, I think, is not a coincidence. On the fifth point, which Mr Gusenbauer referred to as 'the capital controls'. I must say that, despite everything, I am not convinced, because precisely developing countries, the "emerging markets" and so on, are dependent on capital imports; this is, in fact, the mark of a country not yet so highly industrialized. And capital imports will not be facilitated if those who invest there who want to transfer their capital there know from home that they do not get it out again. – Whether this is in the sense of a properly understood development policy, I still have great doubts about that. With regard to today's vote: It is clear that SPÖ and ÖVP must honour the agreements they have reached with the National Bank, with the BIZ and with our European partners. But from the point of view of an opposition party who was neither involved nor informed of these negotiations, nor otherwise "guilty" or "innocent" in these events, I do not see the slightest reason to participate in such a risky matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10517	Mr Dr. It's stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10538	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is really sad that Mr Van der Bellen, who is a national economist and therefore undoubtedly understands the economic context and also the need for such international agreements, says that the opposition must reject this, since it was not involved accordingly. Mr Van der Bellen! I would have liked you to acknowledge that there is basically no political alternative to a short-term, global solidarity action for the sixth largest economy in the world. Today, we decide on the legal basis for Austria's participation in a very large global aid campaign for an economy, at a time when, ladies and gentlemen, we are globally connected in such a way that, regardless of whether the crisis centre is located in Asia, Russia, Japan or South America, all of us have to worry about domino effects and thus have a negative impact on jobs in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not forget, Brazil is Austria's fifth largest export market in overseas. There are therefore direct, direct impact on the export economy in Austria. I think only of the fact that due to the Southeast Asia crisis – so small has the world become: "global village" – for example, the paper machines in Nettingsdorf stand still and the workers there are concerned about their jobs. The world has become so small, and this keyword from the "global village" has long been a daily reality. We must live with it and therefore I say a clear yes to such international aid actions. Of course, one can criticise one or the other in retrospect, of course one can then bring some nationally important argument, but basically we have no alternative if, together with the International Monetary Fund, a stabilisation and consolidation programme has been drawn up, which amounts to a considerable amount – 18 billion dollars! – making available if the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank... – Mr colleague, I see you have not even read the documents! [[Abg. May. Trattner: 49 billion!]] I would have assumed that you at least have read the documents. There are three sources: It is the money of the International Monetary Fund with 18 billion dollars, it is each 4.5 billion dollars from the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank, and it is an amount of just over 14 billion bilateral aid, of which about half, about 7.5 billion dollars, from the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! The share of Austria of 50 million dollars is 0.34 percent. Our share – Austria’s share – of Brazil’s imports is twice as high, namely 0.6 percent. So we are on a line with small countries like Luxembourg, with economically weak countries such as Ireland or Greece. In fact, it was more about the question: Does this contribution of solidarity actually correspond to our economic relationship with Brazil, or should it not be larger? [[Abg. May. Trattner: It's not about that!]] Mr Trattner! This was the question for me, and I think it is indeed a blamble one that we cannot reach agreement here in this House in such an international aid action, which is ultimately also a matter of securing jobs in the export industry in Austria. I am really sorry that because of a justamental stand, a ritual behaviour on the part of the opposition – the opposition must be opposed if something is done by the government! – there is no joint decision here. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say: We can discuss a lot of details there or there, to bring in other national economic, national and economic aspects, no question at all, and of course Mr Van der Bellen is quite right with some of his arguments. But when he says as a conclusion: For this reason, I am against Austria's involvement in such an action, and I must say that I do not understand such an attitude. I am here writing a clear yes to this international solidarity action for a country with which we have very good economic relations. In the previous year, exports amounted to 4 billion schillings, and roughly 4,000 jobs in Austria were expected. – On our part, a clear yes to this action!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10590	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Nut trees. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10611	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The acceptance of this guarantee is only a small part, Mr President, but you should see that as well - of a series of acceptances of liability, all of which have to be written down in themselves. I have Mr Gusenbauer, who is now no longer in the hall – oh, there he is! – very closely listened, and I also share his assessments. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (from a place other than his seat) Here!]] But in the consequence, Mr Gusenbauer, this would mean to the Federal Minister that at the present time a acceptance of liability is at least extremely problematic, because no one seriously believes that these 50 million dollars will ever return. This, Mr Federal Minister, is precisely the waste of money we are talking about over and over again, but that is not the criterion. The criterion is whether we can achieve something with this help, whether it is possible to stabilise the Brazilian financial system. Federal Minister! You have stated in the Committee that this is a joint restructuring programme with a total budget of $41.5 billion, but you have not told us what the agreement with the Brazilian Government looks like. You have not said what the essential contents of this restructuring package look like and under what conditions the aid funds are going to Brazil. In the meantime the real is devalued, the aid program is actually obsolete, but the funds are probably already decided to a large extent. Maybe you can say something about that. Federal Minister! They have committed themselves to these liabilities and acceptances of liability without knowing how the money is used there. You have made the decision of the Council of Ministers without having any concrete ideas as to how you, as then ECOFIN President and Chairman of the Council of Ministers, will involve your colleagues in the EU Council of Ministers and what you will propose to them. And you have called for acceptance of liability without verifying whether this financial support is not exclusively used to enable investors to withdraw from Brazil quickly and in particular loss-freely. I am therefore saying this because an unanticipated high return on capital from Brazil has taken place and you have not put the demand for private investors to be involved in the rehabilitation programme nor have you taken steps in the direction of allowing the funds to flow until the private investors do not deduct their capital. I have heard that this is only more than 30 percent now, but 30 percent are just something. Federal Minister! I believe that Austria – as well as the other countries – gives much too careless loans and assumes liability. The BIZ report shows that Austria has a total of 304 billion Schilling loans, of which almost 8 billion are from Brazil, and now these 600 billion are added again. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: millions!]] - Yes! It is the main problem of the international financial system that credit is allocated to each other and then secured with federal liability, but ultimately to the detriment of taxpayers when there is a failure. Why? – Because no one credit solves a structural problem, but perhaps a collapse – and we have seen it in the devaluation of the real – simply goes out, sometimes even a short time out. This has nothing to do with international networking, as honourable Members would have done. That is why, Mr President, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Gusenbauer, the responsibility for these 600 million in itself means nothing but the destruction of further assets of 600 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10668	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10690	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Nußbaumer, I cannot agree with you: It is not that simple that this loan would simply be an extermination of 600 million schilling. It's also the statement of Firlinger's not right, who meant that you're just throwing good money to the bad one. It is easy to understand, but therefore not more true. It is simply that we are working with world financial systems that operate in liberalised capital markets that overpower some national states – and that is the need for reform. The liberalisation of global capital movements, which was so powerful for the developed countries, has obviously had a very negative effect on some nation-states because they did not meet their own national responsibilities. The Brazilian government has kept its net Atlantic debt in height for many years, which had to lead to a crash! The influence of international financial systems on this development was to demand higher interest rates. There's the problem to look for! It is the question of how a globalised economy deals with national miscarriage. And it has only been remembered briefly that Austria has also gone a way of indebtedness. Only have we thank God still the trust of investors, and we deserve it too. Nevertheless, we have gone a way of indebtedness, with a factor, but we have therefore no doubt increased financial debt five times faster than economic performance. Financial debt 1970: 47 billion, financial debt in 1998: about 1,700 billion schilling, which is a factor of 34; economic performance has nominately multiplied only six times at this time, so we owe ourselves five times faster than our economy has done more. This is your problem today, Minister of Finance! You don't have any more room for play! We still have the confidence of the markets in Austria – we will still have it for a long time, I hope – but we have done something similar, only thanks to God are not so extensive and with greater caution than the Brazilians have done, whose indebtedness has increased much faster until they have lost the confidence of the financial markets. Today we are in favour of ultimately having to help out of real self-interest, Mr Nußbaumer. We have to try to shake this Brazilian hole today, of our own interest, because we have no interest in it becoming a black hole that draws the Latin American economy into a swirl. Mr Stumvoll is to be approved. What he says is right. Therefore, this commitment to decide on the Austrian share of this aid here is also carried by the Liberals. In short, four points to highlight where I think reform is really necessary. The first point is to make the national states aware of their economic responsibility – there is the first evil – and the international organisations act before the situation that was likely to occur in Brazil. It was not explosive or implosive, it was foreseeable! There has already been an error in recent years, affecting economic development there. The second is that the world's financial investors will have to learn, in a new world financial system that we urgently need, that returns to succeed is one thing, but losses to take on the other. Capital cannot always grow, capital must also be destroyed. The third point is the reduction of real interest rates below real growth. Not we Austrians will do this, we will have to discuss it in the global financial system. Real interest rates cannot be higher in the long term than real growth, because this would mean that capital is growing much faster than economic performance and that over interest rate effect is attracting an ever greater part of economic performance, which automatically leaves less for wage income. And the fourth point: We need a fundamental reform in the international structures – whether this is the bank for the International Payment Balance, whether it is the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank. Mr Finanzminister! This will not be determined by the Austrian Parliament, but I believe that as a European participant in the ECOFIN Council and as a representative – as far as you are yourself – in the international organisations, Austria should raise its voice and call for a reform before we face a real European financial crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10758	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10779	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have discussed this proposal in a relatively detailed manner in the Committee on Finance, and it has indeed happened a lot since the discussion in the Committee on Finance in Brazil. Brazil did not comply with those agreements reached with the IMF with a view to fiscal consolidation and currency stability, with strict connection to the dollar. There is no question at all that due to this situation between the IMF and the Brazilian Government new negotiations must take place on the conditions under which – the amount of 41 billion dollars has not yet been made available – 9 billion dollars have so far been flown – in future the funds made available by the State community will actually flow to Brazil. I am quite right to say that, as a result of the events of the last year in various areas of our world, there must also be a rethinking of international financial structures and, if necessary, appropriate financial assistance. It is also far too superficial to want to give the impression – although this was not the case here today, but I experience it again and again in discussions – that the international financial and currency turbulences of Southeast Asia have the same causes over Japan, over Russia until now to the Latin American continent, such as Brazil. It is true that they have similar effects, but the causes that have ultimately led to these situations are completely different in nature. And it is also with one point – now in a very simplified presentation – of the discussions that started at the last meeting of the IMF in America, which was chaired by Austrian State Secretary Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, that a debate has been held on how the IMF is also reviewing, controlling and ultimately controlling the conditions for international financial and monetary assistance. There is little point in creating programmes that may not be respected on the one hand or on the other hand, on the social dimension, which ultimately lead to budgetary consolidations in these countries, because under such conditions the national governments in question are almost unable to comply with these conditions. I therefore believe that in future this discussion will also have a much stronger role from the European perspective. We, as Europeans, have been the larger number in the IMF – compared to the United States – but not only has the impression emerged in the public, but it was probably also often the case that the IMF has perceived more specific interests of the United States than others. But on the other hand, we must not forget – this is an argument that I am very conscious of – that Europe has just been split into many small economies. This will change through the common economic and monetary union and also the political decisions that we made in December, namely to develop a structure after which the Europe of the Eleven, those eleven countries with the single currency, will also speak with one voice and therefore the individual States will have to vote their interests before we in the international organizations, when it comes to drawing up programmes, will speak. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, and I have said this very clearly in committee, that I cannot guarantee it at all – no one can do so! – that the loans are served. – They have not yet flown, but in case they flow. I have only found that the previous commitments made by Brazil to the Republic of Austria have been met, but including those made jointly in the "Club of Paris" in 1992. That is to say, confidence in the Brazilian Government's fulfilling its international payment obligations, at least by its past behaviour. The fact that Brazil is facing a difficult situation is not at all a question, and I understand it if critical comments are made in this regard. What has happened to me, however, is that one does not imagine the following scenario: namely, the international community of states does not help countries like the sixth largest economy in the world, namely Brazil, if – by whatever circumstances – it is certainly most homemade – it is in trouble. Because what happens then? Brazil is far away when you look at the globe, but the world is more and more made up of a variety of links in the cultural, social and, of course, economic sphere. A reference to the Brazilian economy would have an immediate impact on the vast market of the United States and, in a secondary way, on the market in Europe! This is by no means advocacy. I am very grateful, Mr President, for pointing out how high the share of Austrian financing is, for example, in relation to Austrian exports. It is not a question of exporting to such large countries, because we do so not only out of Christian charity to the Brazilians, but out of quite firm considerations, in order to secure Austrian jobs. In this respect, it is a link between relationships and dependencies. But I am right to say that the European Union and, above all, the Economic and Monetary Union must be more involved in the structure of the IMF's programmes. This is about examining the pace at which, for example, budgetary consolidations can be expected for national governments, if we want them to be able to redeem them. This is also the question that has been raised here: What are we doing to prevent private individuals, who are engaged in the phase of endless profits there, from taking their decisions in good time and thus aggravating the situation in that country and increasing the need for the other public hands to renovate, for example in the form of such programmes? This is very easily identified in a cause research, but it is extremely complex and complicated, and it is likely that solutions can only be achieved gradually. This also depends to a certain extent on how, in a crisis-like situation – in the case of Brazil for example – the international community, together with the government acting there, succeeds in maintaining at least a minimum of confidence. Otherwise, not only 30 percent of the private people there would have disappeared, but probably all 100 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, I believe that even at a time of globalisation, liberalisation in all areas of international action, the rules under which this is happening also require an international approach. This is also a task to be considered in connection with such financing, as I think. I give you perfectly right if you consider the IMF's current strategy to be not satisfactory. This is what we see as countries of the European Union, and the German Presidency as our successor presidency has recorded our ball at the World Conference and postulated it as one of the important points of the ECOFIN Council to work on the restructuring of the international financial architecture. I believe that the proposal we are adopting today is important that it is correct that it is reasonable that it has little financial significance in relation to our economic commitment, but that we should have lost much more of an international reputation if we were the only European country that does not participate in economic and financial assistance for Brazil. This is a part of applied solidarity, but not entirely indifference, but also in the interests of the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10848	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. That'll go out until 3:00 p.m., then you'll have to interrupt. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10872	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr President, has spoken of a solidarity action. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the solidarity action for the domestic population? 600 million schillings are donated, and this money makes a trip without returning to Brazil. For Brazil, this money cannot even be a drop on the hot stone. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The whole thing is called "EU aid measure". Minister! Under your Presidency, 56 billion schillings have ultimately disappeared within the EU. It would once be an EU aid measure to find these 56 billion schillings that have disappeared, which the Commission would almost have fallen into Europe. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Only the responsibilities of your Members are due to the fact that they are still sitting there until the next election. But that's not how it can be! They were, as ECOFIN Chairman of the initiator of this so-called aid action, which took place on 19 June. In November of last year a government decision has already been taken, but it has not even known what it is all about. They have said that if Austria does not participate, the other countries will not participate. Maybe it would have been even more meaningful, because: Support, assistance, international solidarity, everything right and beautiful, everything in order, but a certain degree of stabilisation of political and economic conditions especially in Brazil could be required before sending the money on the journey. It is also evident that in Austria we currently have the highest unemployment, that we are a state of early pensioners, that your friend Stronach has acquired the work in Steyr a year ago with the commitment to create additional jobs. But what does he do? – 100 employees are dismantled with the tempting offer to commute from Steyr to Graz on a daily basis. Where is your party's moral solidarity? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where does social responsibility remain for the working population in our country, if one so loosely sends nothing to me, nothing, 50 million dollars to you in a country, even though one knows precisely that this does not constitute an aid to this country or leads to an improvement somewhere. Our domestic economy would be more helpful if you could finally create conditions in our country in the context of a tax reform that would make it possible for work to be done again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10923	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda. Short debate on Question Time 4835/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10945	We will proceed to the implementation of the short debate on the reply to the question 4835/AB. The corresponding document has been distributed in the meeting room, so there is no need for reading. We are going into the debate. The first speaker has 10 minutes, the other speakers 5 minutes speaking time. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Gaugg. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10979	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The answer to the question by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs concerning measures to promote non-marketable work is a three-sided nothing. A more perfect failure to answer a request can rarely occur. However, to give the whole volume, go here and then fix the "National Plan for Employment" of 24. ==References== You, Mrs. Federal Minister, make it relatively easy. You let the economic research institutes raise, you make government clauses, you make SPÖ-clauses. Your Federal Chancellor announces that there will be an "employment offensive". – I think it is a dangerous threat in the meantime when your Federal Chancellor takes this word into his mouth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor has been in office for three years, and he was previously Minister of Finance. You too, Mrs Minister, have had enough time to create the appropriate working conditions under which work, skill and work in our country are again worthwhile. If you and your labour market service today are going to get rid of jubilation reports of constantly increasing employment growth every month, you should also say that the majority of these jobs are part-time jobs with which people do not even have a chance of survival because they get much less for these part-time jobs than the minimum of existence in Austria. That is something I do not understand in particular with the Socialist Members. At the same time, the Minister of Finance enters the discussion and now the skiers want to pay taxes on the total income, not only of 25 percent of their income. The next one to speak about is Mr Bundeskanzler Klima. He believes that artists should also be involved in the fact that only 25 percent of their income should be taxed. I'd suggest: Let us finance the lower incomes by taxing only more than 25 percent of their incomes, because these are actually artists, namely survivors in this Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You and your colleagues in the government believe, and we have been hearing for months, that this famous one, since 1. The euro introduced in January 1999 will solve all the problems of Austria. There was a special euphoria, huge wine bottles, champagne bottles. ==References====External links== January 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Not with you? Admit, you've opened a bottle! As I know you, you also opened a bottle!]] It was almost adventurous how high the price was and how strong and stable he had developed against the dollar. Only: In the meantime, we have already lost at least 10 percent of the course, and it does not touch anything. In reality, you have given the euro a latte that will not be respected by most countries. You seem to me like you're writing a marathon and saying all participants have to run under 2 hours 20 minutes. Now I'm asking You just: What if they don't make it? I ask you: What happens if this euro does not meet the expectations? This euro is also a work destroyer in Austria! Because what we don't need is these "famous" McJobs. We have been fighting for years as a social partners to ensure that there are social conditions in this Republic that allow people to live in a decent and decent way in the case of employment. What to do You out of it? – They say: Well, we have to increase collective agreements, 12 000 S are really enough and sufficient. – In here there is not a single person who has to get out of this monthly income. In particular, the Social Democrats are sitting in all their diversity and with all their imagination as regards the employment of their officials in addition to parliamentary activity. I would like you to have only one month with 15 000 s. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But you also get involved!]] This, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you, especially with children who may be studying. This is your social state that you have carried to the grave. With your social democracy, which has been the head of government since 1970, and is unable to enable employment in Austria, which also ensures an income. That's the biggest problem you're facing. You don't know any more solutions, but you're fleeing in clauses and you think that's what it's done. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Unlike you!]] You've launched apprenticeship employment programmes, you're doing actions for older workers, you're doing criminal actions for businesses that don't want to continue working on older workers, and so on. What's gotten hold of it to this day? They have announced - fifty measures always under threat of making less money available. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And measures enforced!]] In the labour market service, there is Mr Buchinger, who has been talking for weeks about the fact that the existing actions are no longer eligible for funding. But of course this is all for those who say today that we do so much for work and for employment, and the opinion polls seem to give you the right. It is true that, apparently, social democracy in Austria is still the guarantee that something good will be done for the population. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Yes!]] In fact, you have a sluggish inflation in the quality of the jobs, you have only more disabled people, you have opened the door to a tough competition, without ensuring that social conditions are in place. All that comes from the opposition parties in Austria is not even disputable. And the budget in Austria, that's 1a, that's so good! If the opposition criticizes this, then all this is black painting. Now I ask you all, Mrs Federal Minister: How do you want to finance all your actions if the EU Commission is already massively criticising the Austrian budget and its development today? I would like to have answers to that. All the actions you've been doing up to today don't get hold of! Of course, then, new ideas, such as remuneration without employment, come, because of something people have to live. I would already expect you to find answers from you, Mrs Minister, when it comes to measures to promote non-marketable work. Because that is incredible: constantly cloudy excuses, no concrete answers to concrete questions. I can tell you that you too are probably responsible for the fact that social unrest and social conflicts will occur here in Austria. A large industrialist from Canada very close to you – Mr. Stronach – is the best example of this. He makes many announcements. For everything, he's tearing: This begins with the Presidency in the Bundesliga and reaches out to huge investments he will make. Only it's not yet clear with what money. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Even the bear batteries he wants, Mr. Haider said!]] But then he is the first to leave 100 employees in Steyr. 100 employees in Steyr will be released again! I ask you, Mrs Minister: Where are you? Where are your reactions? How do you work to prevent this? Or don't you want to stop it anymore? Is the only thing you have in mind, the forced membership of the Chambers and the concern that the union federal officials are doing well? Their thinking has for a long time not been the question of how to help those people who suffer from it, that some with shareholder value thinking and limitless profit maximize their beings at the expense of humanity in Austria. These 100 employees in Steyr are offered at the same time to commut to Graz: Where does the social responsibility of you and your colleagues remain? The constant announcement of new programmes does not even bring about a single job. What we would like would be appropriate measures in the context of tax reform, a corresponding wage tax reduction, a reduction in taxes on businesses, a reduction in bureaucracy. It has also been promised by you for many years, the reduction of bureaucracy, which leads to the finally opening of a business or a business in a few weeks and does not take as it is today until, for example, an economic chamber drops down to grant an authorisation somewhere. In reality, it should be the following: that a company can start and get a checklist on which conditions are to be fulfilled, and then it will be checked once. But with us it's the other way round: First of all, you need ten thousand schilling, then you don't have to know how many chamber bodies you want or not. First of all, this is the decisive thing. I'm glad Mr. Maderthaner, that's clear. Because as long as we have compulsory membership, we don't need a performance, do we? [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You don't know what you're talking about!]] As long as the money flows like milk and honey, we don't have to do it all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Actually, it's much worse!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government and of the Chambers, were to go in and think about how many of you would then remain as members, then you might not sit around as cheerfully, but actually think about how the economic conditions in Austria can be improved. Their methods are limited to major announcements. In tax reform, we have been hearing for months what you will do. We wait anxiously for what actually comes out. In fact, you are preparing the next load package for post-national elections. I can only tell you: Here the opposition parties, and especially we liberals, will certainly not play with them. What we need, these are economic conditions for a free economy and a good wage for workers!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11125	Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11147	Thank you very much, Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg has asked that a debate be held on the written reply to Question 5077/J on the question of "non-marketable work" - I now put it under quotation marks. I take the concrete wishes of the honourable Members very seriously and will therefore allow me, but very detailedly, to address this question on this specific subject, because I regret that it has not been enough for the ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, as the written answer has been. I am also very pleased to have the opportunity to report to the House on this new initiative "New Start" because we want to start a pilot project here that has never been tried in Austria in this form, and I therefore also ask for the support of the ladies and gentlemen of the House so that we can create more employment and reduce the number of unemployed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This pilot project aims to make socially valuable and important but not yet marketable work marketable through targeted measures. There is an attempt to open up new areas of employment where there is a great potential, such as in the service sector. If you follow the discussion at the European level, you will see that there is the same view in other countries, as a result of the discussions between the social and labour ministers of the European Member States, that there is a potential for additional employment, particularly in the service sector, and therefore also for the reduction of unemployment. I will support and support this initiative, which is accompanied by the economic sector, with budget resources of 150 million schilling. These are additional resources for active labour market policies. With these additional resources, we are also in line with those levels at which active labour market policies are spent in other countries. I admit that, in the past, we have not incurred expenditure at those levels of active labour market policy, as has been done in some Scandinavian countries, for example. I would like to say that there have also been other systems, other framework conditions, and that is why this is not necessarily and immediately comparable. According to my group, my experts and myself, it will be possible to promote around 800 jobs in a budget of 150 million schilling within a year, thus giving 800 unemployed a new job opportunity. I think it is worth working for this goal with all its strength! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can also tell you that there are currently 668 requests and 28 specific, submitted requests in my section or in the advisory firm ÖSB, which would represent a volume of about 500 jobs. You see that the interest in this pilot project is very high for this initiative. I am pleased that the information about it – as is apparent from this reaction – has worked to a large extent, even though it seems that it did not land precisely with the ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. The time period for submission of applications is 31st. In January 1999, as we intend to go directly to the award of the corresponding contracts and projects, we are also quick to achieve effects for unemployed Members, not only in order to achieve the great success of an increase in employment rates, an increase in the number of working people, but also in order to reduce unemployment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The aim is to provide short-term impetus for activities that are socially meaningful and important and which require a need for which there is no market for which this needs are met, jobs are created, and at the same time ensure that these jobs are sustainable themselves, because these projects also ensure the need and the necessary future financing or are ultimately taken over by other bodies. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, although I know that time is not really enough, to quote some of the objectives of the programme from the special guidelines for this programme. These are the promotion of natural and legal persons, the personal societies of commercial rights or registered companies operating a company, the creation of jobs for unemployed persons in connection with the provision of socially important services currently – and I repeat – on the Austrian market – in parentheses – which are (yet) marketable or can only be partially financed through proceeds. The main difference to the former "Action 8000" is that it is not about the creation of transit jobs, which should allow the second to move as quickly as possible into the first labour market, but rather about the sustainable construction of new and stable permanent jobs for unemployed people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you are not yet in possession of this special directive which we have drawn up, I am allowed to offer you an opportunity to submit it to your request, so that you can provide substantial information on your political contacts as well. Mr Gaugg, ladies and gentlemen! If you have complained that I have attached the National Action Plan on Employment to the answer to your question, I have done so to show you that our initiative, with which we are working for employment and against unemployment, includes not only this pilot project, but also that we have a comprehensive programme for this employment policy objective, a programme to which the Federal Government feels obliged and, in particular, I myself feel obliged. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Gaugg explains his assessment of the situation in Austria and the situation of the population, I sometimes think he is talking about another country. What he represents is not the Austria in which we live. [[Abg. Gaugg: Then go with me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know the problems to the same degree as you. But I am fighting for the improvement of this situation, without at the same time making everything bad and without denying what great progress we are making at the same time. [[Abg. Gaugg: This does not take place in the Vienna Belvedere!]] You seem to be sorry that we have succeeded in de facto in not having youth unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: An increase in unemployment is not progress, Mrs. Minister!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The increase in unemployment is not progress!]] They seem to regret that we have success in giving each and every youth a professional perspective. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: An increase in unemployment is not progress, Mrs. Minister!]] [[Abg. More nice: But the increase in employment!]] They seem to regret that we have the highest level of employment we have ever had in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has each picture two sides. – See also the second page!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11280	Thank you many times, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11304	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg complained that his request would have brought only a three-sided one. This is, after all, a labour market policy measure, which is now beginning and in which projects can be submitted, until 31. January this year. So what else should the Federal Minister report in addition to what she has already reported? It is probably legitimate that it has also addressed other measures. You have just addressed these measures on a tax basis, because these measures have been successful, and you cannot and should not say that here, because this would be the case. You're questioning yourself. [[Abg. Gaugg: You don't believe what you say! You just need to read the statistics!]] I'm sure I believe what I'm saying. You are always talking about higher unemployment, but the high employment rate in Austria is not mentioned. But you, the "templer of the nation", have of course dealt with taxes immediately, with a sportsman's leave, and there you have made a very dangerous threat. In fact, you said you should also grant low-income beneficiaries 25 percent tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I say the following to you: This is a very dangerous threat, Mr Gaugg, because these low incomes are tax-free at all, and we want to leave it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would, however, like to deal primarily with the "Newstart" pilot project. 150 million are available to open up new employment areas, particularly in the service sector. We want to create permanent jobs. Support should only be granted in the first year, after which these establishments should receive themselves. And I see it positively to the difference between Mr Gaugg and Mr Gaugg that it is also possible to submit part-time jobs. Because you know the problems with childcare facilities. It is therefore only possible for some to use a part-time job. I consider the promotion of not only profit-oriented companies, but also non-profit organisations such as funds and associations to be particularly positive. I know from my own experience that there are a lot of finished projects that cannot be started because there is no initial capital for the corresponding jobs and because it takes some time for such projects to have the necessary acceptance. With this acceptance comes self-sustainability. It is always the case that various subsidies are exploited. That is why I am personally glad that only companies which have not cancelled employees in the last four months are eligible. I also think the competition clause is important. I think it is particularly important that there is a common wage for local and industry. For, ladies and gentlemen, the income of his work should also be able to compete with the livelihood. They have mentioned that this would not be possible. These measures make it possible. Support per job will be between 150 000 S and 300 000 S for one year, for a part-time job the aliquota. "New Start" means linking the satisfaction of socially important needs with the creation of additional jobs. We have addressed many areas, I would just like to take out one: personal services, health, care and care. In these areas we are far from surface coverage, and this measure could be very helpful to us. "Newstart" promotes innovative service areas and is a project into the future. The 150 million that are made available for this are more than good. The other measures that we have taken in the past were also well-designed. They've always brought the effect we've predicted. That is simply not what the ladies and gentlemen of the liberals want to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11352	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11373	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that we need a diverse programme for the creation of work in Austria. It has been pointed out in these days from our side, also from the government side, that not a measure alone is appropriate to create the work we need in Austria, but several points of approach, several initiatives are necessary. We have therefore also said expressly in the government about this "restart" project, although we attach great importance to the fact that a review of this project is also being carried out to what extent it is successful. I believe that this review will take place very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a large area where work is being done today, in the real sense, but it is not recognized as such. I am thinking here of the voluntary work done in non-profit associations, in socially important, charitative organizations and associations. We call that, Mr Oellinger, the citizen's work, the work for the citizen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good!]] Yes, you have said that correctly, we assume from civil society, where each one is responsible for the other and works for the other. And this work in civil society, this civil work – I admit, it is a new concept – should also be recognized, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's this about? . It is about the fact that work, no matter where it is done, when it is important for society, for the Community in the social field, in the non-profit sector, first of all social security. It is a clear and clear social protection of this work. We should also do this, I believe, and we should also make a contribution to it. Ladies and gentlemen! What would our associations be, what would our nonprofit institutions be without this voluntary activity? I could imagine that the recognition of this work is a contribution to avoiding unemployment. What if, instead of providing social assistance, we were to have a recognition of civil work if we were to pay for civil work instead of social assistance? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I already know that such considerations include entirely new aspects. To conclude, I would like to say the following: Yesterday was a very valuable presentation of a social charter at the Kummerinstitut. One of the really profound experts of the situation has pointed out that we need a new assessment of work. Work is also intended to create incomes in all areas of social security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's why we advertise very massively. If we come to such a new view, I think it would be an important contribution to avoiding unemployment. I can tell you that the actions taken by the EIA have been successful by the government in order to avoid unemployment. I can only remember the actions for young people. These actions were initially also criticised, but at least they helped to reduce the unemployment of young people from 15 to 18 years of age by 10 per cent in 12 months. Similar measures would also offer older people a similar opportunity to break out of unemployment and to do work for our Community. A broader recognition of this work would bring us much further. It is precisely you from the Green Group who should agree to such a project immediately, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11436	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11457	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Reitsamer's comments, and I believe that it is not a dangerous threat if the Freeman's 150 000 S tax exemption is required, while in Austria the minimum tax-free living is currently 67 000 S. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Taking into account the social security contributions, the minimum tax-free existence is currently 116 000 S. The people whose income is between them and who are subject to taxation today would be very happy if Mr Gaugg had the saying and not you, Mrs Reitsamer, who is a very much respected colleague, because between them are worlds. Another thing: If you, Mrs Bundesminister, have mentioned the employment rate, I must tell you clearly and clearly that the figures which have been presented to you differ from those which you are officially publishing. 1992 to 1997: for men, 2.4%, for women, 0.4% for employment. 1996 to 1997: men minus 0.1 percent, women minus 0.2%. The EU's criticism shows that the number of self-employed in Austria is the most recent in Europe and that nothing can be seen from the new offensive of entrepreneurs in Austria. Now that the Austrian government has given the Presidency back to the EU, the truth is finally coming to light, and blue letters are being sent. Mrs. Federal Minister! That is why we do not need a euphoric debate here, and we do not even need the anti-opposition presuppose that we make everything ready. In the case of the highest unemployment since 1954, all of us here in Parliament have made every effort to get the Austrian population back to work and to provide employment that is half equivalent to that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you know very well: The increase in the number of part-time jobs in Austria has been fully at the expense of day-to-day employment. In contrast to Holland, we have not achieved the effect that, with part-time jobs, we have at least equally balanced unemployment, but it is the women and older workers who have been paying the token for years. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that speaking that something must finally be done for women, that this is the "Causa" fine, that the "chef thing", that is, the case of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, is really a dangerous threat. The question of employment has always been a matter of chief importance since 1987, since German Chancellor Vranitzky. – However, there has been nothing better for Austrian workers and older workers in that country. I am sorry, Mrs Federal Minister, but we no longer have any confidence that the concepts you are presenting to us again and again will be better this time than those you have presented in the last ten years. I'm going to experience it with us in the region, too. Yesterday we had a meeting in the city council with the officials of the Council of State Haller, who clearly and clearly informed us that we should now finally carry out a new regionalization from Spittal. When the scenarios in the agricultural field change from the backdrop of five to the scene three, those projects that still create about 70 jobs in our district and which are not self-calculating will get away, and the management will then make three to four people. More money is not to be expected! That's the reality! We are no longer allowed to push ourselves here by beautiful excuses so to speak, but we want to finally see actions, actions that bring the Austrian population back to employment, which at last guarantee the Austrian workers the standard of living that the union has been demanding for decades. There can be no mention of an average income of 15 000 s at all for many. There are enough people who have to earn only 10,000 s or even come out with 3,600 s to 5,800 s. I would also like to refer to the system of citizens in England, which Mr Feurstein has praised. My brother-in-law lives in England, retired, and he has to do this civil service there because otherwise he could not keep his standard of living at the end of his life at 40 percent pension. – I do not regard such a thing as a social success, but only as a social emergency measure, to those people who are still half fit, at a time when they should be in a deserved retirement – in England you do not go at the age of 58 or 59 in early retirement, but at the age of 65 and 67 and at that age you are no longer very powerful, fragile and eroded, as it is so striking in the folk mouth – at least to secure existence and nothing else. This should not be the way of Austrian social policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11525	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11546	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have just recently drawn up the guidelines on the implementation of the pilot project and, of course, I prefer to study them more closely. But already the fleeting reading has prompted me to go into something certain. They themselves refer to the old "Action 8000". Its objective was to create 8,000 jobs by means of a certain social policy approach. Today we have heard from Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch, "Newstart" requires 150 million schilling and aims at 800 jobs. So "Newstart" might be an action 800, that is, a zero has fallen away, it's a tener potential less. Maybe it's structurally better. But I also have my doubts about that, and I tell you why. The whole thing is under the claim to make non-marketable work possible. One should agree on semantics. What does "non-marketable work" mean? Does that mean – and I think something else cannot be understood about it – work that would be needed, but that the people they need cannot pay? That's not marketable work for me. Everything else would be the introduction of marketable work, i.e. business promotion. This can make sense there or there, especially for innovative things, for innovative products. However, there are other possibilities for this, such as facilitation of foundations, such as technology promotion, research funding et cetera. In the environmental field too, there is a wealth of opportunities to do something, for example in the tax field. But that's not what this action is all about. It is not about market launch, it can only be about non-marketable work. This is the subject, and I ask you to really consider what it means when 150 million schilling is taken over for 800 jobs hoped for. This action costs 187 000 S per capita or per capita per month 15 000 and a number of schilling without indicating how to overcome non-marketing capacity. They are included in your guidelines themselves areas in which the action could be carried out, such as the field of personal services, health, care, care. Yes, do you think someone who needs care and would like to take advantage of a service, but can't afford it, would it be useful if that would be possible for a year through "restart"? After this year in which this service has developed into marketability, however, the caregiver can no longer pay this benefit. If it is a social policy, social policy, health policy task to provide care, then it cannot be done through this spoon, but it must be considered where other errors may lie in this field. Is it possible that the care funds are not enough to buy performance, and so on and so on? But from the time you do this, this work will be marketable. Then the people concerned can pay them. Or if you are thinking about health care, which is also mentioned here: Hopefully, it is not a market job that the nurses provide the patient with care for the patient because one has to be paid directly for one. The patient is hopefully insured, and the insurance is hopefully able to pay what the hospital needs so that it can provide these care services. But you probably don't mean that. Or do you think that hospitals would not know if they needed more caregivers but could not afford it? Or do you really want to finance this through "newstart"? This is what irritates me so much that it seems that something which is not marketable is being made marketable by supporting it for a year. Either they are public tasks to be fulfilled, for example in the area of urban development or also municipal services and so on, then they are public tasks. Then the public hands, who would have liked this to happen, should pay for it and employ the people there. Then it becomes marketable, then there is a labour market. But you probably don't mean that either, or you would have called it by name. That is why I think it is a very interesting and exciting pilot project to find out something, although we already know today what will be found out, namely that this cannot work. So: Either You confess that you want to have any service of the public hand permanently, but then it will also have to be paid permanently, but then it will not need your support. Or it's something that people can't afford, then it's either because they have too little income or too little care money or anything else. But do make personal services, for example, for the people who can afford this tax deductible, and grant a negative tax to those who do not have income. For example, in the field of childcare, you would have a quantum leap on the labour market. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Do something like that! This would be a real start, but rethinking would require. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11611	The last speaker was Mr Karl Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11633	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A comment on the really exciting discussion between colleagues Haupt and Feurstein. With very correct arguments, my colleague, Mr Khol, has criticised the concept of this "citizen society", which Mr Khol is proposing, in the example of England, where it becomes apparent what is to be understood: that persons who are seeking social assistance have to obtain other social benefits, older people of 70, 80 years of age still have to go to work, so that they are entitled to this social benefit at all. – That, Mr Khol, is a non-social concept! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second thing that can be said about it – even if it's about you at the "citizen society" – concerns only the men, the fire brigades, the music clubs, but not the street musicians. Thirdly, one can say that it is about activities which, by calling them social and non-profit, are at the same time carried by you with the smell and the "odium" that they have to be paid worse. And this, Mr Khol, is also to be rejected. However, I shall now return to the comments made by the Head of State. The following note, Mr President, is acceptable to me: The argument is correct, only then remains of the charitable duty work that the liberals demand that God be nothing more. One should already check one's own concepts to see if one does not object to the right arguments itself. – But now I come to the real. I don't have anything against "restart". Thankfully, Mr Kier has already preceded some arguments, but I fear that "newstart" will suffer the old-end or the end-as-usual, as we already know from the "Action 8000". Mr Kier rightly pointed out that "Action 8000" still had the right to bring 8,000 people into employment. Now there are 800 people. 800 people! I've converted this, and I've calculated it. 800 people are 0.03% of the population. That's three hundredths! I now understand the sentence of Mr Bundeskanzler, who said he was fighting for every unemployed person. Sometimes every unemployed person is also fought. This sentence is also to be interpreted differently. Obviously it's really about the small sizes. Mrs. Federal Minister! However, we do not only need 800 jobs, but we need thousands and tens of thousands of jobs in view of the development of the labour market in the non-profit sector. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me give you an example. If I like this action so much – there are points that I like that I do not think is unnecessary – but at the same time I have to hear that in Lower Austria the daymothers employed by the various black and red clubs are no longer socially insured, because the AMS has withdrawn its support, then I wonder at whose cost what funding takes place. At the same time, I hear that child care aid has been removed in recent years, that the AMS is withdrawing from the promotion of non-profit childcare facilities, and that now, with "new start" it may be possible to promote private kindergartens, which I say is right to say, which are only to be made marketable with this help. If this is the alternative of making a little marketable in an area of industry-related services and industrial services and of sacrificing the actually non-profit sector, and this is the result of the promotions in recent years, then I must say that this is a wrong perspective. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 0.03 percent – an action that costs at least 150 million schilling. In other words, if the unemployment rate was improved by 0.3 percent, such an action would cost 1.5 billion schilling. You all know that these 1.5 billion do not exist at all because you have transferred them to other pots.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11688	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11703	Therefore, it would be urgently necessary to talk about an actual "new start", namely those of the entire active labour market policy in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11734	No further words are available. That is why the debate is closed. No applications are available either. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11758	We shall come next to the brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Firlinger and comrades, the Building Committee on the Reporting of Requests 118/A (E) on the revision of the Law on the Condominantness of the Law on the reduction of cooperative rents to the conservation contribution, a period of time until 24. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are going into the debate. First speaker 10 minutes, the other 5 minutes. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11788	Mr President. High house! It is already very little credible if the socialist residential speaker, Mr Eder, presents himself to the camera on the occasion of the SPÖ club in Salzburg and presents the following demand: The cooperatives must now finally reduce the rents – on the grounds that interest or interest rates have also fallen significantly in recent times. It is therefore not credible because the SPÖ now acts as if it had not been in the government for the last ten years, but would have been in opposition. – Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say this clearly: The SPÖ was not in opposition, but the driving force in the government. That's why this whole play is unworthy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is also little evidence that only now, due to the extremely low interest rate, will there be a need for action. Ladies and gentlemen! The rate of interest has been falling for many years and is falling sharply. The more interest rates fall, the more evenly the so-called basket money for housing cooperatives increases and reaches billions. This is money, ladies and gentlemen, which will keep the tenants away from non-profit apartments. This is pushed to the side, and with it the red and black-dominated housing companies work. What they do with the money, I don't know, ladies and gentlemen! Something they'll do, but they won't lead to social housing. Listen You are well aware, Mr President, that is what you should be interested in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – I then come to speak on a special matter, Mr Commissioner. Look at the situation! We want something quite legitimous. We want to achieve with our request that the rental level – I am talking about the pure rents, i.e. if an apartment is fully financed – be reduced to the conservation contribution. That is currently 30 p. It is a scandal that our request of 28 p. The building committee has been untreated for three years in February 1996. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also a scandal in terms of the concept of democracy of red and black. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only trial that took place was on 28 May. Feber, and there was an adjournment without reason. There was no reason at that time! If you look at the numbers, which is currently an average family for an apartment that is about 25-30 years old and 16 years old. Wiener Gemeindekreis lies, pays, then you can make a simple bill. – Mr Eder! Listen carefully! The example comes from one of your housing cooperatives, over which you always hold your hand protectively. For an 80-square meter apartment, a two-and-a-half-room apartment, the pure rental is 5 800 S, the operating cost is 1 700 S, makes a total of 7 500 S. Now the heating for 80 square meters is added. If we are generous or careful, we assume 1 000 s for it. That makes up 8 500 s. Finally, VAT is added, so we are at 10 000 s! – Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, which family, in particular which young family, where there may be only one single earner, can afford an 80 square meter apartment by 10,000 s. I'll ask you that! This is a single declaration of bankruptcy of your socialist housing policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Next point: How does it look with funding? – More and more often, the financing in the housing sector is revolving. In other words, it is refinanced to a short-term rate, which is based on the so-called reference interest rate on the money market. This is currently 3.1 percent in the euro area. A good, strong, bonitarian credit demander is able to receive the business with a credit from a bank in the order of 0.5 percent bank surcharge. That is, we are 3.6% interest, and this is adjusted every three months. Of course, this rate is higher in a high interest rate phase, but now we are in a low interest rate phase, and cooperatives have the opportunity to get money by 3.6 percent a year. But what will be charged to the tenants in the rental calculations, ladies and gentlemen? – Often, not everywhere, but often an interest rate of 8 or 8.5 percent. That's a scandal! This has nothing more to do with housing public utility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to achieve a significant relief with this reduction. If we go through what we formulated in our request at the time, then the same apartment with 80 square meters, Mr Eder, costs no more than 10 000 s, but a maximum of 6 300 s including VAT. This is probably a difference, especially for a small family! In addition, we want to lead the discussion in another direction. I've been talking about the pure rental area now. There are apartments that are rented as pure rental apartments. But there are also cooperative apartments in which there is always something like a fictitious co-ownership, but in reality there is no such thing. It's a fake relationship, but it's not a fact. We want to ensure that, after full financing of such investments, taking into account certain framework conditions, I must limit this, someone must have lived in it for a very long time, that this cooperative property, this co-ownership, can be transferred into a factual property at the end of the agreed term, without the tenant being asked to cash for a second time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] . I would like to repeat from this point of view this demand with due emphasis. Mr Eder, I hope that nothing will happen anyway, that this will be taken up sometime and then shipped again. Ladies and gentlemen! There are machinations in progress. The practices of many housing cooperatives in the field of red and black – also black, Mr. Cot, stupid and Mr. Khol, not only red, but also black – are unbearable! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Just black!]] You are really unbearable, ladies and gentlemen. I'll read to you now. [[Abg. Bures: Lower Austria! Where's your post?]] – Yes, yes, a very interesting contribution. There is an initiative proposal from Eder, stupid No. 413/A concerning the federal railways. This request was demented and put on ice, but it is not ad acta. Ladies and gentlemen! Listen to me! It is planned that ESG Villach and ESG Linz as well as WBG Vienna will be "purchased" by the non-profit-making general building, housing and settlement cooperative. This will build an empire with more than 20,000 apartments under the ÖGB-Bahner. The price is 180 million schilling. The capital values account for over 750 million schilling, but the value of the apartments is over 10 billion schilling. You tried to figure this out. The confidential informant also writes: The coalition parties, especially the ÖGB, benefit from the law gap, according to which an acquisition may only take place at the nominal value. One should not be deceived by the momentary rest. The action is also prepared. In the Supervisory Board of ESG Villach, loud railway tradesmen, such as Dr. Karl Hofsteller and Ing. Emil Maurer, both railways and from the Sparda area of Villach. They were elected to the Supervisory Board to carry out the action. Sparda Wien AG is a subsidiary of BAWAG. Ladies and gentlemen! Insurance companies and banks have lost nothing in this cooperative area at all, either directly or indirectly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our proposal for a deadline is intended to help stop this dispassion and this permanent abuse at last. Perhaps after three years he finally has the opportunity to be treated so that we can initiate a conversion which is urgently necessary and quite in the interests of the tenants.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11886	The next speaker is Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11908	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad to read in a newspaper that Haider is delighted to hear my plans explained at the Salzburg Club meeting. This shows that I am really lying with these things, but I am very careful. If Haider cheers, it's always a little tricky. You have to look carefully at whether you are right with that. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Praise from the highest point!]] I can also calm down colleagues Firlinger. Of course, we have had ten years of government responsibility in this country. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: 30 years!]] – You have spoken of ten years, so I will go into these ten years too. We have also designed housing policy in these ten years. Mr Firlinger! I can assure you that ten years ago the Socialist Group in Zell am See decided that 10,000 apartments should be built more per year. This decision has been fully adopted. Since then, we have built 10,000 additional apartments with all the builders in Austria. We have reached a state that allows us to discuss what we are discussing today at all. I agree that the time has now come for serious discussion of the loads in the apartments. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ten years ago we took the reserves away!]] Mr Haider! Mr Firlinger, who had not even been in your group at the time, addressed the basket money. On the application there is still Schöll on it, just so by the way. It still says Schöll on it, but Mr Firlinger was not there at that time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because you didn't treat it!]] - Wait! I'll talk about it right away. Mr Haider! They were not in the Building Committee at the time, and that is not your job. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I was not in the Building Committee!]] - No, I'm saying that. Mr Firlinger was there. At the time, it was in the Building Committee, which took place on 21 December. In November 1996, the Liberal Party submitted two applications, then drawn by the Commercial Council of Schöll. During the debate and the debate on these two requests – I have them here – there has been disagreement and ambiguity. Therefore, at the request of the Freedom Party, in particular Mr Firlinger, this request, which will now be excavated again – rightly excavated, I do not want to dispute – has been postponed. It was not the case that the government parties wanted to postpone, but Mr Firlinger has requested the postponement. [[Abg. May. Firminger: No, no!]] A delay was then also carried out in this form. But that's a formal point. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because we wanted to wait until Schöll comes back!]] - I'm not saying anything bad. I only mention the facts, Mr Haider. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Did I say anything else? – An adjournment was requested, and we have accepted it. The application therefore remains. That's right. That's the right situation I'm just giving back. I would now also like to say a few words about what it is all about. Our goal in this debate is – in this respect we are not even so far apart – that we simply have to make living cheaper, for a very simple reason: because the income of the population increases less than the housing costs. That is why we need to reunite this sheer, which opens up. If Mr Firlinger is talking about a basket money from the housing companies, then this is only indirectly right because the real basket money in this case is making the banks. This results from the fact that 10, 15 years ago loans and long-term loans were concluded between the housing companies and the banks and, of course, these loans are between 11 and 13 percent according to the interest rate landscape at that time and no longer fit into today's interest rate landscape. It is therefore urgently necessary that we now ask the housing companies to remember their social thoughts as quickly as possible. Some have already done so because of my calls I made in June and July last year. There must be a stop to reduce costs. Only the rate of interest may be up to 400, 500 s per month for some apartments, such as for that 80 square meter apartment addressed by colleagues Firlinger. That is, we have a political attitude. I would like to invite all political groups to help initiate the negotiations with the banks in such a way that they too are convinced that we are now living in another interest-rate landscape and that this will also be the case in the longer term. In any case, we are dealing with the three requests that we have prepared and completed and which are quite in line with the request made by the Freedom Party in 1996 because we are reducing the rents on the maintenance contribution, however it may be. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You have left this for so long!]] For example, in category A we think of about 34 S. You can get a house with that. The point is that we need to talk about conservation and improvement contributions in a general reduction, which you said in a press conference today. It is unnecessary to collect too much in this area if the maintenance of the house is anyway guaranteed. We are particularly concerned with the reduction of interest rates in favour of tenants in the equity of non-profit builders, in the case of bank loans and in the case of basic costs. It is also a question of achieving interest on the maintenance and improvement of houses and tenants, and of ensuring that interest does not flow into the general pot. We also want to make some changes in the rental sector.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12033	Please take note of the speaking time, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12049	I'm done right now, Mr President. – It is also important to me that we also reduce the cost of entry for the tenants by reducing the broker commission, so that young people can come to quiet apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12079	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Swimper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12100	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== On this point, Mr Eder, Mr Eder, the request for a deadline was put to sleep at the request of the liberals in the Building Committee. It was Mr Firlinger's own request that the request be postponed, which led to the fact that the request was not dealt with any further. As the chairman of the Committee on Construction, I can clearly see that there was no attempt at any meeting to put the request on the agenda. . I assume, Mr Klubobmann, that even in the presidency such a desire of the liberals has not been expressed since 1996. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not!]] So the request has slept at the request of the liberals. They were awakened – and I understand this too – by the battle call on the SPÖ club to the right of residence: "Forward comrades, it goes back! We want to reverse reforms in the right of residence!" [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] I admit, the battle call has been out loud and he had to wake up the sleeping liberals. Now the populists from the right and from the left to the living to speak – the election campaign is about to take place. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The red color is modern!]] However, I believe that the Austrians' housing problem should not be turned into an election topic, but it should be solved. We have worked for this, and we will continue to work for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have decided in 1994 and 1997 reforms on housing law, which have taken hold and functioned. And suddenly life comes into the housing market, suddenly the housing market works! Suddenly, there are price-damaging elements in the housing market, because not everything is done with price regulation, not everything with dirigism, but simply because the market can work. If, in other market segments, one would do what the socialists in part want, but now partly the liberals with this request by Schöll, Firlinger and Haider, then it would be nothing but to introduce fixed price schemes. If we had introduced price limits 30 years ago, the most primitive devices would probably cost 30 000 s today. But the market works thank God, and the devices have become cheaper. And that's how it's supposed to be in the living area. Of course, some problems need to be solved. For example, we must now ensure that the lower interest rates – this is a phenomenon of recent times – are passed on to the tenants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] However, we have a problem in this regard, Mr Smolle – now turned to the left and the right again – with the federal housing laws from 1983 and 1984. SPÖ and FPÖ will know who was in the government at the time, who has passed these laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Do you know what happens in this area when bank interest rates are reduced? – Then the grants fail, and the tenants pay a lot more. That's what you decided to do. We want to change that. Interest reductions – I clearly acknowledge – must be passed on! [[Abg. May. Stadler: How did the ÖVP behave at the time?]] – We had no interest-rate reductions before, this is a phenomenon of recent times. I repeat: Interest reductions must be passed on to tenants. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 15 years had no time for it!]] In your request, Mr Haider, there is no mention of this! There's no word about interest-rate cuts. We want to solve the housing problems for those looking for housing and for the tenants and not agree to the reputation of populism from the left and the right!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12212	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12233	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come back to reality from Walter Schwimmer's fairy tale hour and tell Mr Eder that we are really interested in a solution. It is, of course, incomprehensible if you now call for the conservation contributions to be reduced, while you have already been asked to do so in 1990 in an opinion of the Chamber of Labour, and in 1994 together with the ÖVP have decided to increase the conservation contributions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] – So it is already the question of how honestly these demands are meant. In Vienna's Landtag, on our prelude in 1996, which you quoted, a request was agreed by the Liberals and Social Democrats, which means that the proceeds will have to be reduced by 30 percent if the loans are repaid, as Mr Faymann himself promised. To this day, nothing has happened. The application has been decided since 1996. To date, nothing has happened in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] On the contrary: In the case of loans, residential loans, re-indebtedness has been made, which has led to a triple cost of interest and the tenant now has to pay a triple tax on interest. You can read this in the Court of Auditors' report on this subject. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Bures: You have no idea what is in Vienna!]] - Merciful woman! Allow me to keep talking, I only have a few minutes. Now I come to a core point that Mr Eder has really attracted. He said: We do not want the banks and the insurance companies to have the say in the housing sector. – Then I ask you, however, why, although the small professional, the builder, the castler is not allowed to participate in a housing cooperative or to be an organ, even though he is working for public contracts, but a bank or insurance company may well be the owner of a housing cooperative. How is it that, for example, the "New Homeland" – that is to say, if you look at the company's book – belongs to the social work of the trade union, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Bank Austria Aktiengesellschaft? How are you, Mr. Eder? – Is this your policy that you say here: Yes, the banks and insurance companies have lost nothing in the housing cooperatives!, while you at the same time catapult your house and court bank bank Austria into these non-profit cooperatives? There you have only one interest: to grant bank loans, which must then be paid at higher interest rates by the tenants. – That’s the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This can be continued, for example, to the Eisenstadt housing cooperative. The Raiffeisenbank Burgenland and the First Austrian are involved in this cooperative, which is the black half of the empire that it has directed there. Look at this! There you will find an overly high interest rate. And 1 per cent too much interest on the loans means that you could reduce the monthly rent for the individual tenant by 1 000 s. 1 percent interest per month brings 1000 S! – [[Abg. Eder: Mr Haider! That's not true! That's exaggeration!]] I have this from the revision association, Mr Eder! The housing cooperatives will probably know what they are saying. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] If you ask me what it's like in Lower Austria, I'll read to you about Lower Austria. ==References====External links== In January 1999, the Communication issued a communication on how high the interest rate on housing loans to cooperatives may be. We know today that the interest rate level is 3.5 to 3.75 percent in the short term and about 4.5% for mortgage loans. We agree on this. The country of Lower Austria – ÖVP friends – this is your competence, together with a red remnant – has for the year 1999 that the highest possible interest rate may be 6 percent. This is in the official document of Lower Austrian housing policy. That means, Eder's right, but we're right, too, if we say, Down with the interest rates! – But please, dear friends, you have this in your own field! Bank Austria is your red stronghold, the Raiffeisen Central Bank is your black stronghold, dear friends! Don't have the higher interest rates for your banks, but save the tenants from these high interest rates, which would lead to thousands of schilling rent reductions! That's our concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12331	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12353	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. It must be noted with regret that government policy seems to be under the motto: Give the FPÖ a chance again and again! It always gives the outside-right opposition an opportunity to profile, in questions in which it is factually right. That is why, as government parties, you have to ask yourself very slowly whether your government policy is really so good, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! We shall vote in favour of this deadline, which is quite clear. It's a matter from 1996, so it's long since due. Although Mr Eder said after the party meeting, something has to happen, I ask myself: Does he really have to wait for the party meeting with such a long-standing thing? We do not have the falling interest until yesterday, not just recently, Mr. Schwimmer, but we have been moving for a long time – even where the interest rates are already low, namely at the building savings banks. But you will not respond to it, in the hope that the citizen will not notice it, the tenant will not notice it. [[Abg. Eder: Once you have to say it!]] – What do you mean, you have to say it? – The citizen has nothing of your beautiful words, you have to do it, Mr colleague! The actions are important, not talking. Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, can speak! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is also necessary to ask the question of community benefit for the housing cooperatives. Is it really unprofitable to accumulate these assets and do nothing to do with them as waiting and speculating with them, ladies and gentlemen? Why are there these huge reserves of capital and of land? For what? Can you explain that to me? – This is in no relation to the liability these organisations and cooperatives have to fulfil, not even to the potential liability. What you have gathered there goes far beyond that, ladies and gentlemen. That's where the legislator is in demand. It's clear: We need to make a change, we may need to find a solution towards purchasing rents. Maybe we'll take a step further. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That's what we decided! There is, Mr Smolle!]] As far as the question of banks is concerned, you say that it is necessary to negotiate with the banks. Ladies and gentlemen! If you go and subtract the capital from the banks and say that we are only going more to the bank that is ready to negotiate, then the negotiation will be very short. If these amounts are deducted from the banks, then the banks will stir up because that hurts. This means that we can also proceed through the simple market mechanism. But, of course, you don't change anything if you want to support banks and insurances at the same time and cash the tenants because this is, so to speak, part of your own domestic power. If, as it were, the cock crows off the roof, then Mr. Eder suddenly comes up with it: Now elections are coming, and many people are tenants, many people are already sitting in a third-time apartment, where we have to do something as a government now. [[Abg. Eder: This is a nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something bothers me with the request of the liberals. It is said, for example, that over the years the tenant paid almost twice the fictitious purchase price for his social housing, but the apartment still does not belong to him. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Now I would have liked to know from you whether the tenants at the company "Free living" have now come into possession of their apartments. You should have written in the application: red, black or blue cooperatives. – So you also have to be self-critical, colleague Firlinger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I know. 2. In 1996, you have not yet known that Rosenstingl will be on and off. But at least with regard to your cooperative, you should have found: We will not act like the red and black cooperatives, ladies and gentlemen! In this sense: We have courage! Let us take courageous measures for the tenants! There are very many Austrians affected, especially those in need of social assistance from Austria who live in these so-called non-profit cooperative apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12433	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12454	Mr President. High house! Of course, we agree with this request for a deadline. Mr. Committeeobmann Swimmer! I think that even if, for certain reasons, an opposition party breaks down on its own initiative, it would be a good idea for the committee members of the Government to look at the list of applications. There are so many things in which the opposition, admittedly, does not run permanently storm and does not constantly demand: This must be on the agenda, and that must be on the agenda, because we know that it is mostly in vain, and then we will concentrate on the most urgent. But for the purpose of checking from time to time what is to come on the agenda, I believe that the Committee members are primarily responsible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] Mr. Committeeobmann Swimmer! If you think that the laws on housing rights have worked so wonderfully, I think you are living in a different country and in a different city than I am. As I go through the city, I already see a few meters away from the big business streets a moaning emptiness, locked business venues. I hear the complaints of small traders who say that they are no longer able to cope with the de facto release of rents at all. There is a huge dissatisfaction, for example, in the field of commerce. I don't know if you hear that too. I hear that already, and I see that too. When I go through the city, I see more homeless people than I was when I was a child. At that time society was generally poorer, but so much in visible misery did not exist. I think there is a huge need for action, but from the high horse of the government parties, one does not seem to perceive it. The misery has become tremendous! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like If you compare the need for an apartment with the need for color televisions and the price level of flats and color televisions, then I must say that I find this almost obscene. I do not think that is comparable from the consequences and from the need. Imagine what it means to have no apartment, and imagine what it means not to have an electric device! If you think about it, you as a social politician will no longer be able to make such a comparison seriously! I find this comparison irrational. [[Abg. Smolle: I have an intermediate call: The TV has become half cheaper!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You didn't understand my comparison! I would like to see a development in rents like on TV!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like They say: Let us develop the housing markets! – I am throwing that before you in every form, but also in the social democracy – you say: Let us look at what the market is doing, and if it does not fit, then we can act later on. – That is, to transform a basic need into a social experimentation field, and I think that is totally responsible! – I would like to tell you that in every form. Ladies and gentlemen! As I have said, I agree, of course, but I do not follow this request from the intention, because if you think that financed objects should no longer be used for any profit, I ask you: Does this apply only to the red, black and blue housing cooperatives, or does it not apply to the private market as a whole? The old buildings, often inadequate in the standard, have been financed for a long time. I ask in every form: Shouldn't there be limits there too? Or let's say, The market will judge it already!? – And those who cannot afford the market interest will then find themselves again in the "Grüft" or in any parish or on the street. [[Call the ÖVP:Communist!]] – If you think that a reasonable rental arrangement is communist, then you will demask your actual desire, namely that you pay very close attention to what is happening in one area, while in the other area there is to be unlimited arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12510	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12526	As I said, I think there is a need for action. The rent rate should fall, but a differentiation of this kind I cannot understand in the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12556	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution, which has been requested to report to the Building Committee on the request of Members Schöll and Co-operatives for the revision of the Law on the Conditutiveness of the Law on the reduction of the cooperative rents on the conservation contribution for a period of up to 24 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12592	The next item is the brief debate on the request by the honourable Members. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Application 428/A for the establishment of a framework that facilitates the creation of businesses, a period of time until 22 October. This is the first time we've seen it in the European Union. After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are known. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12620	Mr President. High house! ==References== March 1997 – that is almost two years ago – we have tabled our key proposal on the framework conditions for the creation of new businesses. ==References== In October, we made a further number of requests dealing with the same subject. This has now been given new up-to-date status in the debate on the employment situation. ==References== A subcommittee was set up last October, which unfortunately has not yet been established. So, obviously, we are not able to bring together two things. We talk out of the window, so to speak – I understand the clause of the Social Democrats in Salzburg. Mr Kostelka told us that he had created 30 000 jobs. – I didn’t know that the SPÖ club now has 30,000 new employees. Where are the 30,000 new employees of the SPÖ club? – And the ÖVP explains to us that one can only create work through economy. Why do you, ladies and gentlemen, speak of the Social Democrats and the People's Party, always speak out of the window only if the requests that deal with this question are already in the house? If a subcommittee has already been set up, why does this subcommittee not meet? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Faith In fact, it is a policy to announce to Parliament the window of the House, outside of the television camera, what we are doing, but to do exactly the opposite here. . And exactly what the Austrian People's Party calls for is set out in these requests, but they will not be dealt with. Why don't you do it? – You can also change it and make it different, but talk about it at the Hohe Haus! Don't just talk out the window and don't make people an X for a U! It's annoyed! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The number of unemployed may be – I hope it will not be – in January, but I am afraid it will exceed the 300 000 limit. The reduction in growth, which we are experiencing mainly in exports, and the slow demand for private consumption, do not leave any new expectations for 1999, especially no improvement. The permanent crisis of financial markets brings uncertainty. We will certainly not reach the growth rates of 1998 at 3.3 percent in 1999. We should be happy if we are over 2%. Employment is a concern to us all here in the House. The Social Democrats, the large government group says we need an employment impact assessment. – Do you not know that you have already rejected this in the House? We Liberals have introduced a law impact assessment law that wants exactly the same thing you want with your employment impact assessment. What is it about? – It is about not burdening too many excessive costs to the citizens – say less private consumption – or businesses – of higher labour costs. We have asked you to discuss the impact of the laws on households and businesses. You refused. Mr Klubobmann Khol told me, in this debate, that he was willing to talk about the consequences of the costs to countries and communities, but he did not deal with the budgets and businesses here. – So you demand what is already in the House. They call out to the window and are not ready to start the work here! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The same applies to the Austrian People's Party. She said the wise sentence: Only the economy creates jobs. – But what good is this sentence for us if you do not want to deal with the proposals that lie in the house and deal with this very question? We believe that it is really a pity for time to present to people in this country an X for a U, to scatter sand into their eyes, even when elections are instigating. I call on you to begin with the serious work, namely in the house where laws are made – and this is not the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, and it is not the Chamber of Labour of Austria, and not the Trade Union Confederation, but laws are made here in Parliament all the time – by the ladies and gentlemen who are elected by the population! However, the negotiations on this need to take place. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In his important novel "The Sun Darkness", Arthur Köstler coined the term "controlled schizophrenia". - That's exactly what I'm throwing before you. You have a division of consciousness in relation to what you say to people, and in relation to your behavior here in the House. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to consider the issues you know that they are up and that they are the prerequisites for creating new jobs. There is too little demand in private consumption. Investment demand, which has been very good over the last two years, will decrease in 1999. Public demand is limited by the debt of public households. There's no room left. You - I told you this one hour ago in the debate - increased the country's debt five times faster than economic performance in the last 33 years. There's no room left. Also the exports that brought us very good economic growth in 1997 and 1998 were no more than a pension for EU accession. We used this pension. We have reached the accessible level of exports. There, where we have further growth fields, namely in the area of enlargement of the European Union, both the People's Party – I remember with greys what Mr Pröll from Lower Austria told us about – and the mandates of the Social Democratic Party are to a great extent hesitant. In Austria, however, we must be those who are moving forward the enlargement of the European Union, because we are most likely to open up the new markets that our economy needs and thus get new jobs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The additional employment we want and need can ultimately only be created through demand – demand to which companies have to answer. Why do our small and medium-sized enterprises no longer grow? – 50 percent of employees work in enterprises with less than 99 employees and 50 percent in enterprises with more than 100 employees. Why do small companies no longer grow with one to four employees? Why are they frustrated? Why are they not willing to take any further entrepreneurial risk? What has this Federal Government done wrong in the framework for many decades, so that small and medium-sized enterprises no longer want to grow, so that these people, who are the "Germ" of a society, are not looking for further customer demand, do not take further risk? Employment in a company is basically not a business objective. She can't be either. Employment in a company is a consequence of the demand a company has. Give the companies the right opportunities within the meaning of the Austria location! Give them hope! Do what you always say in connection with training, do what is necessary in research, in technology, in innovation, so that more entrepreneurship can take place in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! An offensive employment policy is only possible with a reasonable location policy on the basis of a functioning social security. The focus of the new foundations is on our requests, which are not dealt with, in our requests, which have been in the House for a year and a half, two years, which have been held against my vote in a subcommittee, because I have already foreseen this fate, in our requests which are not being discussed today. We ask you, therefore, if you do not already agree with the content of the requests – which I understand, because you do not think otherwise – to agree to at least a time limit which obliges us to go into this debate here in the House by February 1999 at the latest and to say what we can really do for employment in Austria, apart from words to the window.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12737	The next speaker was Mr Kurt Heindl. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12758	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter! I have listened carefully to you now. If one summarizes and analyses, one can say that the years 1997 and 1998 have gone very well, that is, of course the pension for EU accession. Because 1999 – not only in Austria – eclipses occur at the economic horizon, the two government parties are immediately held responsible, although we do not know how the year 1999 actually develops. But because it is cloudy, the government and the government parties are immediately at fault. But you can't do it that easy. I am of your opinion that we should never stand still and that we must always make improvements. There is no discussion at all about this, and we do not need to talk about it. I have taken along the most important documents on the issues you have raised today. Only if I read all the subject of you, I wouldn't get through at five minutes. We've got ourselves last time – that was your urgent wish; Mrs. Tichy-Schreder will correct me – agreed on 16 or 18 requests for apprentices as a whole. We have now decided on a subcommittee, which you have correctly said, which we will establish next week, and then we have an Economic Committee. I am telling you that, of course, we also want to talk about it. But you say – I already have one to make it carefully – a little unpleasant formulation with you – on the one hand: Let's not talk out of the window, but let's discuss the problems!, and on the other hand, you say: Let's make a deadline immediately! Let me give you a few examples of your requests. Mr Peter! I think you think it is serious that you can talk about individual things. I'll tell you, we can talk. This has already been said to you by Mr Nürnberger on the subject of social reduction, on worker protection: We will listen to what you say, but we will not agree on the things you propose. But let's talk about it. At least we hear what you imagine. Maybe there are a few things that are acceptable. In the context of the horizontal tax justice between financial and property capital, we should also talk about estimated funds, which is right, I believe. But I am not entirely of your opinion on what we should be talking about in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But I am also in favour of speaking in principle; at least we can structure the discussions which are undoubtedly important in individual areas. The last time we discussed a subject, and I am only waiting for more concrete proposals in this respect than those I have heard so far. I told you I'm here, too. They say: It would be important to abolish the Sundays and holidays, and we do not need to do so, so that we can solve the problem of local services. Mr Peter! We should not talk about it, but speak honestly and seriously, and that is what we want to do in the Subcommittee. We will really take time to hear from you what proposals you are making. I could say to Mr Petrovic the same thing I told you last time. If it were the same as you say that we only need to abolish the rents at locals and then it would work, then we would do it that way. But I have brought you an example where they even did it. But this Greißler in Stammersdorf, too, unfortunately – I regret it – had to lock up because the shopping habits changed very easily. I'm telling you, I'm your opinion: It is necessary to change the rules on public transport! I have just said this to Mrs Tichy-Schreder and the Minister of Economic Affairs a few weeks ago. Unfortunately, this regulation has been missed. I was critical of this from the very beginning. I believe that the implementation of our proposal in the law is correct, but I believe that the regulation is counterproductive. That's my opinion. Mrs Tichy-Schreder disagrees. Let's talk about it! But you can't do it that easy, just say: If we stand out here, we criticize everything that is bad, and then we set a deadline, and then the problem is solved! – I can only say that I have another access to problem solutions. I think we should sit down and talk. Let us try to make formulations and legal changes in the economic sector, which we will then discuss, and we hope they will be more effective. However, to criticize, Mr Peter, that we are "speaking beyond the window" does not solve the problems – neither economically nor specifically. [[Abg. May. Peter: Let us make a subcommittee!]] Let's do it! I say to you here and today: Let me speak next week! We will agree to an appointment as soon as possible, whenever we have a committee appointment. Next week we will make a subcommittee to which your 16 or 18 requests will come. I am convinced, however, that - and if you honestly believe it, you will be right - that, after this subcommittee debate, whether we are going to lead them for five or seven hours, we will not be able to produce proposals for solutions here and will be able to present them in a serious manner. That's why I'm saying: Let us make a subcommittee appointment. My promise is that we will have it, but not limited! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12794	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12815	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to speak on this motion for a resolution, and I would also like to say a few words. Firstly, we agree that job security and job creation are the most important issue, that is not a question. Secondly, I would like to say: We need people who are willing to make themselves independent at all. This requires a different or increased entrepreneurial attitude. This has to start at school and continue until the parents' home. It must be said to everyone that it is important to have entrepreneurs, because they alone can create jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They fulfil an essential role in society. If I deal with the points of your motion for a resolution, I note that many of the demands have already been implemented, which means that some others are unrealistic – I am still going to address it – and that some of our proposals, which we have been making for a long time, have been taken over or written down. I'm glad, too. [[Abg. May. Peter: Sometimes we think ourselves, but only rarely!]] Mr Peter! I say to the Chamber that we have not waited for the motion for a resolution to become active. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce has already begun to set up activities in this area years ago, because from today on it is impossible to start companies and one cannot develop programmes for them either. We set up the Young Economy Unit at the Chamber of Commerce in 1993/94 and began to set up targeted activities consistently. I can tell you that it has had a positive effect on promoting business creation. I should like to mention a number of these. In 1994, there were some 7,000 business start-ups, and in 1997 there were already about 14 000. We already know that there is a difference in size, that is not a question, but I must say, for example, in 1997 we carried out 12,000 discussions in the framework of the "young economy" which lasted between one hour and three days. In addition, we have made some 50,000 information contacts in a year that lasted between a quarter of an hour and an hour. So you see, you have to do a lot of things to get along at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Let me focus on some other activities of the "young economy". We have been with this consistent preparation, for example, since 1. In January 1997, the foundational savings were implemented. Since 1997 we have offered a guarantee model of the BÜRGES bank. We have created founding funds with the FGG and Bank Austria. We held founding weeks throughout Germany in October 1997 and June 1998. We have held campaigns for independence in four federal states. With the merger of business founders with experienced, retired entrepreneurs or managers under the title "Rent a Rentner", we have created the so-called young economic exchange. It's running very well right now. We conducted an information event in Austria last year, which was very well attended and has also brought success. We have worked with schools within the framework of the foundings of junior companies, i.e. schools have set up experimental firms. We have also organised events such as "A Heart for Founders", in which for example documents have been awarded to people who have been particularly committed to business start-ups. We have also organised young business days with the award of young entrepreneurs' prices. All of these were targeted events to bring something forward in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to address the individual points of your motion for a resolution. This could be done, but I miss the time. In any event, we want to be a representative of the majority of the members in the future, and we will continue to rely on the Master's exam, even if you say that it is a disability. Because we still rely on quality! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! Quality is especially important for a small country in order to prevail in international competition. This quality is constantly being praised, and therefore we will continue to rely on quality in the future to become even more competitive and competitive in foreign markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12882	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12903	Mr President. High house! It is undisputed that it is the smaller and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs. We have already been able to attend a debate in this House today on employment. It should also be noted, however, that since 1954 we have had the highest unemployment rate in this Republic. It is necessary to set up measures and create framework conditions. It is also necessary not only to limit itself to introducing state programmes in order to beautify the unemployment statistics, but to be able to say: This does not look as bad as in other countries of the European Union, for example. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Maderthaner, led the work of the Chamber of Commerce. I must insist on this: This alone cannot be done if the political and economic framework for job creation, the creation of new businesses, the continuation of business ventures and the acquisition of business ventures are not in agreement! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not enough to inform only. This can only be part of the task of the Chamber of Commerce. One thing is amazing, although I am convinced that Mr Maderthaner knows: He led the year 1997 and mentioned how many new companies were founded. However, it has been kept silent that in 1998, when the first three quarters – the figures are on the table – already a 10 percent reduction in the number of newly logged enterprises had been recorded compared to 1997. This is not necessarily a reason to be optimistic about the job situation and the economic situation. Ladies and gentlemen! As one of the most recent reports of the European Union, Austria is in the 11th place with regard to economic freedom. That is, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece are in front of Austria. This is also no reason for optimism. We are still in a regulatory jungle and observe a regulatory rage that is inappropriate in the way in which Austria, the labour market and the economic situation are located. Approval procedure in Austria lasts 18 months, in the Federal Republic of Germany compared with seven months. It is to be called upon – and this should be done by those, as I believe, who are finally attacking unfortunate red-black government coalitions – that conditions must be created, which will also allow the economy to re-establish and actually create jobs again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This includes, ladies and gentlemen, the reduction of the tax and tax burden and the simultaneous reduction of so-called tax privileges, the reduction of additional labour costs, the tax relief of non-compulsory profits and the increase of the R&D quota. In particular, as far as facilitating business start-ups is concerned, it is absolutely necessary that there should at last be a corresponding shattering of the trade order! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must also be borne in mind that red tape is being reduced to reduce administrative periods of procedure, that risk capital for companies will be provided accordingly, that a removal of what I believe will be carried out at the Chamber of Commerce, that the Chamber of Commerce 1 and 2 will be reduced at last, and that, in the end, there will be a reduction of the inadequate and excessive bureaucracy. Then there will also be new business start-ups, and then the situation on the labour market will relax and improve. It is almost a threat to understand when Vice-Cancecian bowl announces in an APA message, he sees at least 100 000 new jobs by 2002. – I remember, in this context, the accession of Austria to the EU. At that time 60 000 to 100,000 new jobs were promised. There is also nothing good to expect if the "Press" of Monday, 18th century, is published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. January 1998, for example, it should be noted that when it comes to the approval of plant operators, experts fear that the revision of this plant law will not make it easier for companies. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government! They would have a lot to do and should not be limited to giving 15 or 10 point programmes to everyone who knows nothing new in themselves, given the forthcoming election. The only thing is not enough!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12990	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13011	Mr President. High house! It was impressive to listen to the President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, who, unfortunately, left the hall, because the way in which he fulfils his mandate and represents the interests of the economy, he has presented us here today. That was really impressive. He has said – I quote it literally so that it does not just appear in his text but in the Stenographical Protocols again – that he will continue to represent the "majority of the members". – He said that – literally! [[Abg. May. Peter: Then why do the others have to pay?]] I think that is interesting because as President of the Chamber, I thought he represented the interests of all members. That's what I've thought so far. I did not notice, but I thought he at least believed that he represented the interests of all. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: No hair clefts!]] He has now expressly said that he represents the majority of the members, i.e. he appears to represent the majority who have elected him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreder]] I think this is bad because the language is treacherous on this point. Moreover, if he always uses the term "young economy" in the Chamber of Commerce, although he knows very well that the term "young economy" is a trademark of the ÖVP, and if he also tells me what the "young economy" is doing – yes, now in the Chamber, but you sometimes confuse it; [[New call for tender Tichy Schreder]] You have used the same term twice – and if you know which post you receive from there, if you are also suitable for companies that are chamber members, then I mean: If this is to be an initiative, it is a shame! This costs money, which may employ printing companies, paper-producing companies and even envelope producers. You also need a few people to carry it all out. This already has a certain employment effect, but it is a very moderate re-route profitability associated with it. My colleague has argued that it would be time to set a deadline for applications which have been in this House for a period of one and a half years or nearly two years, which have been allocated to a subcommittee, with 22 years. March – from today to two months. Since I am talking about some sort of upset process, as Mr Heindl has done, I really cannot understand. What happens if we say, after a year and a half, that we would like to set a two-month deadline so that the subcommittee meeting, which has been promised today – at least by Mr Heindl – takes place? But unfortunately, if the President does not do so, it will not benefit much. I also know Mr Heindl. He can say that because it would have to all appear on this date. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Were you with our committees? Do you know how we're doing?]] I have been to your committee before. I know how it goes. It is a very friendly place, but it does not seem to be the case when setting up subcommittee dates. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Mag. Peter sends me a letter with 19. Where he wants a subcommittee! A deadline is coming today!]] – But Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! The letter he certainly wrote with date 19. January - I don't doubt - he only wrote after a year and a half! He did not make any requests, Mrs Tichy-Schreder wrote a letter at the same time, and at the same time filed a request for a deadline, but for a long time – the older colleagues will remember – he submitted a request. Then he waited a long time, and other means, such as personal conversations, telephone calls, referendums and so on, have been exhausted, but they have been fruitless. Later, he wrote a letter, and so that the whole thing gets a certain formality, we put this deadline request, because that is a parliamentary instrument. A letter is just a polite gesture. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: From 19.1., today is the 20.]] They were therefore not afraid of this request. They were able to expect us to make a request, because after a year and a half, one writes a letter because one is polite, but one also makes a request because one wants to prevail. That's the actual aspect. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you are offended or offended by the deadline request, we shall also take note of that. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: I don't feel hurt!]] There's nothing you can do. For example, when I wrote him a letter in my capacity as a member of the Chamber, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, told me that he did not place any value on letters from outside – he had formulated it differently – because he did not notice that a member of the Chamber had written to his president. He thought that since I am a Member of the National Council, I cannot be a member of the Chamber at the same time. – I think that is strange because he is President and MEP. I mean, these functions are increasingly incompatible. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We shall therefore now enrich the inconsistency debate with the question of whether it makes sense for elected representatives of a public law body to inform us at the same time here in the National Council that they do not even represent all their members, but only the majority. That was worth this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13165	The next speaker is Mrs Monika Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, every debate on time-limits is also a debate on the work here in the House. In fact, Mr Heindl has a good idea of talking about an overworked action in eleven requests that exist for two years and whose deadline is set for debate. This can only be said by one Member who has never experienced what it is like to act out of the opposition role. Mr Heindl! You have never experienced it in your entire parliamentary life – like all SPÖ Members here – to act out of the opposition role, but still want to seriously exercise the profession, office or function of a Member or a Member. For all of us, all 183 Members here are elected – and not only the officials of the various chambers, whose task of course it is also to work for employment policy. I know that Mr Maderthaner does not need this subcommittee. He does not need Parliament to demonstrate and use its power. And that employment debates and discussions take place in the area of government and in the social partners' bodies everywhere, only in the House where the laws are actually passed, is, in my view, a democratic scandal, but it is obvious to everyone that it has become so commonplace that there is hardly anyone else. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] There have been eleven applications for two years. And the only thing that appeals to the representatives of the two major parties is to speak of a hasty reaction! That's really very, very cool. Last year you told us that it was so difficult to set up committee dates, because you had the EU Presidency for half a year. We had to take a lot of account of the ministers' appointments, because they were a lot on the road. Well, that was the first presidency, there was really a lot to do, one wanted to profile. So the reason was the time pressure. The opposition had to wait. – Now the election year has been launched and obviously it is again very difficult to find an appointment. The Greens will, of course, agree to this deadline, as we agree with all the requests for deadlines, because we believe that, if applications remain for half a year, a three-quarters or, as in this case, two years, they are probably more than ready for discussion. To the content only so much: I looked at the requests of the series. I am not in the same opinion as the Liberal Group on all the points proposed here in the eleven different requests. But on some points it is far more than overdue to discuss this in the Committee, especially when it comes to discussing, in one of the applications, the founding initiatives of companies through procedural concentrations throughout Austria. We all know that Minister Farnleitner has commissioned a study, including Mr Schwarzer, and that we have been discussing for years how to concentrate procedures on the one hand, but, on the other hand, we have not at the same time reduced control functions, even though environmental standards have not been reduced and, above all, we have not reduced citizens' participation opportunities, which has happened several times in recent years. We Greens never thought that operating plant permits should last 18 months. In some areas, the process of concentration could go much faster, while at the same time focusing on control and, of course, improving infrastructure in the relevant authorities. Without reducing environmental standards, an acceleration of procedures from my point of view, even from an ecological point of view, would not be a problem at all. It would be exciting and interesting to discuss all these points – including the study commissioned by the Minister of Economic Affairs with taxpayers – here in the House, where this belongs and not only in the coalition bodies or the social partners. The Greens will, of course,, especially for democratic hygiene reasons, very much agree with these deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13251	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. We shall come to the vote and I would ask you to take the seats. The deadline request of Mag. Helmut Peter is formulated to vote on an application now and to vote on the remaining ten time-limits after completion of the agenda. We therefore come to the vote on the request, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to report to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 428/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create a framework that facilitates the creation of businesses a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a deadline to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The remaining time-limitation proposals will, as has been said, be voted in a separate vote after completion of the agenda. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13297	We are now entering the brief debate on the request of Mr Öllinger and Mr Comrades, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the request 504/A concerning a federal law amending the KUZUG and the Karenzgeldsgesetz (KGG), a period of time until 23. ==References== Here again, the vote on this request for a time limit will be taken after the requested debate has ended. The first speaker has 10 minutes of speaking time available. It is this honourable Member's oillinger as an applicant. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13325	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the continuation of the almost infinite history of an application, which one would like to say, of which one really does not have to lose more than a few words, that is a matter of course. The women who are concerned about this, namely the single mothers who cannot or do not want to mention the name of the child father, have the right to increased karenz money, but we have already discussed it several times here in this House, and the arguments put forward against it have changed quite a bit. I would remind you, for example, that we have heard here in plenary or in committee as one of the arguments against this request, especially on the part of the EIA – in fact only from the EIA: If we were to give these single women an increased amount of karenz money, then we would not be able to return the money later, even if we were to write into the law that they had to repay it. We will not get the money back because these women will never be able to repay it. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] And this argument that has been put forward in the past is enough to reveal itself alone. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true, the argument! I never used it!]] For it is, as I believe, rightly assumed, Mr Feurstein that these women are in a very bad situation, either in a particular or in a material way, which may not improve even after the end of the karenz period. But what does that mean, Mr Feurstein? On the one hand, your party chairman and your clubman would like to be surrounded by families, with little children who will then be lovable, to whom books, in which the party president has painted nice drawings, will be handed in. A child-friendly party, a family-friendly party! On the other hand, when it comes to helping specific family groups, namely the single parent with their children, or to making it even clearer to put them in a position to choose the child at all, the full hardness of the ÖVP will be felt. No, no, no, These children should be punished. Because there the fatherless society threatens – that was also an argument on the part of the ÖVP. In the meantime it is no longer used, Mr Feurstein, we know, because a lot has now happened. Mr Bartenstein said that he also wanted to change this provision, and Mrs Rauch-Kallat also said at a meeting of the Women's Alliance that this was also one of those you wanted to change. [[Abg. Smoking callat: Of course!]] Of course, Mrs Rauch-Kallat says! But then you have to agree to this improvement. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: If all other demands are also met!]] If you continue to insist on the one against the other and only want to implement the maximum variant, we will not continue to take a step that serves the interest of the women concerned. We will not move forward, and that is your risk and your responsibility, which you, as a family party, also have to bear towards the voters. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I would like to say something that I mentioned on the occasion of an earlier debate in this room – Mr Feurstein, at the time, has placed or referred to an interlocutory call in his own speech – namely that all the advisory bodies, all the advisory organizations, from the "Action Life" to the Caritas, have called for from the ÖVP. Mr Feurstein has firmly contradicted me and said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Go with me to one of these advice points and let's look at that! Mr Feurstein! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Yes! Let's go!]] I'll read you a letter from the "Action Life". The "Action Life" addressed the following letter to us regarding the demand for an increased care allowance for women who do not call the father of the child, and also authorized us to present this letter: "Dear Member, thank you very much for your letter on the matter above. We fully share your view. From our experience it is exactly as you describe it. Many women who would specifically need this increased karenz money will be punished by the current regime." - Punishment! This is now a highlight of me, Mr Feurstein, and I shall come back to it. – "We have also already addressed this problem at the ÖVP and have unfortunately not found any hearings." – Just as Mrs Moser does not lend me her ear now, although she will soon speak to this point. – "But you can use our communication at any time and say that we are with you in this point of view." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! The decisive thing is that the "action life" is not only with the greens of a sense, but with about 170 Members – I would think – of this House. Nevertheless, the remaining Members are able to prevent this House from implementing this decision and thus preventing further criminal action. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is the crucial point, and that is why I said that I will come back to the punishment again. There are proposals on the part of the ÖVP, which go towards the extension of the pension opportunities. There are proposals on the part of the SPÖ, which go towards improvement, especially for single-parents, but also for the extension of the pay-as-you-go possibilities. There are proposals of the liberals, of the liberals and of course also of the Greens. The present proposal distinguishes all of these proposals in so far as a punishment action has been taken on this issue. This is also made clear in the letter of the "Action Life" and we have already informed you of this on other occasions. A very specific group, in this case those single parents who do not call the name of the child father, are being punished by measures of the savings package elsewhere. Now we are talking about the single parents who cannot or do not want to call the name of the child father. They're being punished. And it is your responsibility, the responsibility of the ÖVP, that you are still saying about this punishment action, even though your Members and your ministers, for the most part, as well as the organizations in your environment, in your run-up, all say the same, namely that it is a punishment action at the expense of those who need to be reversed. Ladies and gentlemen! Where is he? Courage of the ÖVP Deputies? Have you, at last, the courage to defend yourself against your clubman, who says that this is not possible! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] He might want to negotiate the Semmering base tunnel against this solution – or whatever it is injunctified with, I don't know. They are only willing to implement all the demands at once, but in no way demands for groups that are particularly hard on it. That's your clubman's position. – Do you have the courage to share this position, which, as I know, is shared by the ÖVP delegates as well as by all the other Members of Parliament, here by your voice to help break through! To the address of the SPÖ, which makes it very comfortable and observes the events on the part of the ÖVP, I would like to say: A party that says several times that it is for this, but cannot, a party that is the strongest party of this House, a party that would have the opportunity to implement it with three other parties – in fact three and a half parties – a party that does not assume this responsibility, thus does not take responsibility as a leading party in that country. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I know you're going to say again today that you'd like and want to, but it's not going! Last time Mrs Reitsamer said: This is going too quickly, but we cannot call on a social committee to do so. [[Abg. May. Peter: Very slowly, my colleague, step by step!]] But in the meantime, a meeting of this committee has taken place. The time has expired, but nothing has changed except that more and more Members and people in the public, including ministers, declare that they will share this demand. The bow goes up to your women's minister, who has said that this has to be implemented quickly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Now you have the opportunity to implement this quickly by agreeing to the deadline. Have a little courage, leave the electoral arena and help the affected women! This would also be a policy task.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13446	Mrs Silhavy has now come to speak. As with all other speakers, she has a speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13468	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! The election arena obviously left you right now when you left the speaker's desk. In contrast to you – perhaps you have missed this in the meantime – I have already spoken at the first reading of your request on this subject. You did not lose a single word on your own request at first reading. [[Abg. Oils: Please?]] [[Abg. May. Peter: What did he say?]] Mr Oellinger, you can do so in the minutes of the 88. Read session. If you don't know, I can tell you. You have not lost a word about it, and I think that also makes your proposal for deadlines appear in a somewhat strange light today. But I understand. There was today a current hour in the early days on the subject of "improvement of care opportunities". In doing so, ÖVP Minister Bartenstein clearly reminded himself that he was also a father. He probably thought of the wolf from the story with the seven jokes when he wanted to make his "carence money for all" the media tasty. However, he left the House with this indigestible broth alone, because, after his election speech, he has left the house, at least the hall, as soon as possible. I understand you very well, Mr Oellinger, if, on the basis of this current hour and after the appearance of Mr Bartenstein, you are speaking to some of the Members of the VP in the Committee on Social Affairs on 17 November. In the first reading of your request, Mr Feurstein, however, is quite skeptical of the fact that the signals of some ÖVPs, the reality of life, as you have just carried out in your own speech, are actually being implemented. [[Abg. Oils: You should take note of it, that's enough for me!]] I understand your doubts. And that was also a reason why our Minister Prammer said today – and very clearly – that there will be no 12-point programme without a solution for the single-parents. She said this very clearly today in the early days! [[Abg. Oillinger: Start with a dot!]] Yeah, we're already there! We don't need to talk about the content anymore, I think. We have already said in the committee and at the first reading that it is clear that we reject the punishment of women who do not choose the form of life which the EIA and, in part, the FPÖ imagine. It is only about strengthening the role model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] Please read what your colleagues have said about this. It's horrendous! We have been promoting equality of life for many years, and we ourselves have tabled a proposal, namely the 753/A proposal, which has exactly this problem and a possible solution on the subject. [[Abg. Oillinger: He was only later!]] That was one of the reasons, Mr Oellinger, for the reason that we were at the Social Committee meeting on 17 February. Last November, this request was postponed if you remember. That means we agreed... [[Abg. Oils: That wasn't the reason!]] Of course! We agreed that it would be time for the ministers concerned to negotiate this 12-point programme. [[Abg. Oilies: You want to pub!]] Please, I have made this request. [[Abg. Oillingers: You're afraid of the vote!]] No, no, no, We have tabled the proposal. Of course, we want to vote on those issues where we can achieve a majority. What is the point of voting if you do not have a majority in favour? Mr Oellinger, we are not in opposition! We bear responsibility, and we also need to implement these things. [[Abg. Oillingers: We have a broad majority: Free, Liberal, Green, SPÖ!]] Of course, we don't have it as easily as you do. It's clear to me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is precisely because we have to implement these things that we cannot join this deadline proposal either. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The single-parents are worth less to you than the dental crowns!]] I hope, however, that you will take your work as seriously as you do in the future. It is not just about making cheap polemics here, but about actually achieving something for those concerned. So you should speak to your requests at first reading!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13651	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, we will not agree to the deadline proposal, but not because we are already in the electoral arena, but because we have recently found very good solutions to the problem by shattering entire packages. [[Abg. Oils: Surprising!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Surprise!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Saving packages especially!]] We therefore do not allow the package to be broken down into separate parts in this case, but remain in this process. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Whole savings packages!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The savings package you have to answer!]] The ÖVP has good priorities! Those who do care and education must be recognized as valuable services. If these jobs, namely the care and education work, are not occupied if children do not have a fixed reference in the first phase of socialisation, if they do not experience love and security, they cannot pass them on to the next generations. Without emotional and physical security, the risk of children becoming increasingly obnoxious and drug addictive and falling into crime increases. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does this have to do with the application? It's about money!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] For the rehabilitation of traumatized children we need millions more schilling and that is never and never our intention. So who's supposed to get into the money? – All mothers and all fathers who do this work, and on their own! Today, 89 percent of the rent money is already paid, the remaining 11 percent are also expected to receive it for this valuable work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: We are not talking about the karenz money for everyone now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Thema misses!]] These 11 percent are divided into 7 percent of students, students and housewives, and 4 percent of self-employed women. These are therefore to be enjoyed by the State, even if they are not necessarily sufficient for living. [[Abg. Oellinger: You should talk to the request!]] It is to be looked around the world where there is still that, nowhere! This is also eligible for funding. In Austria we have a budget pot for this, namely the family compensation fund! [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes then give the money finally!]] Only family benefits are to be paid out of this. And now that it has been consolidated, let us not let anyone take away the cream from it again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Are the single-parents supposed to take off the ram? Did you mean that?]] We've been thinking about who needs these money most. Who needs this support most? They are the young mothers with children and without income. – Ladies from the SPÖ! [[Abg. May. Posch: And we gentlemen?]] In your popular desire, a minimum of existence is required for all, at more than double heights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The protection of people who otherwise have no minimum of existence, no existence, is also your horse! We find no more needy people than a mother with a child and without income. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please see the topic!]] Do you really want to take this bite away from the student? Do you want to fail the little independent tailor's support? The current operating aid hardly covers their health insurance contributions. [[Abg. Mr Oellinger: Can you say something about the request, Mrs Deputies?]] It is also, for the first time, a useful proposal to reduce additional labour costs! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: On the matter!]] Unemployment insurance would save 2.5 billion schilling, thus reducing the additional wage costs by 0.5 percent to ensure jobs and to promote the competitiveness of our businesses. [[Abg. Oillinger: We are talking about the request!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's not the current hour, it's already over!]] The ÖVP does not forget the working woman either. On the contrary, we are pave the way to make family and work more compatible. There must be freedom of choice! Perhaps consensus is easier to reach if, instead of using the term karenz money, we go to the negotiations with the expression "care money". [[Abg. May. Posch: What, what?]] Family policy is not a question of ideology, it is an answer to the needs of life. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Well, for our children, for our future generations: Yes to life, yes to the child, yes to the karenz money for all as a requirement of a life policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13995	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After the praises of my previous speakers back to the harsh reality, I would say, and on request 504/A of the Greens. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Here we are!]] But I also have to pick up a little bit. In 1993, I visited with the former Foreign Minister of ÖVP, Alois Mock, Paris. I was asked by a French colleague, who was once even Minister of Defense, what we would have been in Austria for a form of government at the moment and how it works. I have explained to him that there is a coalition of the two largest parties and what ideology they belonged to. Then he asked me quite disbelief if that would work. I had to explain to him already in 1993 that it was more difficult than functioning properly and that under the rule only small compromises could be reached which could not be made on real reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] If I transfer this to today's time – we now have 1999, and today in the early days there has been a debate on karenz money and the implementation of women's demands – then I must say... [[Abg. May. Posch: You don't have to say anything!]] Or even if I look at the Greens' request, then looking back on all these years and especially on the present time, you have to simply say that it is becoming more and more clear: These two coalition partners in the government just can't be together anymore! Ideology drifts too far apart. It seems to be only junctimised at all now, and nothing can be done at all. If Mr Bartenstein has complained that a family package which seems to have already been negotiated by the SPÖ is being injunctified by the demands of single parents; or if one is now junctified by this small demand, this legitimate little demand of the Greens, behind which the opposition – including the liberals – has been established from the beginning and which would in the end be neutral, as we do in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment... [[Abg. Silhavy: The colleague said at first reading that this demand had been exceeded.]] Please stop, Mrs Silhavy! Otherwise, I will tell you what you said in committee. [[Abg. Silhavy: You can do that!]] Yes, but you also say something quite different here than in committee, Mrs Colleague. If we in the Committee were to regret this result and say that we would be very pleased to do so – Mr Pittermann said that she was deeply saddened because she could not agree to it, and then agreed to the second postponement – then I must say that my compassion for the SPÖ really holds back on this issue. [[Abg. Silhavy: We didn't expect that!]] You chose the coalition partner, and it seems that nothing is going on. But my compassion for the women concerned is not limited. I really must say, Mr Feurstein: I do not understand this attitude of the EIA. This understanding will also be lacking in women, not only in women affected, but also in women who can think into the situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you already fail in such small, logical, cost-neutral improvements for women, then Austria's women themselves can calculate why there is nothing going on in the larger desires of the women in Austria. They can also calculate – and I hope they will do so at the forthcoming elections – that they have nothing to expect from these government parties in this coalition. We will agree to the deadline and, of course, the matter itself.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14157	Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14178	Mr President. High house! Anything other than agreeing to such a deadline is not good for me to imagine. At all events, if you look at the concerns raised in this request for discussion at its hard core, you really cannot agree to them at all. It is also necessary to agree to the request itself. In this case, I would also like to expressly hold this in a debate on time-limits. I am normally satisfied with the right to set time limits, but in this case I must also say: 19 months and 8 days this application is old. That's just too mature, so I can only say: Time-limits – no! If one looks at the counter-arguments of the ÖVP – with the persistent arguments of the SPÖ I am going to deal with later on – there is clarity in the fact that this is a penalty, a kind of punishment that should not be eliminated. That's quite clear. That's where you're wondering: What is the ratio of this punishment? What's her goal? What preventive effect must therefore be maintained? A certain group of women should be punished, namely those who do not call their father. This is more revealing than you can imagine, even after, unfortunately, your colleague Rauch-Kallat – not in the hall – only last week in a press conference in which Members from this House made joint, cross-group statements expressly and unsolicitedly meant that this matter was important and she would support it. Uninvited, because no one asked: Mrs Rauch-Kallat, what do you say? Is that what you're talking about? – No, she presented the concern in this press conference on her own initiative as a parade example of a woman’s initiative by her person or the ÖVP. No eight days pass, and she tells us about this speaker's pulp almost the opposite. [[Abg. Haller: Poor woman!]] What measure has there been? What discipline to restore the uniformity of the further punishment of women? - It can't be. That is why I am not surprised that she is not attending the debate. For she had to expect that, in the short or long term, the House, unless the Members have read in the media, that it has asked for this, must take note of the fact that, just eight days ago, she said that this is a real concern and today explains that she cannot even agree to a deadline. I think that's a matter of concern. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Thinkful?]] I am very concerned about the other things, as Mr Moser of the ÖVP has said here, at all events. Because that wasn't the subject. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: "Care money for all" is worrying?]] She confused this with the current hour of today early. This is not about someone getting something more, but about someone getting something temporarily that he has to pay back afterwards. It is an interim financing for mothers who do not announce the father of their child, an interim financing with recovery entitlement. That's too much for her – and then she tells us about the karenz money for everyone? – That’s where you really feel planted, in the very sense of the word. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] For if a party who stands for a karenz money for all, about which one has to discuss in the form it suggests – for that is a strange casting pot, but that is something else; I would be glad if the other karenz ideas, especially those of my group, but also others, were finally discussed – if this party says that it wants it, but then not even a repayable support from mothers: What does she want? – Then she raises the demand for karenz money for everyone only because she knows it is unreasonable and impracticable, but some people like to hear it. But that's election fight! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is election campaign: To raise demands of which one knows that they are pleasing, but that one does not have to redeem them anyway. That's election fight. This is about a demand that could easily be settled, playfully; even budgetly it would be ineffective in its sustainability. It would be a advance with the small risk that maybe a few people will not be able to repay it later – well, please! – a maintenance advance or something like that. Not even to do that, that's, with engagement, really... I don't want to use power, but think of yourself, you'll find the right one! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14252	Now is Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14273	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. To Mrs Silhavy, who expressed his outrage at the fact that we do not take into account the SPÖ's positive attitude to our concerns and to our request: We know that. But what we are expecting today is less than just being announced – this policy of announcement has tradition, as we noted earlier today – but what is on the agenda today is implementation. This is quite harmless, because it is only a matter of setting deadlines, only that you agree that we may at all be able to discuss the request and content of the request in a committee and then perhaps decide in a committee. That's what it's all about! If this is your concern, then you should and should agree to this deadline. I wonder sometimes: What would happen if you agreed to this deadline or if those in your group agreed to the deadline? Would there be new elections tomorrow? What would happen? – That would interest me: What would happen if you did what you want? [[Abg. Silhavy: Perhaps the ÖVP would not agree to childcare!]] I mean, you're going to like the coalition partner relatively much. I do not want to go fishing from other areas now, but before Christmas we had the situation that Fassleven can not only scrap and sell old weapons, but also NATO or anything else – and we have no new elections! So I wonder what would happen if you were to agree today in a matter which has been said that it is estimated that 170 Members are in favour of it. What would happen then? – You become so unbelievable in what you really want, in your concern for yourself. You are so unbelievable if you do not agree to the deadline. That's the dilemma you're in. Speaking to the ÖVP: I would like to ask you, Mrs Moser, whether you are speaking or simply saying: I don't think of that anymore. I don't know; what should I say? [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] In school one says something like this: Theme missing. I suppose that's still there. The tragic thing is that we are not here in school and that this has not been an exercise, but that it is a political announcement. That makes me talk every time. I've been thinking about if you should sort of go ahead. Mrs Brinek, what are you saying? . I would hope that you will perhaps provide Mrs. Moser with the scientific framework programme once again when she speaks in front of her once again unstained, unabated and without any contradiction from her side of firm referees, love and security and in the same breath of criminal environment and slipping. I'm just speechless. [[Abg. For a speechless one, she speaks a lot.]] The issue is completely missing. It would only interest me: Why vote You're not allowed to set deadlines? Why do you not allow it to be dealt with in a committee? - That's the question I'm interested in. Why can't you agree to a deadline and just let that be discussed? – Let’s talk about it, let’s decide, we decide by majority! My colleague gives me some indications that I do not understand. [[in the direction of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Probably "redlock" or "no speaking time"!]] The speaking time is far from over. Finally, my appeal goes in the direction that I can only repeat what many have said here: It is a matter for the majority. It is a concern that many affected women and many affected single and single educators have and that would really help them – it has been carried out – in the most urgent situation. It is a matter which – here I am at an essential point – does not burden the budget. It is completely incomprehensible that you do not take this issue into account. A week ago, women from all parties set up a women's network and decided to bring in the most urgent concerns and to bring them to the negotiation. I wonder, Where are your promises, where is there? If you are unable to take account of such a deadline, what is the point of all the political groups?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14350	There is no more word message for this. This debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the request for a deadline. We shall vote on the request of Mr Öllinger and Mr Comrades, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to report on the motion for a resolution 504/A by Mr Öllinger and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Karenz leave grant law and the Karenzgeldgesetz, a period of time until 23. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14389	I now take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Next, I give the floor to Mr Dr Höchtl. – Mr Dr. Höchtl is not in the hall. I therefore call Mrs Susanne Rieß. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14416	Mr President. The Minister is not present. Will he come? Is the Minister not in the house?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14432	One second, ladies and gentlemen! Please stay at the pult! [[President Dr. Neisser talks to an official.]] The Minister is in agreement. I'll just interrupt the meeting until he arrives.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14465	I'll start the meeting again. The Federal Minister has appeared. [[Federal Minister Hostasch takes place on the government bank.]] Mrs Rieß, I give the floor to you. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14504	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Thus, the Austrian taxpayer may once again assume liability – in the present case of 500 million Schilling. It is correct that we should add that this liability is going to be effective immediately. That's a lot of nothing new. This time Brazil is to be helped. If the reports on the social and economic situation in this country are dealt with in some way, it is hard to see that this kind of money injection does not help the country of Brazil silently because of the people suffering from bitter poverty. Our good money is especially beneficial to the large investors, corporations and speculators there. Not only is the Austrian share of 500 million Schilling speaking, but a total of 41.5 billion US dollars. This is the overall dimension of this emergency aid programme. The concerns of the liberals about this more than dubious financial assistance were even shared by socialists in the Committee. This loan must also be granted without any collateral: "Borgen is worried," one can only say, especially since we also have to take on the debtor's interest service. [[Complaints with the liberals]] If you know that 35 percent of the world's countries are currently in a deep recession, you should deal with the causes of this. Because of the excessive capitalism and a simultaneous laisser-fair policy that makes things easy to run in recent years, these forms of crisis have now to come to pass. We produce formally debtors by increasing loans and only covering the old interest rates. This enormous burden is ultimately shifted to taxpayers in the poorest countries. We provide active assistance with such payments for further settlement. In any case, we cannot simply go to the agenda as long as these risky financial funds – such as the hedge funds, which have been warned of years ago – are unregulated and unbridled. Of course, they are not the sole cause of the crises that are continuing in the near future, but other factors such as poor exchange rate policy, IMF management errors and lack of monetary discipline by governments are added. Here would actually be the field of action of effective assistance. A total budget drop of 600 million Schilling is surprising and unplanned due to today's decision, carried by ÖVP and SPÖ, in favour of large capitalists, banks and multi-investments. How do you want to compensate? Who are you burdened in return? But hopefully not the investors who invest in Austria with your so strongly propagated share tax. We liberals believe that we have already taken on enough liability and reject this dubious and forward-looking financial syringe. [[Abg. Edler: Can you repeat the sentence, please!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] For it is not a question of the so-called causers of this malaise being able to hold on to the Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14552	Mr Dr Höchtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14573	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, after the debate on various requests for deadlines, we come back to the subject which has undoubtedly gained a special drama since the financial committee meeting and today's plenary, I think we should remember the dimension of contributions made by Austria in comparison with other countries. If Austria makes 50 million dollars of contributions and Switzerland, for example, five times to mention only one neighbouring country, this shows that we are aware of the risk. We have made the lowest overall contribution to this, but we have never ignored one thing: An aid action – and this is it – is something that we must not exclude ourselves for solidarity reasons, because solidarity always means that all contribute to it. I think we are doing well to express a yes to this solidarity by our decision. [[Complementary of the Abg. Tichy-Schreder as well as the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] – Mr Novotny, you as an applicant will, of course, welcome this. Ladies and gentlemen! What pleased me in relation to the three opposition parties was only the opinion of Mr Peter, because, despite his opposition status, he was very likely to emphasize the importance of the expression of solidarity, while I was particularly surprised by the two other opposition parties – in the Greens, for in the Committee there was still another behaviour in their discussion, a differentiated argumentation, Mr Van der Bellen – although the concept of solidarity is repeatedly used, but is not expressed here in voting behaviour. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It was mentioned in the discussion that new negotiations between the International Monetary Fund, which represents the real negotiators and coordinators of this whole aid package, and the Government of Brazil would be necessary. I'm saying, These negotiations have already begun. Without a doubt, we must not overlook one thing: Brazil has undergone some drastic changes in its economic and financial policy between 1994 and last year. Mr Van der Bellen mentioned this "crawling peg". Among other things, it was possible that the hyperinflation of 2,670 percent, as it was given in Brazil in 1994, could be radically reduced last year, of course, with all the difficulties that may have caused an outbreak in this dimension. But there have been some efforts by the government and Parliament that we must not overlook. I believe that the problem we must undoubtedly consider is that it may not only be Brazil in this case, but of course it can have an impact on the various Latin American states. I mention Argentina, which can be particularly affected, but also others. The nature of an aid action is always that we must try in time to use what is available to us in order not to allow such a follow-up effect to occur. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. As a country that has always felt committed to solidarity, we have traditionally supported aid actions of this kind. We have this time provided our support with a relatively small contribution. I think it is important that a change in the conditions of the negotiator of the International Monetary Fund is also achieved in renegotiations with Brazil, but solidarity should not be expressed when the country's distress and difficulties are the greatest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14626	The last speaker to speak for the time being is Member of Parliament. Trattner with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14647	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Höchtl! There is no point in discussing what the International Monetary Fund has agreed with the Brazilian Government when measures have been taken by the Brazilian Government and it has not succeeded in putting them into practice in Parliament. You yourself know exactly what two serious points it was about. For example, the Brazilian Parliament has rejected the fact that public servants are supposed to take care of themselves. That was rejected. They also know quite well that the Brazilian Government, with its request in Parliament, has passed through the introduction of a so-called financial tax in time, which would have reduced the budget deficit by 25 percent. What does it make sense for the IMF to negotiate with the government, but the government in Parliament does not implement its stabilisation measures? There's a shame for every money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's why: There will be a 50 million dollar guarantee, and they will probably be gone. It would be the same as if I were to give 10 million schillings for planning today to a Marod company that wants to make an investment of 100 million schillings. Maybe it's okay, maybe it's not well, but if it goes wrong, the 10 million schillings are gone. This is not a constructive economic policy! In the Committee on Budgets, too, the colleagues of the Socialist Group and the Minister for Finance have said that the conditions for these international aid measures need to be changed quickly, as private investors carry the risk they face. What is this risk management if I am able to invest in a country in which I have two criteria guaranteed by the public authorities, namely a stable exchange rate and high interest rates? Private investors have gone to Brazil because they have had the guarantee of a stable exchange rate and the prospect of interest rates of up to 50 percent and, in the backside, the assurance that the public hand or the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Latin American Bank will anyway be available to clean up the situation if anything happens. Then who are the sufferers there? The sufferers there are not the financial institutions, the sufferers are not the public servants, the ministers and the President, but the population is suffering. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ==References====External links== In November, something has been decided – and this is the case – for which there is no programme at all. That was blessed. A sloppy request was then made by Mr Novotny and Mr Stummvoll in the Committee on Finance. You didn't even know what it was about. But we only decide on a guarantee over 600 million! The Austrian taxpayers will take you to billions – and 600 million will simply be lost. That is the criticism of the liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you something: If it does not happen in the future that private investors entering into a risk commitment are then held responsible for risk management, then we are no longer involved in these things! Colleagues boldly from the Austrian People's Party comes out and predicts that our share of exports in Brazil is 0.3 percent of the total aid programme, and we donate only 0.15 or 0.18 anyway. That would be an acceptable amount. If you are honest, you should not go down here today – even the Austrian People's Party colleagues – and come with economic arguments, but you should say here: This is a contribution of solidarity, and probably the money is gone. In this case, there is no argument. The Social Democrats have already learned from this story. In the financial committee itself, the Minister of Finance has said that he is not happy with these measures in this form. What does it make sense to say first as a goal to keep the exchange rate high, if the exchange rate on the dollar still falls by 15 percent within three days and then is released anyway? Who are the sufferers? The sufferers are not the banks, not the private investors, because they have all deducted the money before, but the suffering population is the local population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is faced with increased import prices leading to imported inflation. This imported inflation will not be remunerated and jobs will be destroyed. The economic situation in Brazil is very bad anyway. Therefore, measures must first be taken to correct the budget deficit so that the debt situation of the State is corrected. We must also ask ourselves what happened to the privatization proceeds in the order of $75 billion. Where'd they go? Obviously not in the budget, obviously they have flown into dark channels. These things need to be clarified before any schilling goes to Brazil. And as long as these things are not clarified, even in the EU, as long as the FPÖ no longer agrees on any increase in contributions. There will be no more consent to any subsidies from dubious stories. We will ensure that the taxpayers are made available to the Austrians and will not be used for dubious stories abroad!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14704	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion has not been desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1575 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This draft has been adopted by a large majority. We shall come to the third reading of this draft. Whoever is in third reading for this may give a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. 3rd. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1430 of the Supplements): Blood Security Act 1999 – BSG 1999 (1577 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14753	We are now coming to item 3 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mrs Pittermann as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14780	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! "Blut is a very special juice," says Goethe. Blood is medically an organ consisting of corpuscular and liquid parts. Blood transmission can save lives, but it can also endanger lives. Economically, blood is a good business. The discovery of blood groups by landstones at the beginning of this century, the possibility of preserving blood and blood products, as well as the knowledge of the effectiveness of the blood components made an ever wider application possible. There would be the framework here to give a detailed overview of all the progress and setbacks of transfusion medicine, but without these performances in the transfusion area, many achievements of modern medicine would not be possible. Until 25 years ago, the risk of a hepatitis B transmission was an eminent. When this risk of infection was almost banned, at the beginning of the 1980s we learned of a new infection, a great danger of HIV infection, which was initially underestimated. A little later, the hepatitis C virus was discovered as an infectious agent of non-A-non-B hepatitis. As of the 1950s, the industry showed great interest in the production of plasma products, which promised to become a very viable business. Little attention has been paid to the donors. This resulted in serious health damage due to donation. A causality with some deaths was suspected, so that a plasma - pheresis law was later to be passed. This blood safety law now to be decided is therefore of great importance for the protection of healthy donors and recipients of the products. My special thanks for this government template goes to the Federal Ministers Hostasch and Krammer as well as to Mr. Ministerial Councillor Dr. Kurz and all the employees of his department who constantly wage a tough and tireless struggle for the quality of the transfusion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These have enabled the present government template, despite great resistance. In recent years, blood banks and depots have been regularly committed and reviewed by ministerial officials. Exact records must be kept in order to be able to trace any given blood product. The Ministry regularly organises training courses for blood depositors and consistently cooperates with the leading transfusion physicians in Austria in order to achieve rapid improvements according to medical progress. Since 1994, there has been a special field for blood-group-serology and transfusion medicine, since treatment with blood products has become so extensive as to enable both the increase in knowledge and the knowledge of any risks that this cannot be communicated as an annex to another main subject. However, in accordance with the Committee's opinion, it is important to ensure that post-occupying of heads of blood donors and blood deposits is carried out only with the correspondingly trained specialists. In order to maintain high quality in hospitals, transfusion physicians must also be employed there for all transfusion medical skills. Until recently, cross samples were not carried out in large hospitals even prior to each blood transfusion. The constant constant review of blood donation facilities and hospitals is therefore a conditional sine qua non. For all blood products, security of supply for patients must be guaranteed 365 days and nights a year. The funds used for the quality of the training of transfusion physicians and for the quality products and their control are not unnecessary costs, but an investment for the best patient care on a high standard. With thanks to all those involved in this government paper and to the hope that they will continue to fight for health care at the highest level, I conclude my remarks and assure you that we Social Democrats like to agree to this government template, since best medical care and protection of people from health damage are among our main concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14836	Mr Johann Schuster came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14857	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== This year, the Health Committee was dealing with a number of agenda items, one of which, as my previous speaker has already mentioned, was the blood safety law. This day, the following Communication on Broadcasting was issued: Red Cross appeals to blood donors: Especially blood donors of the blood groups AB negative and 0 negative are urgently needed! The Blood Donation Centre of the Red Cross for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland urgently needs donors of all blood groups, especially those of the blood groups AB negative and 0 negative are needed to maintain the care of 80 hospitals and hospitals in the east of the federal territory! Ladies and gentlemen! This House has decided, in an amendment to the Private Radio Act, that this call must also be made on radio and on private radio when it comes to performing blood donations. I think that's important. Ladies and gentlemen! We also remember the last two scandals in which contaminated blood canneds were in play. Last June, it became known that a pensioner was generally given an HIV-disposed blood canal. We also remember that a year ago 200 voluntary plasma donors were infected with hepatitis C. Although Austria – and we can say this proudly – is one of the safest countries in the world in the case of blood transfusions, a certain residual risk cannot be excluded. Statistics say that in about 1.3 million cases, a blood donation can slip through the 16 standardised tests. The present blood safety law should now help to reduce this minimum risk even further, ladies and gentlemen, because quality is the most important requirement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This draft law lays down provisions on the health fitness and health protection of donors, it lays down requirements for a blood donation facility to grant an operating authorisation in respect of their personal, structural and technical equipment and third provisions on quality assurance in respect of blood donated in blood establishments. I welcome this uniform, comprehensive new regulation, which reorganises the blood donation system and, as I believe, optimises it. In Upper Austria alone, ladies and gentlemen, more than a million blood tests are carried out annually by the Red Cross blood donation service. A total of 524 blood donation operations were necessary to adequately supply the hospitals and intensive care stations with blood canned. In addition, I would like to point out that since the 1st century. In October 1998 at the blood centre in Linz, every blood canned is tested even after the new so-called PCR test. The AIDS virus can be detected for the first time. At this point, my thanks to all the blood donation staff for the good work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I still feel it is an absolute manko that it has not succeeded in providing a central donor evidence in this new law. I know that there are more and more arguments about data protection. But I think that in this case he is not in place or is not properly assigned. I believe that Mrs Bundesminister must do everything we can to help a central donor evidence break through. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a call to you, a call to all who want to donate blood and can: You should not only do it to see if you are healthy yourself, whether your own blood is healthy, but also to help others and even to save lives. That's how I understand a functioning civil society. High house! Such an incident as he was in a hospital in a neighbouring country of us, where it was said that a medical care, an operation could not be performed because the patient is too old, must not exist in Austria. Older people must not be disadvantaged. Every citizen must be granted the best possible medical treatment without regard to his or her age. In this sense, Mr President, we will be happy to give our assent to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14931	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14953	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am, as many here in the House will know, even a affected person: On the one hand, I would not be alive for more than 18 years if there were no blood products, blood donors, blood donors and the appropriate possibilities for people in this country who are willing to donate blood to do so. On the other hand, I have been more affected since the same time when I was infected with contaminated blood products without being able to prevent it because the state of knowledge was still inadequate and not comprehensive enough at the time, and in the course of the administration of blood transfusions with hepatitis A, hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses, and I have inherited the cytomegaly virus. In 1981, thanks to the risk of HIV infection, God was not so great – in the south of Austria this virus was not yet spread at all – so the full palette of 148 blood transfusions has been saved from me. One has to imagine this: This is a complete federal army help that has been made available to save my life. I believe that this blood safety law is important for two reasons: firstly, to be able to give those who are willing to donate blood, to be sure that, according to the best and last scientific level, they will provide their assistance to the public, and secondly, to be able to guarantee those who are ill and treated in hospitals, but also their relatives, that blood and blood products are administered according to the highest standards and that the indication, blood and blood products should also be administered, that they are responsible and not easily presented, as occurred in some times of human medicine, when the risks were considered to be even lower, and that alternative therapies are also considered and used massively. I mean, Mrs Federal Minister, that, from the point of view of those concerned, it is urgently necessary to thank also those who have fought for this law, namely the person concerned, whether it was the HIV victims, whether it was the HCV victims, whether it was the large group of the bleeding patients in Austria, who were massively harmed by the scandals caused by admittedly some black sheep, but also by criminals who have spread on this market. These must be helped in the appropriate form or they must be compensated. The Ministry of Justice, Mrs Bundesminister, has stated in his opinion that the unfortunate question of compensation for both donors and recipients should at last be brought to justice. I believe that it would be time for the Ministry of Justice and the groups concerned to meet this request in the appropriate form. I would just like to correct Mrs Pittermann in one point: The rapid implementation is a failure, as many things in this Republic, unfortunately often in money. You know for yourself that the demands for a PCR test have been in the room for years. In the meantime, the cost of this has been so clearly minimized that economic considerations are no longer opposed to it. In the neopterin test, there was the same situation: Innsbruck and Klagenfurt have used it for a long time, while the rest of Austria has opposed it, because the testing that takes place in quantities of about 10 to 20 percent, depending on the number of populations caught by flu waves and other diseases, rejects more blood samples. However, I believe that the discussion on the documentation should also be carried out from the point of view of a person concerned. This documentation shall also be made available to the person concerned and shall be made possible to consult the same. I have personally experienced the fact that this documentation has only been available to doctors, has tried to refuse to see it, and only my knowledge of the legislation has enabled me to see where it is for me. I should now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this claim is justified in order to be able to enforce the claims for compensation even if the installations are already closed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15027	Mr Mag. Main texted amendment request has been submitted in accordance with business rules, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Motter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15048	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals also welcome the new blood security law, which is not really a new one, but rather replaces the existing plasma-pheresis law and contains substantially new requirements adapted to today's medicine. Thus, the aim of reducing the risk of transmission of infectious agents, in particular of HIV or hepatitis viruses, to a minimum is to make significant progress. Similarly, the new blood security law provides the certainty that all possible precautions to protect their health are made for donors and recipients. I am also pleased that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has adopted a joint committee on the basis of an amendment, namely that, in the case of re-occupied management functions of blood donors, there should be a prioritisation of trained specialists, such as the specialist in blood-group erology and transfusion medicine, the specialist in laboratory medicine and so on. Unfortunately, our amendment to § 18 of the Committee did not find a majority to be taken into account in the review. I am still of the opinion that a qualified review will be sufficiently ensured only by the presence of a specialist in blood-group erology and transfusion medicine. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would also like to point out that, at an event held by Austrian doctors in Feldkirch, the delegation of this task to the district administration authority was at least to be taken over by a specialist or a specialist doctor, because at present official doctors do not have the technical knowledge to be able to carry out checks on a blood donation. For this reason, I will bring in our amendment and I hope that you will support it here in plenary. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite our agreement, I still agree with some criticisms concerning this draft law. We have concerns about the nature of data protection law, because there is no indication of the purpose for which employees of the blood donors receive personal data from the donor. Why they get them is simply not clear to us, and this does not come out of the legislative text either. Furthermore, the question arises as to the extent of the data to be processed via non-blood-donors, in particular the question of why and to what extent the results of the aptitude test should be stored. This too is a fact that we cannot understand. We hope, however, that the extent of these data, given their sensitivity, will at least be limited to the minimum medically absolutely necessary. Furthermore, it would also be necessary to examine why a ten-year period is set, which will take place until the case is resolved, and what other legislation might be that requires a longer storage period. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Your request, which provides that, after this period or after the termination of the activities of the blood donation, the complete documentation of the respective national anity authority is to be handed over, we do not think that it is useful for reasons of data protection. The question would be that such data should not be deleted. We cannot therefore accept your request. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also worrying that the documentation should be made available at any time for the control bodies responsible under this federal law. I believe that it would be useful to reserve access to documents containing health data, in principle, only doctors and doctors. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I call for a separate vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15138	The amendment tabled by Mrs Motter in the course of her debate has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mrs Haidlmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15159	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The blood security law means in the form in which it now exists to us, undisputed progress both for those who donate blood and for those who need blood. Mrs. Minister! I believe it is very important that situations, as they did through the AIDS scandal in Austria, no longer occur. I believe that all here can still remember that at the time thousands of people were infected with HIV and that those responsible have never been held accountable. A committee that should have clarified the situation about contaminated blood in Austria has never been established. We have now achieved - at the massive pressure of the Greens - that there has been a support fund for HIV-infected people since 1995. This is at least a small step, but it is far from excluded that scandals like those in which HIV - contaminated blood was administered will continue in the future. Mrs. Minister! We have already discussed in the Committee that there is a risk that BSE will also be transmitted via blood, according to scientific findings or assumptions. In America, one has already responded, and people who have been or have spent their vacation in England are not allowed to donate blood in the United States, for the reason that they are opposed to a possible transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. In Austria, the situation is such that it is already possible to separate the white from the red blood cells and that by filtering the white blood cells a risk of infection with viruses is very low. But this system only works in Vienna to 80, 90 percent. This still does not work in the other cities. Therefore, the danger remains that both donors and recipients can get a virus through blood donors. In order to prevent this situation or in order to be able to really help those concerned in the event of damage, the Ministry of Justice proposes in its opinion that the legal basis for the establishment of a compensation fund should be established in which the Federal Government, the countries and the companies involved in the collection and processing of blood and blood products pay contributions. Mrs. Minister! There is nothing to add to these demands by the Ministry of Justice, and the Minister of Justice has the full support of our Greens, because it is also important for us that there is a fund that can then easily be used to make compensation payments. I believe that the compensation payments for blood donation to hepatitis C who are now being performed are only a small part of how many viruses in the blood can still be transmitted despite intensive controls. Mrs. Minister! A point that is already very important to me under this law is data protection. I see, and I am pleased that the data of the blood donors and blood donors are collected, because if you call for blood or in an emergency situation, it is certainly useful and important that you know exactly where there are potential donors, for example, the blood group 0 negative. For this, data protection is quite, very important. But, Mrs Minister, it is inexplicable for me to explain why data is also collected and processed by persons who are ultimately excluded from the blood donation. I think that data from people who are forever excluded from the blood donation should never be recorded in order not to create the risk of anyone looking at this data once to know why, for example, the Haidlmayr or anyone else should not donate blood because of which diseases or risk factors. This can fall to the head of the individual, especially when it comes to getting a job maybe. You know, data is permeable, and every entrepreneur comes to the data he wants. Collection of data on ability to donate blood yes, but only of people who are actually listed as blood donors in the cartel, but never of persons who are not allowed to donate blood at all. According to the Ministry, there are various opinions as to why these data must be stored, including those who are not allowed to donate blood. So it says that there may be a danger that a person who is excluded from the blood donation today will return three days later and would like to donate blood again. Mrs. Minister! This argument is not sustainable. For what do you do if a person goes into an ambulance in Vienna today and is found there that she is not allowed to donate blood, she is admitted to the cartel, but then the same person goes to a blood donation centre in Upper Austria or Lower Austria in the morning and wants to donate there as well? – These data are not networked at all, and in Lower Austria one could not see whether this is a potential, legitimate blood donor or not. So it is not necessary that the data be stored for this reason. Mrs. Minister! One point that is still very important to me is the area of plasma donation. Plasma donors are still rewarded with us in Austria. They have reason to reason that it means a certain effort for a plasma donor to donate plasma. That's right. But for the blood donor, it means the same effort, perhaps not the same time he has to be there, but definitely the same actual effort when he spends blood. So there is the possibility that both can get money. But under EU Directive no money should be paid for it. This should also be considered in Austria and therefore no longer compensate plasma donors with money for donating plasma. I have tabled two independent motions for resolutions. One concerns the recipient of blood in particular. In concrete terms, as I have already mentioned, it is a compensation fund for persons harmed by blood and blood products. The other request I have made concerns the donors, because the donors are also at risk from blood donation and may get a virus that accompanies them for a lifetime and may also be very heavy. That is why there should also be an insurance, because only if blood donors and blood recipients are properly protected, I do not see any danger that there will be enough blood in Austria in the future, and then I see no danger or only a small risk that the blood donated will not have the appropriate quality, so that a recipient really does not need to have any fear when he gets into the situation of the need for foreign blood. Mrs. Minister! My two requests will certainly be found in the committee, because I think we should really consider something to ensure protection. Otherwise to this blood security law, because it is a piece of progress in the interest of all, and I think we should just want that from a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15227	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15249	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Blood Safety Act 1999 is now to replace the Plasma phreses Act 1975 and the corresponding regulation. We Socialists have already made it sufficiently clear by my group colleague, Pittermann, why we are in favour of this law. I would like to use the speaking time to address the arguments of the opposition. For example, the district administration has criticized the execution, and there has been a lack of qualifications in the activity of the official doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the Plasma phreses Act is already the task of the District Administration Authority, and now, as we know – we have heard from the Committee – we have planned additional training courses for medical doctors on the part of the Ministry. But you must not overlook the following either: There is already a clear rule in the General Procedure Act. According to § 52, the Authority is obliged to involve non-governmental experts in the proceedings if the official is unable to assess matters accordingly. Another criticism was raised by Mr Haidlmayr. She said that something was being paid for plasma donations and that was not EU-compliant. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! To this end, I would like to make it clear: This EU Directive also allows for an appropriate charging of expenses. However, profit-making is not permitted. And in this law there is nothing but a charge of expenses. Next review point: Data protection provisions have been criticised, in particular with regard to the documentation of donors such as non-donors. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! I think it is a foreign to the previous victims to criticise and challenge these documentation rules and the data collection provided. It is precisely this documentation that is absolutely necessary in order to ensure a complete understanding of the transfusion chain according to the state of medical science, in order to prevent further health damage on the one hand and on the other hand to enforce claims on the other. The claims would be made here in accordance with the Product Liability Act. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, on this draft law or on the existing legal regulations, it should be noted that these were once always at the highest level of medical knowledge. Austria will now be Europe's first country to implement the relevant EU directives and recommendations, in particular the Council's recommendation on the suitability of blood and plasma donors and the screening of blood donors in the European Community. However, this draft and the following regulations, which are still to come, go beyond the Council recommendation and are ultimately a mixture between the above recommendation of the Council of Ministers and the safety criteria laid down by the Council of Europe, setting the minimum time between plasma donation and the amount of donated blood for men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, further studies are still necessary. They were promised by the ministry. They are necessary in order to be able to estimate the possible risks accordingly. Allow me, in conclusion, to address a particular problem which has nothing to do with this law, namely, the criminal activities under the Drugs Act. I remember this international business and crime with blood and blood products. I recall the procedure in Linz, after which a total of seven Austrians have been accused of serious fraud, deliberate common risk and intentional danger of human beings by communicable diseases. Blood products were exported to America via the duty-free zone, reintroduced and relabelled into the customs-free zone. These were products with HIV antibodies, genome sequences of the AIDS virus itself, hepatitis B and schhistosoma menoni. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It must be an international concern to combat this business by all means. Here the European Union, but also all third countries are required. Allow closing You're holding me. We believe that this law is absolutely necessary. It is at the highest level in Europe. There is security with regard to blood donation, for those who want to donate, and for those who need blood products. I can ask you to give your consent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15308	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15329	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Every year, 250,000 blood donations are needed in Eastern Austria alone – more than 100,000 liters of blood. Especially in recent years, as many of the colleagues have said here today, we have repeatedly been confronted with unexpected problems in blood donation such as AIDS infections and hepatitis transmissions. The highest law, yes, the only command of a blood security law must therefore be the highest possible quality while at the same time ensuring the supply. We have certainly come a step closer to this requirement by means of this law, and we will therefore, as in the Committee, agree to this law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, quality management is important, but goes beyond the quality control of tests and products. For us, quality management involves documented control of the structures of the individual processes and the quality of the personnel that are constantly in motion through the new development. We have therefore already called on the Health Committee, as well as other opposition groups, to be a qualified specialist for these tasks by the Board of Directors and the medical director of a blood donation facility. And we also reached a five-party agreement on this subject in the Committee on Health. But if we now have a qualified specialist as the Board of Directors of these institutions, the doctor who controls this specialist or controls this unit can be no less qualified than the doctor to be controlled, just an official. It is also unwise to re-train doctors if there are already trained specialists in this field. Therefore, like my colleague from the Liberal Forum, I am tabling an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another quality criterion that has not been observed in this law is international trade in blood and blood products. They certainly recall the recent event in Upper Austria, where contaminated or unclean blood products have come into the market. In order to guarantee quality, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Blood is the most important "fuel" for humans. I therefore come to an issue on blood and blood products, which is very important to me and which I would like to bring to your attention today. Every day, 7 000 adolescents worldwide are infected with AIDS. The number of infections transmitted by heterosexual contact increases. If a young woman is HIV-positive and has a child, it is ill in 30 percent of cases and is also infected. It is either after birth or with a latency after a few years and then dies with certainty. However, if the mother knows that she is HIV-positive and is treated, and if the child is decomposed by the cut of the emperor and treated accordingly after birth, then the rate of infection decreases to 3 percent. Therefore, when we talk about blood and blood products and diseases transmitted on the blood path, the citizens and especially young women who are currently affected by this problem should be informed and informed. It is very important to me that young women in today's society, if they are pregnant, are also required to know what it means for them and for their child when they are HIV-positive and do not know this in advance in order to protect their child. I therefore urge you to attach a mandatory education in the mother-child passport. As we all know, medicine in our society is subject to a very rapid change. Our task, ladies and gentlemen, is to respond quickly and effectively to this change.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15432	Both of the amendments tabled by Mrs Povysil, both the motion for a resolution and the amendment, have been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, are sufficiently supported and therefore the subject of the negotiation. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Where is the FPÖ? She's already gone? Is it just a person?]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: They have club meeting!]] [[Abg. Kiss: You need a blood transfusion!]] I now give the floor to Mrs Anna Huber. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15488	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The blood security law that we are adopting today actually sets a milestone in health care, because this law guarantees the greatest possible protection after the latest state of research, namely protection for donors and recipients. With this comprehensive new regulation, Austria is further expanding its health policy pioneering role in the European Union, and I think we can be proud of that. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to stress some of the points of the law. First of all, it seems to me that it is established that a donor from a voluntary blood donation must not be granted financial or material profit, but that it is a very essential point to think about the health of the donors. However, this regulation also fully implements the principle of self-sufficiency with voluntary and free donations of blood. Austria is thus the first country to follow the guidelines of the Council of Europe – we have already heard this today. Voluntaryness and freeness prevent health exploitation, at the same time minimise the risk of infection for the recipient and ensure the recruitment of donors from all levels of the population. I would like to make a second point. This law places particular emphasis on comprehensive quality assurance. It is taxed that each blood donation is obliged to provide a quality assurance system to ensure the quality of blood and blood components. I believe that the parameters of investigation, Mrs Povysil, are not laid down in this law, are particularly important. They are regulated on the basis of the regulation, because it is a matter of taking account of the latest state of science. I would like – because this was also criticised – to address once again the documentation requirement, which is also enshrined in the law. It is only with this that I believe that the blood circulation will be fully comprehensible from Vene to Vene, which will enable us to make any claims for damages later on. This will implement a security mechanism, and the ten-year retention obligation of the data is fully justified and particularly important for this perceptibility in the case of cases over years. Finally, I would like to congratulate our Minister of Health Hostasch and the experts of her home on this law. It's contemporary, it's patient-oriented, it's a rule that's worn by the effort to get the best possible safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15528	Mr Pumberger has now been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's been said a lot. In essence, it can be concluded that this law reduces the likelihood of an infection of a patient treated with blood or with a blood product. That is why we are right that this law should be passed today, and we will also agree with it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take the opportunity, in my capacity as chairman of the Parliamentary Health Committee, to thank the hundreds of thousands of donors in Austria each year from this point of view, that, without taking the least advantage of it, they donate so much blood in the service of the neighbor, the neighbor who is ill. Despite the difficulties that may arise, and despite the rules in the law which could make a donation in the future more difficult due to the red tape, I hope that in the future, as many Austrians will continue to report on the donation of blood and continue this good deed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This law was an injunction law. The occasion was not good, but the law is fine. The occasion was a criminal case in the Mühlviertel in the spring of last year. At that time, contaminated blood – obviously from Africa – was conspicuous and confiscated in a mill-fourtler plant, because, I think, the investigations were supposed to have re-labelled this blood, and possibly already contaminated contaminated blood with HI viruses. I know that on the extract from the trade register a very prominent name was also identified in connection with this company, namely the name of the former SPÖ mayor of Salzburg, Reschen. Interestingly, he has appeared as a company participant or company owner of this company in reputation and suspicion. I hope that this obvious crime will be resolved quickly and that it will no longer be possible to see blood from another country in Austria – in the case of African countries – being imported, relabelled and possibly fed to a patient. I hope that this will not happen in the future. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We will also support the amendments tabled by the Greens and Liberals, because they are entirely in our minds. I am therefore at the end of my remarks, because there is not much to be put to bear on the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15614	It has now come up with a report by Mrs Hostasch, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15636	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say thank you very much for your debate, because it has been expressed in your remarks that you not only regard the content, the intentions, but also the clear wording of this law as important and correct, but also support it and thus ensure that we bring to the latest possible conclusion those high safety and quality standards that we have already had in Austria. I am very proud to be able to point out that Austria is the first country that, following the latest recommendations of the European Union, will now have a new, modern one, which, as has been said, will have the latest scientific knowledge of the blood security law, which will be decided here today in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Pumberger! It is in no way a law of cause. There is no link here between the unimported medicinal products and the criminal offence and the efforts of my department, but also your efforts to create a new legal basis. There's no connex here. I would really like to stress this very explicitly! It has been noted by you in the debate that some concrete example has been said as an incentive, but also as a slight criticism. From my point of view, Mr Maier has made it very clear that I can only join 100 percent of what he has said and do not want to repeat everything again. I should like to mention two or three points, however, because they have been repeated. This includes the question of the official doctors who are supposed to be unable to fulfil the tasks defined in the law. I would like to point out once again that, not only by means of additional information and training, but also that the official doctors are also entitled to participate in situations in which they feel overwhelmed by their professional training, so as to ensure that evaluations are carried out according to best knowledge and conscience. I do not think that there is an oversupply of the official doctors – apart from the fact that, in the sense of their competence, the countries will certainly ensure that the conditions are met. I would also like to stress that it is also in my intention that in the future we should be entrusted with the management of blood donors, but also with the provision of blood. However, I am glad that you have taken into account my arguments and those of my section that, because of the current situation of trained specialists in this direction, it seems appropriate to remain in the current legal formulation, but to note by a committee that, in the case of future occupations, the specialists in this field should also be entrusted with the management. Allow me, Mrs Povysil, to point out, with regard to your suggestion on quality management, that I had the same considerations and continued to have the same as you. I am therefore very proud that, within the framework of our Presidency in the European Union, we succeeded in holding last July a conference of experts, a very high-level seminar, which my very much valued colleague Dr Kurz, who has already been thanked today – I would like to say, was rightly thanked. This seminar focused on the development and application of criteria for quality assessment and, as it is said, good practice in the collection, processing and transfusion of blood and blood products as well as on procedures for further monitoring of patients. It was very crucial in this seminar to work out the following: What are the experiences of quality management in other countries? Do we have uniform standards? Do we have common experiences? Where can we best focus on this common experience and implement it for the national quality management systems? There is not much in this context – not only we learn every day, but also in the other European countries a discussion process is under way – but I am pleased that we have received the highest recognition for this seminar from the other ministers from the EU countries, in particular from the experts. It has shown that we have really been able to make the preparations at the highest scientific, but also organisational level. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this law can be passed today. The relevant regulations to be adopted in connection with this law are in preparation. I am therefore convinced that we will soon be able to join the highest level with the legal system we have and thus ensure quality assurance for donors, for recipients, but also for all those involved in the transfusion chain. – Thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15701	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, and we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1577 of the supplements. To this end, Members Mother and Comrades have tabled an amendment. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. Finally, Mrs Motter has made a request for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 11 para. 4 refers. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Could the number of freemen be determined here?- Oh, my God!]] We are now voting on § 11 para. 4 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The said body of law has been accepted by a majority of its members. Deputies Motter and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 18 para. 1 refers. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is an action of the shrinkers!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Deputies Dr. Povysil and comrades also have an amendment to § 18 para. 1 introduced. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. We are now immediately voting on § 18 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This body of law has been adopted by a majority of the Committee's reports. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was strategically clever!]] – This decision shall be adopted unanimously. A unanimous vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign. The draft was adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on foreign blood canneds and blood products – patient safety. [[Oje-Rufe der Abg. Dr. Fekter and other Members.]] Those who are in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. 4. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (1554 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Dentist Law (1578 of Supplements) 5. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Walter Guggenberger, Maria Rauch-Kallat and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Act on the regulation of medical and technical services and health services – MTF-SHD-G (1579 of the Supplements) 6. Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 820/A (E) by Mr Alois Pumberger and Mr Comrades on the training standard and professional image of medical assistants (1580 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15812	We now come to points 4 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Pumberger in this debate. There is a desire for a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15840	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This health package is not a very healthy package, because there is already a lot to be suspended here, much more than in the matter that has just been agreed on. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, like, the Dentist law. Here, of course, we will give the consent, even though we have to bear in mind that it would no longer be possible for the Dentist to hold the title "Dentist" by the introduction of an independent dental study law – because it was not the same thing in this law – because he was allowed to practice his profession only as a dentist. Although only a few would be affected, some dentists could no longer exercise their profession. – That is why this change has to be made. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think it is important that the consumer can distinguish whether the dentist is a dentist or a dentist. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This ensures that the consumer already recognizes from the title of the dental handler that it is not someone who has completed a complete dental study but a dentist in the conventional sense. - So much to the Dentist Law. Now I come to my request regarding dental assistants and ordination assistants. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Especially after the debate that we held in the morning, namely on unemployment and, above all, the unemployment of women, this request is becoming particularly important. For ordination aids, i.e. medical assistants, practice a very responsible profession, but are so far only trained in courses of about 120, 130 hours. I think – and this is also the express wish of the Society for General Medicine – that these professions need a much better education and that they need their own professional status. Ordination assistance and dental assistants must receive their own professional training. This profession should also become a teaching profession, so that we could suddenly create about 1,500 teaching places! If we make these occupations a teaching profession and if a well-founded training is guaranteed, then many, many women's jobs, including half-day jobs, are created. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to ask you to support a similar request in the Styrian Landtag unanimously – your colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ in the Styrian Landtag voted in favour of this, and that is unanimously, together with the opposition parties. – to provide this professional group with proper vocational training. With the approval of this motion for a resolution, you would make it possible for dental assistants and ordination assistants to become their own profession with solid vocational training. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the third matter. The question is that the so-called "sanity law" states that "sanitary workers and persons who have received a similar or better training for their voluntary activity may also perform rehabilitation with so-called semi-automatics". This is the recovery with a technical device, a method that is clearly safer and more effective than the manual heart massage. We cannot take away anything negative from this aspect and will vote in favour of rescuers and volunteers who are equally trained to receive this possibility of life salvation. We hope that the pilot experiment, which has been running very successfully in the Styria for some time, will soon pass into the daily practice of rescuers and can save many lives with this semi-automatic machine. What I do not understand is that this request had to be made more specifically, that this was not done together with the already completed ministerial draft, which has already gone through all the assessment phases and could actually have been decided today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I hope the colleague Povysil corrects you!]] We have already seen in committee that the coalition parties have become very serious. For example, Mrs Rauch-Kallat spoke of 100 people's lives, which could be saved every year, while the SPÖ-deputy accused herbs, but that this was a Styrian project, not the ÖVP, but the SPÖ. The Redeemer from the SPÖ, in turn, accused the ÖVP that it was "traveling around on the sickly mesh of honoraryness". – Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine that! It was really unworthy, so I didn't wonder that then Mr. Leiner – now he laughs – really cried, he doesn't stop this sulphur. In my opinion, it is clear that the government parties are competing in who enforces this law. But they simply can't sit down because they don't come to a green branch in a loud fight. Ladies and gentlemen! The rescuers, both the main professionals and the volunteers, did not deserve it! The rescuers – both the main professional and the voluntary – need professional protection first. Secondly, they need a better quality of their training. This also applies to both groups, to the principals and to the volunteer rescuers. And thirdly, it must be ensured that honoraryness will continue in the future. If one were to be agitated at volunteering, then it would have a formally changing effect, then perhaps one would be agitating at volunteering in the fire brigade and also at many other organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already tabled the draft ministerial proposal as a self-employed one today. I ask you to treat him. It should be allocated to the Health Committee as soon as possible so that we can adopt this Save Anity Act for the benefit of the people and for the maintenance of voluntary service as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15931	The amendment previously selected has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15955	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Emergency medicine has developed rapidly in recent years. This means that many people can be guaranteed survival and that many more people are spared from permanent invalidity. However, this also means that the health care workers who are often the first to be at the accident site are faced with higher requirements than they used to be. It is therefore about those who help to ensure a better quality of their training. This is completely incontrovertible, and it is precisely in this direction that the government template, which Mrs. Hostasch has sent to the opinion, is also aimed at. Ladies and gentlemen! We are constantly experiencing debates on government documents, but I would like to say that if you allow me to make this comment: In this debate, some were often a good piece away from the honesty of the debate. I do not want to exclude the Red Cross, whose representatives initially claimed that the implementation of this novelle would cost 3 billion schilling. – How did they get this milkmaid bill? – They probably simply assumed that there would be no more volunteering, and the approximately 100,000 hours currently provided by the volunteer workers would cost about 3 billion schilling. It is not intended to give up volunteering, and now the representatives of the Red Cross have also seen that no one wants it. So let me also point out in all clarity and clarity: The honoraryness is and remains a central, carrying pillar of Austrian rescue! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: But you have to make it possible!]] This has been made possible, and we know that we owe not only respect but also thanks, help and support to the 30 000 volunteer workers of the rescue companies in Austria. These employees can rely on us on this question of social democrats! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God, if I listen to the Guggi, I’ll get my heart out! This is his last speech here!]] But we are also guilty of those who mainly practice this responsible and heavy profession. It is not to be seen that those who are always praised in Sunday's speeches and who are always told how important they are are are are under the employment law of an auxiliary worker! For this we are no longer Social Democrats! We want the main-professional rescuers to have a professional protection in the future. They deserve him! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Many comments have been made in the discussion, which should be forgotten better, for example, by Mrs Secretary-General of the ÖVP, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who spoke of an "exemplary dirty campaign of the trade unions". So please, I mean, she must have followed the wrong debates! The ÖVP head of state of Salzburg, Franz Schausberger, who, in ad in his party newspapers in Salzburg, has gone up for the following comment – I quote – has shot down the bird: The death penalty for the honorary office? No, no, no, The measures planned by SPÖ Minister Hostasch are intended to bring about the death penalty of honorary office in Salzburg. We say no to that! We don't want any main professional red-cross helpers and shooters. We don't want any harassed volunteer fire brigades. We don't want trade unions in the clubs. We take action against the demolition of the voluntaryity and the nationalization of the associations. – End of the quote. I really have to say, I haven't read such a humbug for a long time! It is completely indisputable in human, legal and political terms, what Mr. Landeshuptmann Schausberger writes here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude. Today it is a question of making defibrillation – a difficult word; I rarely bring it out – by means of rescuers possible – a very important thing. This is a common proposal, a common initiative, but I would like to conclude by saying: For us, this is just an precursor to the entire work. I just wish that in the EIA the health politicians have the say again. We have been very close to the trade unions in the last few weeks in our contacts with the rescue organizations, with the countries. I am very confident that we will work together to present a reasonable, acceptable proposal, which is also in the interests of the patients. That's why I'd ask!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16041	Mrs Motter has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16063	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The present government template, with which the Dentist Law is amended, we give our consent, because through this novel to the Dentist Law, the dentists are now legally equaled to the dentists. This means that dentists, who are a non-stop professional group, fall within the scope of the EU Dentist Directives, which is at the same time the basis for their recognition in the EU Member States. Nevertheless, from my point of view, a brief criticism is appropriate, because people without training can also be used as auxiliary persons in both dental and dental matters. This is a manco that I am unfortunately obliged to observe with the dentists, and it is relatively often used by these assistants. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Minister, to create a professional image with appropriate training criteria as soon as possible. We are now again giving our approval to the request of the liberals, who have this in mind. Ladies and gentlemen! On this request concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Law on the Regulation of the Medical and Technical Service and the Sanity Service, I would like to say once again that this request has been made in all hurry and - I cannot express it otherwise - is a lazy compromise, but not as regards the content, but as regards the procedure. I still fear that the long-needed comprehensive law on health will be postponed to the long-term. I like to be taught a better person, but I still have my doubts in this regard. I fear that we will continue to have to wait for a targeted training of the paramedics, for the necessary competence as well as for the necessary legal basis of the persons working in the rescue sector. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, I would like to teach another person, for example, if the date is really observed at the end of February and we have a new template. But so far, I don't believe in it. We welcome this empowerment for defibrillation, but we also note that this measure is far from sufficient, because at present only 9 per cent of rescue workers are adequately trained and able to intervene in emergency situations. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a fact that we are far below the European standard with this level. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals simply see the urgency of finally ensuring the necessary training for nurses in order to free these persons from the permanent legal uncertainty as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it is a fact that a permanent emergency medical service is not available in all federal states. In the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I had the opportunity to draw attention to this manko. I regret that I had to take note of the fact that the Austrian People's Party has clearly placed its interests on the side of the Red Cross organization. Ladies and gentlemen! These interests must never be at the expense of patient safety! It also became clear to me that the preparation of the government template, which was already in the review and was taken back again, failed in the discussion of the country's acquisition of costs. I also had to say that it seems that the main concern of the EIA is the voluntary red-cruce aid. I also recognize this voluntary activity and know that it does not work without honor in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] Mr Khol! However, volunteering must not go at the expense of human life if professional skills need to be in the foreground. The Committee also made clear the gap between the government parties. I am therefore afraid that we will have to wait even further for a comprehensive law on Austrian Rescue. And this, ladies and gentlemen, would be very sad!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16097	Mr Leiner has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16119	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Guggenberger! [[Abg. May. Guggenberger folds the paper in which he has just read.]] Yeah, it's good to see the paper. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: I'm with you!]] Above all, I would like to stress: You must also make it possible to do so! With 1 600 hours of training, we will no longer receive volunteer staff! There's nothing to do with standing down and saying, Come on, dear! Do you even know how difficult it is to get volunteer staff today?- Oh, my God! – I must say that you – including Mrs Mother – sometimes give the impression that we are still somewhere in the Congo with our emergency medical system and the rescue system! [[Lively contradiction at the Liberal Forum.]] We have an excellent rescue system, and our training with the rescuers and in the rescue organizations is excellent! I would like to take this very seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To you again, Mr Guggenberger! It is not true that the requirements have increased. The apparative medicine makes the work easier, the technique is much more advanced, and also the information of patients and the medical care are better, so that today much less happens than before, both on the roads and for example in the establishments. We know that in Austria we have a highly qualified emergency medical care. We can be proud of this, which is a merit of all of us, including politics. Of course: Development is progressing very rapidly. Remember that Burghard Breitner, the great doctor, the "angel of Stalinrad" – he was also a poet – in 1947 still said: "If you come to an accident, don't say you're doctors, but that you're painters, because you can't do anything anyway." – A few years later, the great surgeon Kirschner has already said: "The doctor must be brought to an accident, to an emergency patient!" – Only then did one begin to activate the emergency medicine so properly. In Linz, Professor Bergmann installed the first emergency medical car for his anaesthesia department in 1974, and from Linz the emergency car system has developed. The use of helicopters, the flight rescue, was also very strongly demanded and finally carried out in Innsbruck by university professor Dr. Flora and senior physician Dr. Jenny. It was not until 1978 that an emergency helicopter was used professionally under the name "Martin 1". In 1970 – I wanted to say that – an emergency helicopter system was already installed in Munich. In Austria we only came 13 years later. I would like to say at this point, Mrs Minister: We don't always have to hang back! We must make sure that we drive these systems forward. We have certainly taken a step further with this new law, but that is not all. With regard to defibrillation apparatus: In America and Germany, laymen are already brought into contact with this apparatus and can use it. Why do we still have obstacles in Austria to use them if we could at least put him in the hands of the Gendarmerie, the Fire Department and the police? For these are those people who are the first to come to an emergency, save human lives and take appropriate action. We know very well that the first four minutes are the main minutes at a heart stop that decides on death and life, and that the further measures can only be taken in the next six minutes. After more than ten minutes, defibrillation is no longer useful or is no longer successful. Otherwise, you still have 50 percent success. The aim must be a functioning rescue chain which ensures local defibrillation within 10 minutes. With this law, we have also achieved this goal, so I acknowledge it. We have worked together to ensure that certain groups in the health sector can also make a defibrillation. This has been a long-standing demand of the ÖVP. In February 1998, we held a seminar, and at the time, 70 emergency doctors wrote a resolution to you, Mrs Minister, calling for this semi-automatic early defibrillation. We were comforted on September. In September we had to find that only in late autumn the involvement of rescuers in the draft law came. However, it has not shown any sparks in agreement with the rescue organizations and the countries. He was sent out and taken back because of incompatibility. In addition, at that time the content was a huge blow against the volunteers. There we had to put ourselves vehemently before the rescue organizations and defend the honorary as a pillar of our health system and our society at all. I mean, you have to say that quite clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Leiner's right!]] We hope that this voluntaryity will be guaranteed in the new draft, otherwise we will not be able to agree with the ÖVP of this bill. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] Minister! I still have to present two weaknesses which are anchored in the emergency aid system. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Only two!]] Vulnerability number one is the following: Let's not be content with first-aid training in schools and driving school courses! We must ensure that a multi-annual phase plan motivates people to help. You also need to continue these people's education. However, this must also be linked to the obligation to carry out repetition courses on the main rescue measures. Vulnerability number two relates to the remuneration of emergency medical services. There are large differences in Austria: In Styria 12 s are paid per kilometer, in Tyrol 70 s. Here a simplification or a corresponding cost-covering fee has to be paid. The claims would therefore be as follows: Restructuring the first-aid courses with the introduction of first-aid refresher courses for driver's license holders about every two years, a federal financing and billing of emergency medical missions, and an extension of the implementation of semi-automatic early defibrillation to the Gendarmerie, the Fire Department and the police. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16224	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16245	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! One thing before: We will agree to the Dentist Law. It is only a transitional solution. However, we are concerned that the patient must be very well and clearly aware that he is a dentist and not a dentist. Otherwise, there is no problem in this area, and we will definitely agree. We will also agree with the draft law on creating a certain standard of training and a professional image for medical assistants, because it has been a concern of the Greens for years, that at last even persons working in ordinations have their own professional image and, above all, get a proper payment, which is not the case at present. Now I come to that area, Mrs Minister, where I find it very difficult to agree, but it is better than nothing. We Greens will also vote in favour of the law on health care, but just as it has been sold again today and as it has been in the committee, namely as the big throw, the use of the semi-automatic defibrillation devices by rescuers has now been introduced – Mrs Minister, it is not to be remembered. It's just not like that. Today I have taken such a semi-automatic defibrillation device so that those who don't know what it's about – it's not a tamagotchi that's ringing here – are informed how the application of this semi-automatic machine works. [[the speaker brings out a defibrillation device that gives in intervals sounding sounds of itself]] The fact that there are great sayings today about the training of rescuers at this semi-automatic machine is simply and simply ridiculous, Mrs Minister. I took three to five minutes – and imagine, I control this device! Not only do I control it. In America, for example, this semi-automatic machine is also fixed in every stephouse, where the fire extinguisher is located. The use and operation of this semi-automatic machine, Mrs Minister, is easier than if you had to use a fire extinguisher. That's a fact! As has been said, in America such semi-automatic machines can be found even in casinos, in stairwells and in airplanes. There are a number of places in which these semi-automatic machines are already used and used by people who truly do not have medical training and are not rescuers. In order to see what we are talking about and what this law, which we are going to adopt today, allows or what rescuers may now have, but not dared, I would like to introduce to you, although I am not a rescue anity, the following: There are stations 1, 2, 3 on this device. I'm pressing the green button now. Here you go. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: The green button!]] [[A computer voice gives instructions for the medical steps needed to make defibrillation.]] Here are the electrodes. You only need to stick to the patient's bare chest and then plug in the switch here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: According to the Rules of Procedure, this is not possible!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mr President is very tolerant!]] [[Further calls, while a computer voice can be heard.]] That's it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] This is all you have to be able to do on this device to successfully resuscitate someone who has a heart arrest or has a heart flutter. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] For the operation of this apparatus there is now this law, and it is presumptuous to say who is allowed to serve it and that this person has to complete a comprehensive training of 15 hours. [[the speaker shall keep a copy of the relevant text of the law up to date]] Mrs. Minister! I think it is important that, at last, the Austrian rescuers should also be allowed to operate this device, because I believe that it has long been impossible to understand that if it already hangs in casinos and elsewhere in America, it must not be applied by them in Austria, where rescue patients carry emergency patients. This draft law is already a step forward, but it is really something else to me. There was a first draft of the Rescue Anity Act. This was really a step in the right direction, one could say he was contemporary. I emphasize: was contemporary. Mrs. Minister! We have received in the Committee on Health a sample from ÖVP and SPÖ, for which reason this Code of Rescue could not come about, not because there are large organizations that really refuse to train rescuers accordingly and well. No one here in the hall will question the honorality of people in the field of health transport. We need these volunteers not only now, but also in the future. Mrs. Minister! However, there must be a clear distinction between the tasks of rescuers and those of the medical transport system. Rescuers, who are often able to save or save human lives, are never more professionally trained with the current training and also because of the new proposal of the Red Cross, that they can really act in a serious case. I do not think it is a secret that, for example, a caregiver in a hospital who washes, wipes out the night's box and cleans the immediate environment of the bed, which may be employed as a helper at the hospital or in the outpatient area, has a training of 1 800 hours. A rescuer has a training of 135 to 335 hours! Mrs. Minister! If we look at the gap between these two training lines, it must be in the interests of the patients and in the interest of the rescuers that the latter should at last be trained well, intensively and high-quality. Due to the proposal of the Red Cross, which is not yet official, but which has nevertheless come to me in written form, no rescue anity will be properly trained in the future. Mrs. Minister! We need a job for rescuers, and we need professional protection for rescuers. These two requirements are no longer to be postponed, but must be met immediately. Mrs. Minister! They have promised that by the end of February there will be a draft for a new rescue anity law. We don't need a new draft for a rescue law, there's already one. We should discuss the old design and stop reinventing the wheel. In this sense, I am convinced that it would be an unacceptable step back if we were to enter into a discussion which was far below the objectives of the previous year's draft. I know that the resistance, especially in the EIA, is very great. I therefore know because we have been presented in committee. But I would like to say again: No rescuer, no one volunteer helper will no longer be necessary in the future – quite the contrary: they will all continue to be necessary! Only everyone should do what they are trained for. In the future, of course, it will no longer be possible for lay helpers, for example, to work in the rescue industry. In the future, however, lay workers or volunteer workers will also be needed for health services, for "eating on wheels", for social services et cetera. That's why I'd be glad if the volunteers were to receive us in the future. Mrs. Minister! I have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution on the re-regulation of training and the creation of a career for rescuers. I would now like to read this motion for a resolution: Since autumn 1998 there has been a draft of the Ministry of Health for the re-regulation of the training of rescuers. The assessment period has ended, but only a small minimum requirement will be dealt with in the form of an application in the Committee on Health. The rest of the draft is currently on ice. The statistics of the aid organizations show that between 300 000 and 400 000 emergency patients are not given emergency care each year. A law allowing non-medical staff to take lifesaving measures until hospital arrival is therefore urgently necessary. This draft would mean a dramatic increase in the quality of patient care. Mrs. Minister! This motion for a resolution is in the sense of the patients. Although it will be cost-effective – that is undisputed – especially during the first time through the qualified training of rescuers, I think these costs are justified if we consider that a day at an intensive care station will cost between 10 000 S and 20 000 S. This qualified training of rescuers brought this money back in a very short time, as patients would not have to be in the hospital for so long, because they would be provided with the appropriate quality during transport to the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16345	Mrs. Colleague! If you would like to add to the motivation for the request you have read so far the actual request! These are the lines before the signatures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16360	The motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Hostasch! Since it is planned to have a draft on this subject until 28. I believe that it is not a problem for SPÖ and ÖVP to agree to this request, because they are planning to submit a draft one month earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16411	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Lacner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16436	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are today adopting an amendment to the Law on Sanitary Assistance for the purpose of early defibrillation by paramedics as an urgent concern. This measure will be – and that will not be particularly surprising for you – my undivided consent. However, this urgent concern should only be seen as a prelude to a comprehensive re-regulation of this problem and should also be understood in this way; a restriction which I have already deposited in the Committee on Health. I refer here to an agreement with the EIA, on whose content I still stand, and hope that we will be able to reach the 28th. A draft law on this matter could be submitted to Parliament on February 1999. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the examination process on the draft ministerial draft and in the run-up to today's meeting, much was said about the "death for the honorary office" by this legislative measure on the re-regulation of the "sanity" profession. The bird, as Mr Guggenberger has already suggested, was shot down by the head of state of Salzburg, which the Minister of State, Hostasch, by means of this planned measure, has virtually assumed that this would put honoraryness at risk. He goes on to write quite loosely: We want there to continue to be volunteer workers in the state of Salzburg in the rescue services, the shooters, the volunteer fire brigade, as well as in the sports, social and cultural sectors. – Mr Rasinger, it was really not known to me to this day that the shooters and athletes, too, should be converted into rescue ants or emergency ants with competence, probably the relevant passage in the law has missed me. But I'm going to be happy to let you tell me about it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is clear from this point of view that: The intention of this law was never an in-question position of honoraryness in this area, so that it is clear once and for all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Leiner is not present. At the height of the media coverage on this subject, I also naturally went to discussions with the Red Cross bodies and led very constructive talks with the volunteers and general medical staff involved. I really cannot say that there has been great rejection in these discussions, so that the people concerned have not been able to agree with this draft government. On the contrary! I was asked to continue in this direction. I have, of course, been happy to comply with this request, and I am still ready to continue working on the fact that this bill of law will be passed on to this House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me make a few comments: Of course, many useful findings on this problem have been made in the review process. In the following discussions with the organizations, countries and trade unions, a major approach to this problem could therefore be reached, and I think this is a very important step forward. I am therefore quite optimistic that by the end of February, i.e. until the agreed date, a draft law in this House can and will also be adopted. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16494	Mrs Povysil has also spoken. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16515	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To request defibrillation by MTF and SHD you can only say the following: It is a fast-paced emergency solution in a coalition dispute between Red and Black, which has been ongoing for months. And only if no patient is harmed in the event of an emergency, we agree to this request. However, despite the completion of the review period, no agreement has been reached on the draft Federal Law on the Training and Vocational Training of the Sanitary. In total, it is to be said: The form of policy presented by the government parties on this issue is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable! This is not a policy for the citizen, it is not a policy to which we can say! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ÖVP and SPÖ are talking about this issue. We have acted and have chosen a somewhat unusual procedure in the Rules of Procedure, which I would like to explain once again, because Mrs Dr. Pittermann, who is unfortunately no longer present, obviously did not fully understand this Rules of Procedure, as is apparent from her press service. [[Abg. Grabner: She was there all the time! On the other hand, they were not there all the time!]] Well, I also spoke to Dr. Pittermann and not me. And she's not present at the moment! We have chosen a procedure according to § 27 GOG, i.e. a self-employed application, accompanied by the complete ministerial draft, including the points which are disputed in the committee from a liberal point of view. What would have been possible? – It would have been possible to discuss the audited draft of this long-term reform of the health services in the Committee. What happened? – It is incredible, but under the current government their own ministerial drafts are rejected! And what is it about in the final effect? – In order to achieve a speedy solution to calm the citizen because a comprehensive law cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16563	Mr Rasinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16606	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, What I have heard today has more affected me, because it has been said as if Austrian Rescue had third-world level. I believe we can say without exaggeration that we have a world-class level there! In 1986, Minister Lösnak introduced emergency medical training – we must not forget that because I think that is very crucial! Helicopters save thousands of people a year – their presence is important because it does not benefit anyone if there are trained emergency doctors, but nothing to bring the victims to them at all! And thirdly, Hundreds, if not more than a thousand doctors, have completed emergency medical courses, and the hospitals as part of this chain can provide accident victims much better. So let's stop getting sick of our existing emergency system! What you, Mrs. Haidlmayr – I appreciate You very –, just listed, was health-political Tamagotchi playing, really! I've been a practical doctor for 15 years, but I still have respect for every emergency today. You do not happen very often, but if there is one, you have a maximum of three to four minutes to react. Once someone fell in front of a thousand people at a ball. Do you know how many people helped? - Zero, just me! Of a thousand people! We keep experiencing that people are afraid. This is not so easy that you can access somewhere in the emergency and read the operating instructions first. Your heart's racing, your hands sweat, you're nervous. That's not a daily situation! That is why what you did before is absolutely not serious, namely to say that it would be so easy. It's not that easy! And it is also not true that in America there is a defibrillator everywhere. That's just not right! I quote – you should always be precise, and that's why I'm trying to do it: The American Heart Association, a heart society, estimates that it is possible to save 350 000 lives in Austria – that is, 10,000 people in Austria – that the union has also claimed, but has not read it to the end – if such a defibrillator is everywhere in reach. - Quote. One of these devices alone costs 35 000 S to 70 000 S! Who's got something like that in this room? What if someone fell over here? The most important measure of First Aid – you know that very well, and you should repeat that again and again, even Günther Leiner has already said it – is to clear the respiratory tracts and carry out a mouth-to-mouth breathing. If you don't do a heart massage, you have exactly three to five minutes, then it's over with your brain. Then you can bring together so much cardiovascular with the defibrillator, you produce an apallic. We must take note of this! This problem is completely overstated and as if we in Austria were on a third world level in this regard. I'm annoyed, and I'm telling you, too, because I think you're higher. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Gredler and Mr Mag. Guggenberger.]] The same applies to the comments made by Mrs Motter – I very much appreciate them – such as narrow-track variants, delay in time and so on. I think we should take time to make a proper law. We should learn from the experiences in Germany. The Pope of German Emergency Medicine, Professor Sevrin, told me that the proposals put forward by the ÖVP were not so unreasonable at all, because in Germany, by an over-educated law, because of which the real need had passed, problems arose, and the honoraryness has now been completely reduced. Do you know what's become of it? – There is neither the principal nor the volunteer, but no help at all! Is that the alternative? – I say: No, no, no, [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Faith You're telling me: I have respect for life, a lot of respect! My colleagues in the EIA also want rapid help, but we also want competent help. And to assume that we really don't care and only the large organizations have pulled the ÖVP over the table is absurd. Faith Do you really think that Günther Leiner and I and Mrs Rauch-Kallat are so childish that we are just talking about lobbyism? Every human being is worth a lot to me, and if we can only save one, then we will do so. We will also help the Minister with proposals that can be implemented. For this it has my word and the word of the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16664	Mrs Gredler has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16685	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is necessary to deal with this issue in an emotional way. We agree that we wish everyone who has a heart arrest to receive competent help as soon as possible. And if the defibrillator is the best device that can be used in this situation, you should also use it. Just, you have to be sure of what you have to do. And my criticism concerns the time of training. For it is not about knowing on which button you must press to set the device in motion, and in which place the patient's body these two elements are to be applied, but whether I am quite sure that the use of this device in the respective situation is the right measure. You can't, I think, learn that exactly in 15 hours as you need it! What I wish for is that, in such cases of emergency, good communication with first aid units can be achieved by radio. The medicament or the medicament should announce by radio what kind of situation he/she has found so that he/she can be given precise instructions by radio, in coordination with a specialist who has been trained for this purpose, which he/she has to follow. And then, if it's called defibrilizing, of course, these people should also be defibrilled. But I fear that everyone who has one, we say, does not have so clearly tangible pulse is definitely defibrilled, without really questioning whether this treatment is appropriate or not and whether this person may not have another problem. I therefore believe that this should be more careful. It is not true that this device would not be desirable. It is desirable, but it must be served by the right hands, and above all, these people, namely the paramedics or nurses, must be prepared very carefully for the situation that a person's life is in their hands or not. I consider a regulation with radio to be a decisive measure. It must be possible to establish a communication that has to take place during work in the patient. And I think that in this regard we have the biggest manko in Austria, but we could do something about it. I would like to talk briefly about the Dentist law, which represents a necessary adaptation. § 6 seems very unhappy to me, because it means that the term dentist, as shown in parentheses, is: Dentist, can use. But the dentists have a limited range of tasks compared to the dentists, especially as regards the surgical skills. And that's why, I think, it's rather confusing for the patient if no precise differentiation is made. Because of this name equality, it is impossible for the patient to know, as it were, that this person is subject to legal restrictions in the surgical sector to which a dentist is not subject. On this point, I believe that the law has been missed. Otherwise, of course, we will also follow the presentation and support it so that the necessary adaptation to the EU takes place. Thirdly, the Liberal Party's request: It was, as you know from Klara Motter, formulated by us a similar request, which unfortunately, because of the insight of the coalition parties, God's has been thrown away in the trash bin for a long time. It is absolutely necessary that the professional image of the medical assistants as well as the dental assistants – I do not know yet any helpers, but hopefully it will soon be adapted for men to take up this profession – so that he becomes at least a teaching profession if not even other careers should be created. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I met in America in dental ordinations the professional image of the ordination manager. This is also available in other ordinations. I think that this is an absolutely necessary development, which should be taken into account more precisely. If the ordination units grow when several doctors work in these units, then you need something like a manager. Whether this is not a professional image that would fit into a university of science, I would like to put it in the room. I am only afraid that the resistance will be quite large, because any better training means more money. We must increase salaries, something that I consider to be an absolute necessity. The salaries currently paid to these women are far too low. I'm just saying "these women" because it's quite typical: It is a woman's profession and therefore less worth it! I think it is an insolence to remand such a responsible position in such a bad way. The work force has changed, and these women have to be able to do much more today than before. They have much more devices to operate and to wait, they need to develop new skills. I know this from my own ordination, where the computer suddenly moved in and – peng! – the helpers of mine were of course "needed" to also use the computer. They are very happy to do this now, but nevertheless, it is an additional burden with the need for training, a training which has not been done in this form before. I would like you, Mrs Federal Minister, to give these women the opportunity as soon as possible to describe their profession in such a way that salaries too are adequately designed. I know that there is support in the SPÖ on this matter, and I would also very much like the support of the EIA in this matter. I hope that you will prevail if you nod now, because I believe that this will open up a field of responsibility for women – and perhaps even for men!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16751	Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16772	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been repeatedly pointed out that this proposed amendment to the MTF-SHD law will in future, among other things also qualified volunteers, enable this debated defibrillator application. That's good. This will probably save more human lives. It is equally important for me, however, that this request by the government groups initiates the creation of a comprehensive law on health care. I am confident that, as agreed, a coordinated draft will be available to the National Council by the end of February. And if it is not until the end of February, then perhaps until after the country elections in Salzburg, then there is no longer any reason for the Salzburg head of state to put the honorary office to death. I would like to point out once again – and again before me too – this penetrating signature action, in which the Salzburger Landeshuptmann cites: We want that in the future, too, in the Federal State of Salzburg, these voluntary employees exist comprehensively for all associations. – No, Mr. Landeshuptmann! We want this not only for the federal state of Salzburg, the SPÖ wants this, of course, for the whole of Austria, and it has also made active contributions to it in the past. It is already very strange when that comes from the same party, which only a few months ago – here there is a certain degree of duality recognizable – precisely this voluntaryity, and even more so, wanted to liquidate the clubs in the question of the tent festivals throughout the world. It is, as I mean, a difference whether we are discussing the honorary office in connection with any sports or cultural associations or in the question of life-saving institutions. I think we should agree that rescue training should have a different value. Especially the use of the volunteer and this training was very often discussed in the past, and many figures were colported. Only they were, as I mean, not very serious. As I have done in the Committee, I would like to point out here again: I have made the effort and raised numbers – honest numbers. I have done this very comprehensively for a district in my federal state of Burgenland, and I can assume that the result is the same for the whole country and that the situation is the same in other Austrian states. I should therefore like to mention the figures for this one district: The 1997 Performance Report has 344 volunteers. In fact, about 130 of these work in the rescue service. The rest are local managers, officials, persons employed in the social service or are cartels. As far as hours of service are concerned, this performance report, which has been published, lists more than 46 000. In fact, about half of them – about 24,000 – were documented in writing. We have every reason to assume that this number is correct, especially since these hours are also - although not very high - taught. Converting the 46,000 hours given would mean that more than five hours a day are served 24 hours. But this is not nearly the case. As regards the operations, their number is given at 21 700. I would like to save you the exact division, and I would just like to say that 5 000 of the contributions made by the volunteers are registered. That is, these 5,000 missions are made by 130 volunteers. If you look at these 5,000 missions a little more precisely, you realize that about 90 percent of them, namely, 4 400, are performed by only 22 very dedicated volunteers. We also note that one third of these 22 persons have already completed emergency training. I also know that these very dedicated employees are ready to continue their training in a very comprehensive way. That there is great willingness to continue training also proves the number of hours these people are already doing. This number is in the range of 200 to 800 hours. This means that the remaining 110 volunteers make only 10 percent of the work, some 600. 1 789 volunteers are registered throughout Burgenland. In fact, 370 are employed in the rescue service, i.e. about 20 percent. If one considers this number more precisely, one third of it, about 123, makes up to three stakes. In view of these figures, I would like to ask Dr. Rasinger and Dr. Leiner: Where is the honorary office to be delimited? – I believe that once someone is in service for 25 minutes or an hour, and most of this takes time off, one cannot talk about an honorary office, at least not of an honorary office, which is exercised responsibly. It must not be crucial where an accident occurs and who comes along with this rescue vehicle. We may not be able to recognize this until we are ourselves affected. But we don't want to wait for it. Even from Carinthia, where the situation is similar to that in Burgenland, there are figures. There are also figures from Lower Austria where there appear in a district 180 reported volunteers, of whom 40 are actually in the rescue service. I believe that the figures show that some in the past have overlaid this issue very much and, above all, have discussed it without proper basis. However, I assume that these discussions have ended and that we are now discussing at a different level. I am convinced that the discussions already started on the new law on sanity will be concluded in a good climate and, above all, with good results. I should like to congratulate Mrs Bundesminister and all her colleagues on this draft. It represents a clear, transparent and transparent module system. It takes into account the requirements of the main and voluntary medicaments and also ensures an optimal system of care for our population. Finally, I would like to point out that this draft is already a compromise and that we must be very careful with further cuts. Finally, we want the medicaments to be finally liberated from the permanent legal uncertainty that life-saving measures are not only carried out sometime later on arrival at the hospital and that, of course, any volunteer can find his place in this system afterwards. Above all, it is important for us to ensure an optimal supply system for the population. I am convinced that, in the next few weeks, the coalition will once again prove its ability to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16837	Mr Dr. Kurzmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16859	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my brief remarks, I will deal mainly with the item on the agenda 6, the application concerning the level of training and the professional image of medical and dental assistants. Unfortunately, in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, this proposal has not found a majority. But that doesn't say anything about his quality: Many useful proposals are not in this House, or are not yet able to do so. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the Members of my group have already asked for this increased professional qualification several times in the past. To date, however, these efforts have not been crowned by success, because the competent Federal Ministry has always delayed the development of a professional image or put it in view for a later date. That is why the Federal Ministers did not tell us in committee either. I really do not understand why no clarification has been made on this question, because it would be in the interest of the women who work in this profession in particular. It was not even necessary to reinvent the wheel, because both the Austrian Society for General Medicine and the professional association of medical and dental assistants have presented concepts on this point. However, I would like to highlight another important aspect. In fact, it should be in the interest of a reasonable social policy to contribute to the fight against high unemployment in our country, in particular to the reduction of women's unemployment. The teaching profession of the doctor would not only lead to a better qualification, but would perhaps also create about 1,500 new apprenticeships. It is not clear to me how a party, which is supposed to be trying to do jobs in this way, can make this argument a long-term one. In view of the fact that this idea is by no means dissuasive, a multi-party agreement in the Styria seems to me to be a clear indication. The Steiermärkische Landtag held its meeting on 15. In December 1998, with the votes of the Freeman, the Social Democrats and the People's Party, it decided to approach the Federal Government with a view to initiating measures to create the teaching profession of medical assistants. I would like to go back to Graz tomorrow and report on Friday at the reopening of the new eye clinic in the state hospital that the National Council has joined the opinion of the Landtag on this issue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, let me make a brief comment on the rescue anity law. The frequent defibrillation is currently running as a Styrian model experiment. I think this is an important measure to save lives. But this is simply not enough for the whole subject area that should have been dealt with. It is a coalition compromise, a very narrow compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16908	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16929	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the demonstration of colleague Haidlmayr to the application of the heart recovery apparatus should say that this is supposedly so easy for children, then I believe that it is simply a devaluation of the principal and the volunteer sanitizers in our country. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true! That's not true!]] Because it is not easy for children – I know this from my own experience: My husband is a rescuer, and this application is not so easy. I think that it should be said on this point that there has been a pilot project in the Styria for six months, carried out on the initiative of Mrs. Waltraud Klasnic, the head of the doctor of the Styrian Red Cross. This pilot project has shown that this device is useful and necessary. Meanwhile, there are 48 devices in 318 rescue cars in the Styria. These devices were in use 53 times, whereby eight people could be delivered alive, but of which unfortunately – and this also shows that there is no "lightness of being" – only three survived. I hope that there will now be funding throughout Austria to consider how these devices can be purchased so that this important measure can be taken. We all know that this is the first step in relation to the entire upcoming legislative novel. But now to the professional image of medical assistants. Mr Kurzmann says he would like to go back to Styria and say that is now decided and done. I can only say: I'd like to do that too, but it's not that simple. I think it takes a lot of time. For example, I've already been on 30. In June 1997 a request was made to Mrs Hostasch on the initiative of the Steiermärkische Landtag, and at that time she confirmed to me, also with regard to the doctor's assistants, but first of all with regard to the dentist's assistants, that there are no legal regulations for dentists, and that the creation of legal bases for dental assistants seems necessary from a professional point of view. Implementation of the extensive preparatory work already carried out in this area was envisaged. - That was 30. ==References== We believe and hope – and we support Mrs. Minister for a while; we have patience – that she will also bring it in, and that we will then, together in committee, first and foremost, bring the professional image to the stage for dentists and subsequently also for physicians. However, I warn against believing that this may bring about a change in salary. I think if, for example, it's in the 17th century. A collective contract remuneration of only 14 800 s is available in the professional year, then you have to start there and bring about a better collective contractual arrangement for the dentists. I think, of course, that the professional image of this training is also important because there are very large variations in Austria. In Tyrol, for example, training is 62 hours, whereas in Styria it is at least 216 hours. These dentists must also be able to support their 40-hour week. There is also support from our Dr. Leiner, who is also expressed in the form of a press release. I am therefore convinced that, together with Mr Rasinger and the members of the Committee on Health, we will agree if Mrs Hostasch submits a proposal in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16965	Mrs Buder has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16986	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would also like to refer to item 4 on the agenda on the part of our group, the amendment to the Dentist Law. This will achieve the legal equality of dentists with the dentists and the implementation of the Dentists' Dentists' Dentists' Dentists' Dentists' Dentist Guidelines. This amendment amends the professional image, the right to work and the professional title. In addition, the amendment includes the elimination of provisions no longer applicable, in particular those relating to dentist training, which are no longer available. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment also includes necessary vocational adaptations to the professional laws of other health professions, in particular with regard to professional rights, professional residences, auxiliary persons and criminal provisions. As with the EEA or EU accession of Austria for the profession of the dentist, which is harmonised by EU directives, we now also have our own study of dentistry with the conclusion of "Dr. dent." This amendment is a legal adaptation to the EU system. Dentists are legally equalised to dentists and are thus given the basis for recognition in the other EEA Member States. Dentists are only available in Austria and Germany. In Germany, equality between dentists and dentists took place in the mid-fifties. In Germany and Austria, South Tyrol dentists have also been trained, which are now largely active in South Tyrol. The implementation of the Dentists' Directives in the Dentist Law also takes into account these dentists in South Tyrol, because the now planned equality of dentists with dentists should also be applied to the South Tyrolean Dentists and allow them a comprehensive professional exercise. Ladies and gentlemen! There were 450 dentists in Austria at the end of 1990. This novelle concerns around 260 dentists in Austria, and these, since there is no training anymore, are actually a disintegrating professional group. In Austria, the University Study Act 1997 established the basis for an EU-compliant dentist's study. With the new Medical Law 1998, the dentist has an independent medical profession. As this amendment to the Dentist Act provides clear legislation for this professional group and does not incur any additional costs, we very much agree with the social democrats of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17027	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17048	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few comments on the current proposals. It was discussed by you the Dentist Law. Hiezu a maybe also interesting information for you: There are currently about 270 practicing dentists. They know that this profession of the Dentist, except in Austria and Germany, does not exist in any of the EU countries and therefore seemed necessary to harmonise professional rights. The new forms of training are already ensured by national legislation in relation to studies. Allow me also to make a brief comment on the considerations regarding the doctor's assistants or dental assistants. A study has already been mentioned by Mrs Steibl. I would like to update this study now and expect the updated version shortly. On the basis of the updated state, I will then be able to design the new profession and to undergo the political discussion or review. I hope that, with your support, I will be able to keep my schedule so that my intention to regulate this profession clearly and thus create a clear legal requirement for the ladies and gentlemen concerned can be realized in the foreseeable future. However, allow me to refer to the question of the doctor's assistants – I give all those who believe it is primarily a question of medical assistants – that this profession is regulated within the framework of the health professions within the health care services and therefore cannot be addressed a teaching profession within the meaning of our dual vocational training system for such an activity. If I have the request of the Steiermärkische Landtag, then there will be a discussion on this issue between the health resort and the Steermärkische Landtag, in which we will deal with how to consider Styria. I can only refer to the framework conditions applicable to the health care services. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few brief comments on the law on the health care system, and allow me to state with all clarity: Without the voluntary commitment of our citizens, our democracy would not be so valuable, qualitatively not so good, and the interaction in our society would not work in its present form. So a clear commitment to volunteering! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, here in the House, to be clear and clearly opposed to the fact that my place of business is to be opposed to volunteering, to hinder or to put in jeopardy, or to provide for initiatives at the legal level with this intention. I ask with all due respect to take note of the fact that I am not aware of it – also in the sense of my employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is the responsibility of a health centre, a health minister, to ensure that legal framework conditions are created to ensure that voluntary and principal rescue organizations can develop their commitment on a good, clear legal basis and that our exemplary life-saving system, which I give to Mr Rasinger, remains exemplary in the future. The protection and best care of patients must have absolute priority. It is therefore very important, I believe, that we not only decide today on this first part-session in relation to defibrillation, but that the whole law, as it is currently under discussion, can be discussed and decided in the House as soon as possible. I will do everything I can to comply with the timetable for the conclusion of the negotiations by the end of February so that decision-making is possible. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make the following comment on this debate: I had believed that we were at a stage of discussion and also of joint consensus. If I address the point of consensus, I could make a long list of those concerned – the countries, some ministries, the rescue organizations, not least the two government parties and many more – who are called on to achieve a common result, which is ultimately accepted by everyone. But I had hoped that with the information on the intention of the law, on the specific content, we would have reached the objective level again. However, Mr Leiner, Mr President, I am sorry that I am speaking to you so directly, the impression that this law, which is still under discussion, is intended to prescribe 1 600 hours for the training of medicaments, which I do not regard as fair, because it prevents us from being able to continue a very correct discussion in this form and to bring it to a conclusion. 1 600 hours of training are included in a module system, which includes very flexible, from one module to the other module, the highest quality level of professional use, "necessary persons with emergency expertise". But the impression has been raised – at least from my point of view – as if there were a level of training of 1,600 hours indistinct here. I don't think there should be any more such irritations. We should try to achieve a common result: for the patients, for the volunteers, for those who are mainly doing, and for the rescue organizations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We do not have a final word on the part of the rapporteurs and therefore we are entering the voting procedure. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Dentist Law, including the title and receipt in 1578 of the Supplements. Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part of the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Pumberger and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 6 para. 1 in Z 8. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall therefore vote on this part of the draft law now in the version of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This happens unilaterally. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This too is unique. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Regulation of the Medical and Technical Service and the Medical Assistance Service, together with the title and receipt in 1579 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done in a single light. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft approval at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This approval is also unanimous. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the re-regulation of training and the creation of a career for rescuers. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1580. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report of the Federal Government (III-149 of the Supplements) on the situation of Austrian agriculture 1997 pursuant to Section 9 of the Agricultural Law 1992 (Green Report 1997) (1533 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17246	I'm calling the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speech is by Mrs Aumayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17276	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing today a two-year-old report and an agricultural policy which is not from yesterday, but rather from yesterday. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This policy is therefore a priority because it has led farmers instead of freedom to rely on public funding and to bureaucracy! And not just that: With more and more tax money, the EIA's agricultural policy is destroying more and more jobs in agriculture. 8 000 to 10 000 jobs in agriculture are destroyed annually. It is particularly grotesque, however, that the incomes of the remaining farmers continue to remain behind the incomes of other occupations. In the Green Report 1997 it is black and white: In 1997, farmers earned about half the amount they should have earned according to the Green Report. A self-employed farmer receives 14 000 S per month, a worker employed in the industry receives 28 000 S. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] The pensions look just as dramatic: Farmers' pensions amount to 7,500 S, occupational pensions are 12 300 S, employees are 14 000 S. According to poverty report, 30 percent of farm families are already below the poverty line, i.e. every third farm family. Federal Minister! This is really a political evidence of poverty for you and for the entire ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, almost 70 percent of agricultural income is already financed by public funding; At the beginning of 1990 it was still 10 percent. Agenda 2000 will further strengthen this path to dependence, which will provide for price reductions of up to 30 percent and will only partly be offset by public funding. Damage to the Austrian peasantry: 2 to 3 billion schilling and a further dependence on public funds. What does Mr. Landeshauptrepresentative of Upper Austria do, Mr. Dr. Leitl? – He left the peasants on 18 November. January 1999 in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten): "Agriculture cannot finance itself on a long-term basis." – This is what your own party colleague, Mr Federal Minister, says, but you are making a policy with which you want to keep the farmers dependent for the long term. That's exactly what you're doing! With Agenda 2000, you will finally lead the farmers to the Sackgasse, Federal Minister, and you know that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Turn around at last! This path leads to the ruin of the Austrian peasantry! As the Federal Minister of Agriculture, they are obliged to the Austrian farmers and not any international corporations and lobbyists in Brussels! A cigarette already costs more than a kilo of wheat. A chewing gum costs more than a kilo of wheat. Federal Minister! These are the consequences of your policy. That's a disaster! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The bureaucracy has adopted dimensions as in countries where the planning economy is on the agenda. Federal Minister! You have degraded the farmers to servants, to servants of bureaucrats in Austria, Brussels and Strasbourg! While farmers' incomes are falling dramatically and tens of thousands of jobs are being destroyed in agriculture, administrative costs explode. According to a September 1998 IHS study, the total cost of the agricultural system, i.e. the cost of the Ministry of Agriculture, the EU administrative burden, the management of funding, the control costs et cetera, was for an independent farmer in 1996 and write 280 000 S! Federal Minister! 280 000 S administrative costs per self-employed farmer are as much as two self-employed farmers earn in one year's hard work. [[Abg. That's incredible!]] It's really indescribable! And that's your policy, Minister of State! In 1994, before EU accession, administrative costs were 90 percent less at 148 000 S! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I do not quote from a liberal study, but I quote from the September 1998 IHS study. This study has confirmed all our arguments against EU agricultural policy. Black on white stands here: In particular, the diversity of EU policies has increased the need for advice by 100 percent. The work effect of this policy, Mr Federal Minister, on the other hand, is zero, no, it even goes into the minus 10,000 jobs per year! And the income effect, Mr. Federal Minister, is also reflected in a minus year after year. You, Mr. Federal Minister, have become a minus man for the Austrian peasantry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] That's your own study! You probably don't know her at all, Mr. Cot. This system really screams after a change, but you, Federal Minister, stand deaf. They talk about multinational land-based farming and operate the opposite. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: You probably mean "multifunctional"!]] – Multifunctional. Sorry! – You only have more tags left for the farmers! You also have the forehead, Mr Federal Minister, that you recommend to the farmers that they seek a second and a third stand. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] By the way, Minister of State: With this demand, you are giving yourself a bad witness. For such a proposal has not yet been made by a single Federal Minister. What would the teachers say, for example, if Federal Minister Gehrer said: "If you cannot live of your salary, then go to the factory or become a salesman!"? [[Abg. Eder: Not all that hangs is a comparison!]] It is really immense what you think of the farmers and the farmers. For also the acquisition at the court, Mr. Federal Minister, means an infinite amount of additional work, especially for the farmers. There are many farmers who, in addition to childcare, old-age care and stable work, no longer have a free minute. These women are fixed and ready. Farmers have the worst health status of all occupational groups. And they have the forehead, and let them judge on television, that they should work even more to have a second, third, fourth leg. This is really a scandal, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Federal Minister! The EU's agricultural policy has failed! Furthermore, this EU agricultural system is extremely vulnerable to fraud. Billions disappear into dark channels. Therefore, the freedom of movement for a renationalisation of agricultural income policy while at the same time reducing contributions to Brussels is a command of the hour. In the meantime, this already demands the scientific advisory board of the Federal Ministry of Bonn. However, you, Federal Minister, are still in the political winter sleep. At last you'll be finer! The second free movement requirement for a base amount for every job in agriculture is also a command of the hour. 280 000 S of administrative costs per farmer are quite simply an insanity! 150,000 registered establishments per year in the European Union are a shame! Federal Minister! Do you really want to see a further 150,000 unemployed farmers in the EU's 18 million unemployed every year? – This is the absolutely wrong way! One more thing, Minister of State: Finally, answer the promises you gave to the farmer! [[Abg. Madl: When did the ÖVP ever make promises?]] Stop breaking contracts! What about VAT adjustment? They already owe the farmers 7 billion schilling! Finally lower the price for the diesel fuel! At last, adjust the unit values! All these are promises you gave to the farmer! But They sacrifice the farmers of Austria on the altar of the coalition, namely your coalition partner. You just want to rule with me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to say: They alone have the responsibility of the ÖVP to assume responsibility for this disastrous policy, because they represent all the decisive politicians and occupy all the crucial functions in this area. An ÖVP man is Commissioner in Brussels, ÖVP-Man Molterer is Federal Minister, all agricultural councils and all the presidents of the agricultural chambers are from the ÖVP. As a result, you are solely responsible for the decline of the Austrian peasantry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals will fight against it, I can tell you! Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! On behalf of the Austrian peasantry, I urge you to: Stop You're doing this! Stop bringing the Austrian farmers to the poverty line or below the poverty line! Turn around! If you are committed to an agricultural policy in which Austria regains freedom of action and with which the peasantry can be promoted and the survival can be guaranteed, not only the survival of the large industry in agriculture, but also ensure that a land-based agricultural agriculture in Austria is once again possible!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17455	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Schwarzböck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17479	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For hours we were able to experience a very constructive debate, especially on the last items on the agenda on Dentist law and training in the field of the honorary service. Then, as a farmer's representative and as a farmer, it really hurts in the heart when the first speaker of the agricultural debate once again brings such an unhappiness to the political problem of a peasantry struggling with structural change, that it is a pity for the time you have spent on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the Freedom Party, renationalisation basically represents no one in the European agricultural policy and in the context of the reform of Agenda 2000. You see how "serious" this position is represented. Although she was in discussion, she came into the background. We are discussing, on the basis of the 1997 report on the situation of agriculture and forestry, the conclusions we can draw from this review of the problems of the present and future. And it is undisputed, Mrs Aumayr, that there was a reduction in income after the 1995 increase in income in 1996, 1997 and 1998. That is why we need to do everything we can to get back to a corresponding income increase. [[Abg. Aumayr: What are you doing?]] In the way you presented it, however, you do not help anyone, because there is no longer the extremity to an investment activity, as we also had in the agricultural sector in 1997! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: What are you doing? Do something at last!]] Above all, we have to do everything we can to master the crisis-like phenomena in large production with their negative income effects. [[Abg. Aumayr: You are the crisis!]] I am glad that, in the area of the real existential threat to the income situation of our pig producers, it was possible to intervene with political feasibility, namely with a degressive price adjustment and with aid deliveries to Russia, which were given yesterday in the Management Committee of the European Commission, in order to at least some extent to bring the situation to a halt or counter it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] We will have to deal with this problem for months to come, and it is likely that this crisis will also be a heavy burden for the current year 1999. But, of course, an overall package – both with national measures and with the reform projects of the agenda – needs to be established so that we can cope with these developments in the next few years. [[Abg. Aumayr: The farmers are ready!]] The demands are on the table. It is quite clear that, as part of the tax reform negotiations, we are also negotiating intensively the compensation of VAT problems with a volume of between 1 and 1.5 billion. I also agree with you that there must be something to be done in the area of cost relief for diesel. It is clear, of course, that we fully support the Minister in his offensive for renewable raw materials in order to come together with the mineral oil industry for the addition of biogenic components such as rape oil. [[Abg. Wenitsch: We noticed that!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the focus of interest will, of course, be on the negotiations for Agenda 2000, which will create the framework of the EU's common agricultural policy for the next six years. It is all to do – and we will be very committed to doing so – so that the model "European agriculture" is realized. We need a Europe-centered reform of agriculture in the interests of farmers, in the interests of consumers, in the interests of further development of this culturally unique continent, which, in terms of the form we operate agriculture, has any comparison with overseas countries. These may have purely economic advantages in the area of economically large-scale agriculture there or there, but in view of today's overall task of agriculture in multifunctional interconnecting in a modern industrial society, this European model is the Europe-centered reform with Agenda 2000 the model that we must lead to a reasonable political result in the coming weeks and months. [[Abg. Wenitsch: In fact!]] In this respect, it is necessary to maintain a clear basis for financing and guaranteed by agricultural guidelines in parallel with the negotiations of the Agriculture Ministers in ECOFIN in the area of finance ministers. [[Abg. Aumayr: Minus 30 percent for cattle, minus 20 percent for cereals!]] Of course, we need a reasonable relationship between quantity control and price assurance. Mrs Aumayr! We didn't need you and I personally didn't need you to defend me against 30 percent price reductions! But of course we need one: In all European centres, we need a reasonable further development of our exports in the world trade, in view of our export interests. And if you have said that 10,000 farmers are being driven out of their farms in the year, I must tell you: This number is not only wrong at all, it is even more than double the wrong! In this debate, you have once again proved completely uninformed and inconsistency, so that you do not help any single family of farmers just somehow in problems of the year 1999 or the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the Federal Minister will answer you accordingly in the areas where it pays off or we consider it necessary... [[Abg. Aumayr: Just as arrogant treat the farmers!]] I am not arrogant in the matter, but if, then, only in the answer to your style, because this one basically deserves any answer, just not an in-depth consideration of the way you want to act politically here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Above all, I would like to refer to something: It is perhaps understandable from the point of view of workers' representatives and financial policymakers if one considers that, as in no other area of the common policy of the European Union, public funds can be deducted from agriculture. . I would like to point out that the Green Report clearly sets out the national economic indicators, and it is quite clear that in Europe's expenditures of 1,98% of total European agricultural tax revenues, the amounts spent in Austria on multifunctional payment of benefits – about 1.64% of GDP – are, of course, in a reasonable relation to the comprehensive performance of food production in a tourism country. And who means by that To be able to solve labour market problems across Europe, which explores the reality of the sizes and relationships! We are in favour of a reasonable reform. In this context, farmers and policies are fully required for the next few years, as a reasonable reform in continuity also entails significant changes for agriculture. However, we have never concluded this because, in modern opinion, in modern industrial society agriculture needs not only a comprehensive task but also a comprehensive partnership. Only partnership can ultimately achieve the objectives that we have jointly formulated in terms of income security. In this sense, we will be fully committed to these historic political decision-making processes in 1999 and will also achieve reasonable results!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17663	Mr Smolle has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17692	Dobar, then! Dobar vecer! Gospod predsednik kluba ÖVP Khol! Mr President. Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Lahko noč!]] Perhaps it can be felt to me that it is not quite easy for the liberal agricultural speaker to speak to Mrs Aumayr, who does not like the whole policy, and Mr Schwarzböck, who always thinks that the matter is really all right. – I will try to present as objective a criticism as possible, because only this can help us. Minister! If you allow, I'd like to start right away with you. One thing makes things so difficult all the time: They made a statement in the "Leibblattel" – if I may call it so – "blick into the country" which I simply do not find so well. With regard to the Austrian Presidency of the half-yearly, you say: "Austria has proved itself." Minister! This cannot be seen in view of the many shortcomings which remain, above all, in the field of agricultural policy. In this context, I would like you to receive an article in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" of 12. January in which your successor Funke reads you indirectly the Levites. He says quite clearly that there is hardly any solved area that he takes over. That's just a fact. Whether it is milk, the overproduction of beef, the production for the camp – I read it from the "Frankfurter Allgemeine", the question of compensation, the question of co-financing or the limits on quantities: All of this, he's mounting as unresolved problems. It is therefore necessary to maintain: The balance sheet of this presidency is extremely poor, including that of the half-yearly presidency in the agricultural sector. It must be noted that, essentially, everything has remained unresolved when a successor like Mr Funke finds out: "I very much hope that we will get away from the award-winner." That's what he says about beef. He hopes that we will get away from the various support and support that we can no longer see for ourselves. Her successor may also go a little naïve about the matter and believe he will be able to solve all this in this half-year It clearly shows, however, that the EU's previous agricultural policy and therefore also Austria's agricultural policy were essentially wrong. That is to say, there are some areas that have to be pursued, for example the issue of animal husbandry. However, if one does not at the same time talk about the abolition of the animal husbandry premium, that does not agree. That is, we cannot say at the same time half yes and half no and then wonder that the questions are not solved. – In this sense, allow me a very objective criticism. Mrs Aumayr! Farmers' income loss is significant. That's why I can't get in line with you in one thing. We also need to save jobs permanently in the agricultural sector and in agriculture. It doesn't make sense for us to tear out billions of people in the short term either Mr. Molterer or Mr. Fischler or anyone else – now speaking in European terms – saying: It's all right! We've survived for a year. It's going to go on somehow. We're going to boost the production of pigs again. Then the prices are on the ground, but then we support them again. Somehow it has to run. This is the point, Mrs Colleague, in which we thank God for being very consciously far away: We must also create sustainablely solid jobs in agriculture – as everywhere else – that survive in the long term. We need farms that can ultimately compete. That's not what we're going to pass. There's no Semmering tunnel, either up or down. I can't! There must be a clear line! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The structural problems continue to exist, which is intensifying. Our EU Presidency has essentially gone unprofitable. Minister! If you look at this critically, however, you must say that you are not the only Minister of Agriculture who is doing so: The agricultural ministers are continuing their policy, as in the game "May you!" that someone may know from the youth. You keep giving the ball up and hoping that at last one will have the courage to turn the thing around by almost 180 degrees. But every Minister of Agriculture says: I have my clientele at home, I have my clientele in Brussels, I have my clientele on my way. Hopefully half the year is soon over. And then: Do it! – This is how it makes Mr Funke very clear. He says what he still has to do with central questions. There has been no market reform – neither in milk nor beef. If the number I have written out is right, then there are currently 600 000 tonnes of beef stored. That means it's going on. "Let's produce!", that's the formula. The animal husbandry guidelines are missing. Austria hasn't gotten through. We also discussed the so-called pollution quotas in the Committee: You can rent fields and properties, but still put them on your own property. There are no plans and disagreements in financing. Minister! In yesterday's "Kurier" it is quite clear that there is a race of the agricultural ministers and that it is about who will enforce its variant. There is no willingness to act together. But there you are not only to bring to the prosecutor, so to speak, but it is all the others with it. Everyone only picks up the raisins for himself. But this is not a European agricultural policy, it is a lobby policy, and we must say goodbye to it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There are still industrial agriculture. That's not what's changed. There are still former warehouses somewhere in Belgium or Holland or elsewhere in which – we know – pigs or cattle that are overcrowded from England. This is agricultural policy! To this end, I must say: No, no, no, It's neither healthy nor reasonable! This is neither good for the animals nor, of course, for us people who want to eat something healthy and good! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You are saying this yourself, and I too would not like to mention that you have succeeded in one thing, namely in terms of regulation or directive on organic farming. All due respect! That's all right! I'm glad. But if you put Russia's aid as something positive, Mr Minister, then I must say: Surely it is positive in the sense that, if God is unfortunately still in Europe, there are people who starve to help him. That is, we broke down our Fleischberg and said: Okay, let's do that! We'll send it there before, as it were, our camps pass. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black goats.]] – I will then discuss with you privately! I've really been very concerned about the matter. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Consider, for example, agricultural support, Mr Cot. How can you laugh about it? How can you laugh in the face of this administrative confusion as regards the promotion in Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? How can you laugh there? How can you spend 300 million for the administration alone at the AMA and laugh at it? You better laugh with your farmers! If the farmers are gonna laugh, we'll laugh with you, my dear friend! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black goats.]] This confusion requires an unreasonable administrative burden and excessive control. We know that pig production - and I do not have to mention it here - was recommended. Chamber officials have gone around and have said: Only produces pigs! - Now we're standing there and we've got the misters. It is so widely known that I do not have to do anything about it; that is no longer necessary. It is known to all who have been caused annoyance there, also caused by the chamber representatives and by the chamber advisors. Now perhaps some of our Liberals' proposals; we have not eaten the wisdom with the big spoon, but I would like to present these proposals here and clarify them: We believe that there should be only one single cash benefit, namely a land-related negative a hectare tax. This is the only thing we consider appropriate, and the basis for this is clear: Ground and soil. You can talk about it. This is the only suitable basis. This is easy to control, it is a simple solution almost without administration. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, Mrs Aumayr, and in this respect, this is your aim, in particular, to create sustainable, economic and ecologically viable and competitive businesses. That's the goal! And, of course, that means a reduction in the number of farmers. We have to deal with this reality, Mrs Colleague. We demand that the farmer be able to run a good farm and not to exist forever, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also about multifunctional use of agricultural units. It is mainly about the withdrawal of all intervention support, all export support, all set-aside premiums and all animal premiums, because all of this has proved to be wrong. You could almost say: Every year, a new subsidy was needed to make up for the work – and now we have the disaster! I am also saying something quite clearly here, which perhaps some farmers will not like, but I am an honest person. I believe that there should be an accounting obligation for farmers, especially in order to see for himself how great his effort is for the farm – and also that of the farmer you mentioned. It should know how much it does and does to see if it actually makes sense to achieve the goal with such a high effort. It must be allowed to ask itself this question. Today, many farmers have exactly those thoughts that you have mentioned as negatives, which we are going to conform to, namely the thought: I only have to work more, still more, and if I have been working 10, 12 or 15 hours, I still have to work an hour longer. This means that the farmer and the farmer must be aware of the effort they are making for the farm. That is quite clear, and with that we come to reality. I want you to know how it works. For this purpose, the accounting obligation would be appropriate. [[Abg. Zweytick: How stupid do you think the farmers, Mr. Colleague?]] I don't think she's stupid at all. I meet them once a week, and we'll discuss that. It is precisely the accounting issue that comes from the farming sector. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is this the opinion of the Liberal Forum?]] I also believe that something can be done, particularly in the field of energy: no levying of energy taxes on energy produced from biomass. All of this – and thus we are at a very important point – can or could work if one were to take along the idea of basic security at the same time as tax solutions. That is the point, that is, when we achieve this, if we so to speak ensure that everyone in Austria ultimately has his income, and then this basic guarantee of what he deserves beyond that amount... [[Abg. Zweytick: We haven't heard anything from agricultural policy for a long time!]] I don't understand you from up there. But that's not the problem. You must rather see that you agree with the farmers in the ÖVP, perhaps with some liberal proposals and present in your farmers' representatives. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You will see that you will succeed. They will then again have smiling farmers, and that is what we all want: smiling farmers because they run economically healthy farms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17826	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17847	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The 1997 Green Report, which we are discussing today, is, in the continuation of the previous Green Reports - as I believe and as my group believes - an excellently compiled numbering and information work, which emerged from the book-keeping establishments in Austria and was compiled and prepared by the agricultural sector. We all know – and today a lot has already been talked about administration – that we cannot argue in the future and work for the future without appropriate documents. That is why I am very grateful for this report, and I would like to thank your employees, Mr Federal Minister, but also the accountants who have enabled us to have this material available for future assessments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Green Report 1997 shows income situation and income development. That's what's already been talked about. However, this Green Report also shows distribution. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am not saying anything new here if I continue to agree, and once again, that the distribution of agricultural funds necessary to maintain a comprehensive agricultural policy in the order of scale, as we have in Austria, should also be based on socially just criteria. In our opinion, one of the most just criteria, especially in terms of employment discussion, which is being conducted in Europe and also in Austria, would be the main approach to the labour force, the work intensity at the farm, in order to achieve two things: firstly, to support those farms which produce their products under the most difficult conditions, under the most severe and most demanding of their labour force, and secondly, to support the employment and labour market situation positively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to bring in another approach, since I am not the type that looks backwards and backward, but the one that looks forward. I believe that the current discussion on Agenda 2000 represents an absolute opportunity for the future and is a challenge for agricultural policy. This is not only my humble opinion, but this challenge in the harmonised agricultural policy, in the common agricultural policy of the European Union, will also enable us, together with the other Member States, to act in a strong and firm manner on the world market, to achieve and improve our positions. But we really have to accept the challenges! I quote from the Delphi report, Volume 2, which deals with the results and proposals for measures of this report and deals mainly with organic food. Also the magazine "Hi! Tech" has been involved in this topic and has developed it under the title "Biobauers – the Princes of the Ground". Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think that a large number of challenges are waiting for agricultural policy, which can be viewed not only from a purely agricultural perspective and from the point of view of agriculture, but also from a social point of view. These challenges can be summarized in the opportunities that Austria offers with the high number of organically producing plants, with the high acceptance achieved in the meantime, and with the marketing opportunities. This Delphi study shows, among other things, that a gentle processing technology, which is also to be developed, must also be connected. I believe that there are a number of possibilities and opportunities for the future. We must use them and we must try to enforce them together at European level! Allow me, as I am not speaking about the next item on the agenda, to say a word about the forest report. The Delphi study also deals with the forest and wood situation. I recommend Mrs. Aumayr, who may look a little bit into the future and prefer to look backwards to take a look into the future, take this study at hand, and also in "Hi! [[Abg. Aumayr: No!]] Tech" under the title "To love nature" to read what opportunities there are in the field of forestry, what opportunities we can and should benefit from, but not by making anyone afraid, not by trying to present someone a black hole for the future to anyone, but by taking the positive approaches, implementing them and thus ensuring that the income situation for farmers, for farmers, is improved from the possibilities we have, the environmental situation is being considered and the interests of consumers are increasingly perceived and satisfied. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that we will continue to be able to remain on the market with our small rural structure and continue to bring the products to the man or woman – and this for a life-worthy and beautiful home in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17908	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17929	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I shall be tabling a motion for a resolution at the beginning. It concerns the statistical part of the Green Report, which has extensive numerical material but unfortunately no comment. We also asked ourselves internally: There's no such thing. I think, but if you are already making the effort to collect such extensive statistical material, then this material must also be explained. The Greens therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That there is a need for a comment on the distribution is not least evidenced by Mrs Horngacher's motion for a resolution. For, of course, the present figures give rise to a dramatic disparity between the treatment of different farms and a very uneven distribution effect of agricultural support. It is true that mountain farms and feed farms are clearly disadvantaged, nor within an area which is not, in itself, one of the winners. This request for the introduction of a base contribution is of course supported by us, but also points to the need to ensure greater distribution justice within agricultural holdings. Federal Minister! In this context, I would just like to point out one line on page 299, which we particularly liked to see. In view of the fact that there are nearly 300 farms to which a total of over 2 million schilling is paid, i.e. 0.16 percent of the farms are paid out, while 40 percent of the funding cases have to be made up of not even 9 percent of the funding amount, I think: With all the public's willingness to contribute to this, and with the Greens, it is necessary to ensure that organic farming is guaranteed, that there is a certain willingness to do so, that such an imbalance should be corrected or that we should also hear a statement of why such imbalances exist. In the matter itself, it is our constant criticism that we are missing a clear line, an orientation of the Austrian agricultural policy. We are pleased that there is a significantly higher proportion of organic holdings in Austria than in other European countries. We see this in connection with a growing awareness of consumers and recognize this also in contributions from animal protection in connection with an ecological agriculture. Only this is one rail next to others, and I believe that is a strategy, Mr. Federal Minister, which is not going to take place in the long term, because it is insecure to consumers – one does not know what product declaration really is – and on the other hand, because it makes an Austrian marketing difficult in this regard. I am firmly convinced - I have already told you several times in the course of discussions - that there will be no more conventional agriculture in 10 to 15 years. There will be, on the one hand, agricultural factories, industrial plants of enormous dimensions, and there will be environmental small and medium-sized enterprises that can be on the market. But the companies in between will be pushed out of the market. Therefore, one cannot move a bit there and a little there if one does not want to endanger that – still – of the Austrian businesses in their existence. The overall situation is threatening: a reduction in income by 4 per cent – and this again very selectively, very much at the expense of already disadvantaged businesses – and at the same time a proposal for an Agenda 2000 which I wonder why improvements which were originally included in the 1997 draft have now been strongly watered down again. My question to It reads: What was Your contribution to this? The ecological connection of income aid has, for example, been heavily watered down. The removal of the Silomais premium has fallen. The limits on direct payments have also been remedied, in our opinion, inadequately reduced. It is still not decided which way the European agricultural policy will go. It is still official representatives of the agricultural sector who still want to make the farmers aware that heiling is desirable according to the requirements of the world market for Austria. Federal Minister! Please say goodbye to this concept, and tell the Austrian farmers also openly and honestly! What we need is a European production for our own markets, supported according to ecological and social criteria, according to the labour force in agriculture, and also increasingly for the regional supply sector. The fact that this clear orientation does not exist is always proved to me, for example, by the fact that there is no derogation from an increase in export subsidies, for example in the area of cattle production. They justify this with breeding cattle, Federal Minister. On the one hand, and especially the debate within the EU has shown it, you know how big it is, because the effects of taking part, up to real subsidisation, are. On the other hand, the interests of consumer protection remain on the track at the same time. I am not talking about animal welfare at all in this context. They still exist, long distance transports; 8 percent is now again increasing subsidies to the detriment of farmers, consumers and animals. They will not be able to exist on the markets in the long term, but, as has been said, they need a comprehensive ecologicalisation to use the pioneering role of Austria and also the good image as a marketing factor. That's the way we think is the only way forward and the only way to do it. In this sense, we also recommend – no: we ask and ask you – that you, as European Minister for Agriculture, enter the WTO negotiations and give up the constant involvement of European agricultural production on world markets as a mistake. This is not going to happen, and this will be a concept that is condemned to failure from the factor of energy, but also from the factor of land use. If I look at the sectoral breakdown of production as a whole, I have to say: In the future, I think it will be impossible to maintain that two thirds of the agricultural production of animal food - in the broadest sense - and only one third of plant alternatives. I have recently heard from your statement that you want to open up new opportunities for income and market opportunities for agriculture, for example in the field of energy production. However, this would also require a change in sectoral production. Since you can't expect all farmers to be researchers, pioneers and pioneers in their own business, I think that needs intensive advice and support. I think that this reorientation must take place and, last but not least, Mrs Aumayr has formulated this in a request we are going to agree with, the recommendations of the European Commission are also going in this direction. In particular, as regards biomass and energy production, however, the framework conditions to be created by the Austrian Federal Government must also be agreed, from the organisation of energy-providing undertakings to the supply tariffs. The recommendations are clear. In this respect too, I miss a clear ecological orientation of agriculture. Consumers are ready to do so. The reputation of Austrian agriculture is thank God very, very high. I think it would be high in time for you to be willing and willing to do so. Use consciousness also in a clear and clear direction, instead of this watered-down double game – as a few global market conditions, there a gratifyingly larger eco-snacks – to continue to operate. Put yourself clearly and clearly on the one side! Negotiating in this sense at the European level – also in favour of income security for Austrian agriculture – and bringing Put this position in the WTO negotiations worldwide! In my opinion, this is in the long run harmful, yes devastating, for the Austrian agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18022	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petrovic is sufficiently supported, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18046	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report is an extensive, objective reference work. This has already been noted, and this must be agreed. It is positive to have a paper in which all the facts, data and figures are to be understood. For this purpose, it is to be thanked to the establishments which provide the data and to the officials who make this work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] The result of this Green Report is negative. That's undisputed. It is also negative - I would like it to be different - that the time of treatment here in Parliament is not possible a little faster after the publication. It is particularly negative, however, if such an exaggeration is carried out in the debate on the free movement of persons by saying that per holding costs of 280 000 S are for the administration alone. I was never the best in computing, admitted; there will be better. [[Abg. Aumayr: Reading! You just need to take the study back! That's it!]] But if I calculate the number of 200 000 farmers per 280 000 s, I would like to know what amount comes out of it: That would be 56 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, and that is nothing but blue thirst! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wenitsch: No free numbers!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The total cost!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A milkmaid bill!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: IHS!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report also shows that there were areas where positive results had been achieved in 1997 but also areas where negative results had been recorded. A very negative result for a certain sector of agriculture is the pig market. – Ladies and gentlemen! I took two bills here. The one comes from 1991; at the time, the best quality of 2 300 p.m. was obtained for a 105 kilogram of high-quality mast wine. At present, on the other hand, it is only 1 300 S. That's negative, that's extremely worrying! But there should be so much intelligence to bear in mind that a Federal Minister is not responsible for this. The market and the market opportunities that exist are decisive for this. We are also in demand of farmers: We need to produce what is needed, not just what we like. [[Abg. Aumayr: How were the board's recommendations?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also clear that one thing is unfortunate – and that is what I would like to point out on that side, which very often means that in agriculture everything can only be seen from the point of view of smallness, the perceptibility, the nature protection base and so on: In the same period, the price of a mechanic hour has increased from 285 S to 515 S at least. So it is no wonder what has been reported in today's "time in the picture". On a special recommendation of certain groups in Austria, the once-rejoiced Stronach has bought the Steyr plant and announced all kinds of things that will come there in order to safeguard the workplace. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Who did that? - Say it! Don't be so cowardly! The Vrnitzky was!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Now it is necessary to note that, as it is said in today's "time in the picture", there are 100 people who are employed. Ladies and gentlemen! Company strategy currently has nothing to do with our agricultural debate – or perhaps. Because many tractor plants in the world do not need gearboxes because the buyers are missing. And with that, the circle closes. Ladies and gentlemen! I am more than grateful to the Minister of the Federal Government for understanding, even in the most difficult stages, that he can best represent the problems of the peasantry in particular detail and of special expertise, even though we are not only enthusiastic about everything, that is also true. No question, of course, it could always be better. I would therefore like agricultural policy to be seen, not by blue glasses, but by facts, data, figures and by means of the respective possibilities. [[Abg. Wenitsch: You can see it through the black glasses!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Perhaps we could then jointly design an agricultural policy future. It is necessary – that is undisputed – to address the question of pre-tax in the forthcoming tax reform. The question of operating expenditure and operating costs must also be discussed. As far as operating costs are concerned, this page would also be requested. It is also about veterinary medicinal products and veterinary costs, ladies and gentlemen; we have dramatic costs in comparison to Germany and other EU countries. [[Abg. Aumayr: VAT adjustment!]] It would also be necessary for the Federal Minister Prammer to finally get out of the drawer the animal health law and put it on the table of the Council of Ministers. In this respect, we need action. I would like to ask all the experts, but also the honourable Member, to make sure that they finally go a little further. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the presentation of the Green Report, but would like to ask for Parliamentary treatment to take place a little more quickly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18212	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18233	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. The Green Report, like every year, presents a very open, very sober analysis of the situation, in which a critical balance is drawn over a year – in this case over the year 1997 – which, after a positive year 1995 and a minus in 1996, also shows a reduction in income in agriculture for 1997. That's not to beautify, that's fact! The Green Report also shows, from my point of view, very objectively the causes of this development. These causes are very diverse; we know them. The discussions which have just been held here show that we clearly have very different views on the further perspective and on the measures that are necessary. The bandwidth is large. I can tell you what my position on this question looks like, how I imagine future development and where, from my point of view, it is necessary to set priorities. How can the income perspective be seen for the sector? – I repeat that – I have said that before – because this discussion has obviously not been over again in this House: Of course, agriculture will have to be able to generate a substantial share of the income over the market in the future. Only, ladies and gentlemen and Mrs Aumayr: It is not possible to think that a division of labour is going to mean that, at a time when we have good prices – and we had them in the pig sector for example – the market is responsible, but then, if prices are not good, suddenly the policy is. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] Perhaps we do it the other way round: that the market is responsible if it is not good, and that policy is responsible if it is good. I think it is necessary to hold: Agriculture still needs the market and the proceeds as a perspective in the future! [[Abg. Wenitsch: With these prices not! I don't do anything!]] It is the task of politics to help when there are critical situations. [[Abg. Aumayr: No, Minister,...!]] For example, there is a need for massive aid from the public sector in the area of pig market and also for a problem that exists. Secondly, Agriculture needs to pay off its services for its income. – Mr Smolle! I think it almost cynical to say that we should abolish all the premiums. This simply means that there is no mining aid, that we should let go of the environmental programme, that we have no investment support and so on. I could continue this list. In the analysis, which is then made – and that is, we need good businesses – you should also state the structure of these companies that are supposed to generate income without these compensation payments. In fact, at the same time, you should call the percentage of farms, the farmers who are supposed to leave the farms. I acknowledge that this is the responsibility of society: If it requires a service - a service, for example for the environment - from agriculture, the society also has the obligation to pay for it. If the market does not produce it, it must be paid in other ways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Mrs Aumayr, I am very clear about this – and I know that this does not cause enthusiasm everywhere – that we need not only compensation payments in the agricultural structure we have in Austria today, but also the combination of employment in the agricultural farms. They cannot, however, close their eyes to the reality that, regardless of the accession to the European Union, two thirds of farmers generated their income from several legs, including extra-agricultural activity, in 1994. Consider what it would mean to say that we do not want this combination of work. I have to ask you exactly the same question that I asked Mr Smolle: How many farms do you want them to be agriculture? If we have this structure, then we also have to say about the need for the combination of labour and the fact that we ultimately need these opportunities for income for the rural families. [[Abg. Aumayr: They can't do this at work!]] Fourth: I clearly share the view that has already been expressed: We must contribute to the discharge – tax reform keyword: we are currently negotiating, for example, the problem of VAT on flat-rate enterprises or, for example, the question of operating resources prices. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have not contributed a single step!]] That is, for me, an income perspective on four pillars given market income, compensation for the desired benefits that farmers provide, income combination and additional opportunities as well as cost reduction. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have not contributed a single step so far! Year after year, you break the contracts!]] – This is my strategy that I consider necessary and correct! [[Abg. Wenitsch: That's what you notice about the farmer's death!]] On the second question, that of strategic orientation: Mrs Petrovic, I am also very happy to discuss this question with you. I am not happy with the perspective you have shown, which is that on the one hand, we have the large industry and on the other hand, "fine, small, organic". I did not think this was correct for our strategic orientation in Austria. I would like to see total agricultural production geared to ecological criteria. As an additional element to be expanded, organic farming is a perspective. However, we cannot decouple the development of organic farming from the development of demand. What would we have if we said that we are now doing organic without in any way taking into account whether the product is bought as such? We already have the problem today – and this is what we have to consider – that organic milk is Biomilk is produced, but is not sold as organic milk or as a product from organic milk because there is no market! From my point of view, therefore, this cannot be decoupled in organic farming either. The final question for organic farming is: Are there market prospects? On the agenda, because this will be one of the important decisions to be made in the near future, ladies and gentlemen: You ask me, Mrs Petrovic, what was my contribution between 1997 and March 1998. I have not contributed to this because the Commission is responsible for both the draft agenda and the concrete proposals. It is not a proposal that Austria has drawn up. But I also say that we must be clear that this proposal has not been made out of juxtaposition and brilliance. Also here is a request from me: Let's look at the realities here too! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Tell the farmer!]] To say, for example, that European agriculture should be completely decoupled from world market developments, I believe that for two reasons it is extremely problematic: On the one hand, European agriculture is in the same situation as Austria before accession. Austria, for example, has produced 40 percent more cattle than the Austrian market because of the green land conditions we have in our country. Of course we exported! European agriculture is doing the same. However, we should also not ignore the following thoughts: For example, those who are looking at FAO studies will realize that Europe will be one of the few regions that will have available and manageable land in the perspective of agriculture. A decoupling of all things that happen in the world would be fatal for Europe from my point of view. But: In my opinion, the agenda in its present form must be improved so that it becomes compatible. From my point of view, there are three key points: Firstly, the price reductions, if necessary, should be as small as possible. Secondly, we demand a balance of income. Thirdly, we acknowledge that there are also quantitative elements in the Union's market regulations, such as quotas or set-aside, for example in the cereals sector. In my view, there is no perspective in the agenda without multi-mixture instruments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I consider rural development to be positive for Austria. I am thinking, for example, of the environmental programme, of the base amount, which we also have a broad consensus on. I am thinking, for example, of all these cooperation projects for the rural regions, the processing sector plan and so on. There are also other interesting perspectives, such as the proposal for degression of market-regulation premiums depending on the size of the holding. I would just like to talk about a few more questions. – Mr Smolle! I think that Russia is a success of the Austrian Presidency, and I think it almost cynical to say that this Russia aid is a flop. One may ask the question of seeing eyes: What alternative do we have for the people of Russia, as a result of European responsibility? [[Abg. Smolle: This is a completely different story!]] This is an important political decision! [[Abg. Smolle: This is not agricultural policy!]] That we help these people with food, I think is necessary and right. [[Abg. Smolle: This is not agricultural policy, Minister.]] Secondly, the European Forestry Strategy is a key success of the Austrian Presidency: For example, I refer to the already addressed Biodirective or the seed package with the genetic engineering label – I could continue this list. In the agenda, too, the Presidency has done what was to be done, such as, as I have already said, in rural development. On administrative costs, Mrs Aumayr: I ask you to take the pen and multiply 200 000 Austrian businesses by 280 000 S. Then you know the result of this bill. [[Abg. Aumayr: (keeping a written document in height) There it stands inside, in the IHS study,...!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 56 billion schilling would be that!]] I, at least, ladies and gentlemen, have always seen the obligation to examine studies before I quote them. Here a simple multiplication would prove to be a sufficient test element. Calculate 280 000 times 200 000! [[Abg. Vienna: Have you already disagreed with this study?]] Yes! [[Abg. Aumayr: When?]] When she appeared! [[Abg. How about the farmers? I haven't heard of it yet!]] That you don't read the newspapers is not my problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order for us to be able to judge the number of relationships at once, Madam President, I should like to point out that, while you are talking about 10,000 refugees, Teacher Schneider, who is truly known as a computer, calculated 4,700 for 1997, that is less than half of the number you mentioned. If that should be the reality of your statement, I would ask you to be a little more precise on this point, too, Madam Members. For renationalisation: I do not share the assessment because the renationalisation for Austria and Austria would be a bad business, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Aumayr: I think so!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: That's where the SPD Agriculture Minister Funke will make good pressure!]] Not all that is German is good, Mrs Deputies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have also made it my own maxim to evaluate before judging. [[Abg. Aumayr: I don't believe that! They do not want to make any agricultural policy for the Austrian farmers!]] Renationalisation would mean that the Austrian farmers are getting less money back, and I am therefore opposed to this concept of renationalisation. [[Abg. Aumayr: We would pay significantly less money to Brussels, Minister! That's stupid!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I share other assessments which say that we want more national flexibility, for example in the instruments of mining promotion or the environmental programme: Yes! – But renationalisation would be a bad advice for Austrian farmers! [[Abg. Aumayr: You will have to give him!]] A final sentence on the distribution discussion: Mrs Petrovic, I would also ask you to consider the discussion which we have already begun in committee. Look You know, what kind of support we're talking about? The degressive compensatory payments had the task – I say, because in 1998 they ended up – to offset the price classification by four years of degressive payments. Of course, this has gotten every farm, regardless of the size, because everyone was also confronted with the lower prices. Secondly, In my view, an environmental programme has the task of ensuring that, if possible, every hectare is managed ecologically. For example, we have already introduced the degression according to operating size in ÖPUL. In the context of the Union's market-regulation premiums, there is already a discussion, and I am familiar with this degression, including in the market regulations, by size. But: We now have different structures and different sizes in agriculture. We should just recognize that. With additional elements, such as this degression, which we support, we should be more balanced in terms of environmental orientation and social orientation. Finally, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss these measures, which I believe are quite necessary, so that we can help improve the situation, as it ultimately helps the Austrian farmers most. Nothing has actually been done with emotion and half-truth. With a real view of the circumstances and the assessment of the real possibilities and with the doing – I emphasize: doing! – is the best aid to farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: But with beautiful colors is not served either!]] Mr Salzl! In view of the fact that the Federal Government has, for example, extended the 40 billion package for farmers together with the countries for the next years, you may realize that the Federal Government is serious when it comes to helping these farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: You only had to keep promises!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18602	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18623	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, after this lobby, following the self-respect you have given yourself, I would just like to draw your attention to what has happened in your ministry: This is the tomorrow edition of the "Kronen Zeitung", Mr. Minister, and you will find in it that a kilogram of baby weighing diapers today cost 189.90 s. [[the speaker shall keep the said newspaper up to date]] In addition, you have the offer for a kilogram of pigmeat: 19,90 S! – In view of this, I think you no longer need to talk about your successes. That a kilogram of pigmeat today costs only 20 percent of what a kilogram of disposable diapers costs shows the importance of agricultural products in that country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The farmers also see this a little different from you. [[Abg. Smolle: This is demagogic!]] Mr Smolle, you haven't worked very much in agriculture, and you don't understand very much about it. [[Abg. Smolle: I don't defend the Minister, but that's demagogic!]] Mr Minister, it is now necessary to cancel farmers' balls in municipalities because the farmers themselves are rebelling against their own representation, that in Lower Austria the president of the Association of Lower Austrian Pig Breeders, Mr Hülmbauer, an ÖVP Grand, must be taken away under police protection of farmers' events with radio-terrorists – not from terrorists, but from farmers he must already be protected! – shows how far the EIA policy has been successful in this country. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: That's not true! The farm balls are well visited! The one of you may be cancelled!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something to you and my colleagues. Auer might write in the parent book because he compared with the pig prices of 1991 and 1996. I have here an issue of "Die Landschaft", the magazine of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, from 1953 – that is 45 years ago! Chamber director was Dr. Leo Müller at the time, and he published a price comparison in this newspaper. – Mr Minister, the wheat price was 2.40 p. 45 years ago. Today, farmers get a good quality wheat – the best quality – 1.90 p. Can you imagine that? [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: How big was the yield?]] Mr Minister, we have heard enough about the yield! Because, on the other hand, you are looking for a market again! You should be more careful that the price for farmers is in order and not always talk about yield! For precisely this yield was the policy of the ÖVP, which has led the farmers into this ruin in which they are today. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have led them into overproduction!]] That is why overproduction has been promoted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That was the mistake that was made, ladies and gentlemen. Farmers today have to live with prices that are worse than 45 years ago! I would like to see an employee working at a lower wage than 45 years ago. Or you too as a politician, Minister: Would you agree with the salary that a minister received 45 years ago? - Oh, you're not there for that? But with the farmers very well! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the Green Report, you can see in it the declaration of bankruptcy of the Austrian peasantry. – Mr Schwarzböck, the Chamber used to work for the farmers, no longer today: Today you're working against the farmers. I would just like to say the following: You can go through this Green Report as you like. For example, it is found that the income disparities between the target income and the real Is income are recorded in it by 51 percent. Do you know what that means? – Farmers don’t even earn half of what they should earn! [[Abg. Aumayr: There you can only laugh!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The pure yield for the farmers today is a "purple loss" of minus 57 000 S! So far as we are today, that we do not have a clean yield, but a clean loss! That's all you've brought together, Minister. [[Abg. Aumayr: "Grandios"!]] I can also refer to a study of the Wifo, which reveals gloomy prospects and which says that the prospects are particularly gloomy, because the degressive price compensation payments are completely out of date. It advises the government to counter nationally, for example by improving the turnover tax position. This is precisely what we are dealing with in a liberal proposal which we are already making for the sixth time today and which has been repeatedly rejected by the ÖVP, by the Federal Farmers' Committees, especially by Mr Schwarzböck, who, while calling for it in the Chamber, in "The Austrian Farmers' Association", but who here in Parliament, rejects it. [[Abg. Aumayr: Yes, he will vote against it, Mr Schwarzböck, for the sixth time!]] The study also states that the re-introduction of diesel prices would be necessary. That is why, Mr Minister, I would also like to make a request to this effect: [[Quoted print version removed]] I do not think our farmers deserve to have the most expensive diesel price for Austria's agriculture in Austria under the government coalition of ÖVP and SPÖ. Minister! We come to the Green Report every year, and it is the same game every year. It is proposed by the §-7 Commission something that would be useful. But this is rejected here in Parliament. The Wifo makes gloomy forecasts. These are simply ignored by the farmers' representatives of the ÖVP. In principle, you, Mr Minister, continue to sleep, just like the entire Federal Government! We have had the Presidency of the Council, Minister. You also mentioned this with a lot of praise. What really happened for Austrian farmers? – Under your chairmanship, zero! [[Abg. Aumayr: Except for spices, nothing has been done!]] Minister, the EU produces 1 million tonnes of beef. The recovery of these surpluses costs 20 billion schilling annually, which is about 20 s per kilogram. Instead of moving or stimulating your ministerial colleagues to think during your Presidency, you will most likely sell a 30 percent reduction in intervention prices for beef to farmers, out of solidarity with your fellow farmers, Fischler. You tried this in here, too. You said: That is absolutely necessary, we cannot go out at all. That is the free market. What are we gonna do? – But I would ask for the free market for everyone, Mr Minister, for you too. Minister! Like beef and veal and other sectors of European agriculture, it is also true of milk: There are 12 million tonnes of milk surplus in the EU! The EU costs 40 billion schilling each year. These are per kilogram of surplus milk 3.30 p. During your presidency, Mr Minister, I would have expected you, first of all, to encourage a voluntary delivery ban of 5 per cent to your colleagues in the EU and to compensate farmers with this 3.30 s for this voluntary delivery ban. That would have left the Milchberg once. At least that would be something. I also have the impression, Mr Minister, that you seem to be waiting for the proposal by the Federal Commissioner Fischler to be put into reality regarding the release of milk quotas. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Where did Fischler propose this?]] Fischler and the Commission are proposing that quotas be released! [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: No, that's wrong!]] Mr Minister, that would be the total declaration of bankruptcy for the Austrian farmers if you agreed and did not make the choices accordingly! – Now you can no longer do this: [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: That's wrong! That's wrong!]] Now you're back in Austria and you're talking about EU policy again. But you had the Presidency for six months, and you were unable, in some way, to put the course in the direction of a proper and reasonable agricultural policy. Minister! After this for farmers bad year 1997 comes a year 1998. I believe that 1998 will be a year of death for farmers. And you'll see, like a farmer's death that we're going to have to buy in this year, it's never been a day. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: A year ago?]] Minister! I'm really looking for you in the name of the farmers – not for me, I don't need it, because I have such a nice salary, I live just like everyone in here, but the farmers don't have it –: Finally, put the course for a reasonable agricultural policy! Get away from the surplus production! You must now confess that there must be an alternative agriculture in the European Union. It is not a question of Holland producing 400 percent of its own pigmeat needs! For whom and for what, please? – Going there, I would like to take steps from you in the right direction!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18866	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Karl Donabauer spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18894	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In addition to many phrases and a general rounding in its recognizable nervousness, my previous speaker claimed that the president of the Association of Lower Austrian Pig Breeders, President Hülmbauer, would have been accompanied by police protection from an event. [[Abg. Vienna: What did I say?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] First of all, I'm right: Hülmbauer is not President of the Association of Lower Austrian Pig Breeders, and, second, Hülmbauer has never been accompanied away by police protection because his statements at all events are so factual and correct that they find broad acceptance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] This is at most your dream, which we can't win!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18947	Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18969	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 1997 Green Report is as detailed as it has never been. Each area is covered in detail. It is clear exactly what impact EU support has on farms. These were granted to assist farmers in the transition to the changed market conditions. Each farmer was free to decide how to use his funding money, whether as a organic farmer or for a change to a pig farming. If we had only 200 organic farms in 1980, the number of organic farmers in the period from 1994 to 1997 – this is the time of the funding – increased to 19,996. This development has been made possible by the promotions, but it has also contributed to the encouraging development in the market, namely the increasing demand of consumers for organic products. If we look at pig farming, which has also had good opportunities a few years ago, we must note that it has not been foreseen that the whole of the European pig market would be in such a difficult situation through the Russia crisis. In order to mitigate the crisis, 300 million Schillings were also granted to the pig farmers or to support credit repayments. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to focus everything on the promotions. Each producer carries a certain risk. Thanks to the technology, our time has become much faster. Take, for example, industrial workers in the textile sector: There employees must be very flexible. They don't know how long they can work in a farm. A loss of employment is primarily a loss of income, and it involves fears of existence. – Mrs Aumayr, you have spoken of an industrial worker's earnings of 28 000 S: I can only advise you to go to an industrial company once, because there the skilled worker gets only 18 000 S gross! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that there is a lot of money available for agriculture. That is why we also want social democrats to benefit the people working in agriculture from this great amount of money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How do you do that best? – Certainly not by making the money available according to the size of the area or according to the number of livestock. It's far better, but above all it's more just, my Ladies and gentlemen, to grant these funds according to labour intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19021	The next speaker is Mr Koller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19039	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 1997 Green Report, based on the study of around 2,400 test establishments, mostly full-time and parade establishments, shows a gloomy picture. Income per family labour force fell by 4 percent in real terms. Most of the incomes fell in the southeastern lowland and hilllands by 12 percent. According to Professor Schneider, income fell by 8.4 percent in Austria. – Due to the discrepancy of figures, there is a need for action here. The selection of test facilities would be too objective. The year 1998 looks even darker. Despite higher productions, income continued to decline, as a result of the degressive compensatory payments and the collapse of the pig price. Ladies and gentlemen! The share of public funds in total income was 10 percent at the beginning of the 1990s. At the time, the farmers generated most of their income over the market. With EU accession, the paper turned. In 1997, the share of public funds in agricultural income was 67 percent. The trend is rising because the price reductions in agricultural products continue. Ladies and gentlemen! The years of claims of the § 7 Commission regarding the increase in the standard rate of VAT from 10 to 12 percent and no further social burdens were taken into account. At the base of the ÖVP, make these demands. In Parliament, however, if the requests are submitted, you will fall down! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Save your Sunday speeches! Tell the farmers the truth, also about Agenda 2000 and the impact of Easter enlargement! Minister! In the Committee you said that the recommendation of the Section 7 Commission on social policy measures had already been taken into account. Minister! I ask you: Why was the main determination of the unit values to be carried out in 1999 postponed until 2001? All taxes and social taxes are calculated and deducted by the unit value. Farmers' incomes are falling, but the loads are rising! To sum up, I would like to say: They ask for themselves from the ÖVP. You're in social society, and you're in the Federal Government. Finally, put your own demands into practice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19086	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19104	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Green Report shows us the situation in which agriculture is located. This, of course, also leads to some demands, especially some of the demands for the mountain area. In my view, the price reductions as proposed in Agenda 2000 are unjustly high. We should therefore do everything we can to make this Agenda 2000 more rural. If, in fact, a large price reduction were to occur, that would be a very difficult situation for us. In all cases, full compensation must be given. For the mountain area, it is particularly important that the milk quota remains, otherwise milk production will depart. Mr. Wenitsch twisted the matter earlier. The Commission has proposed the continuation of the milk quota for the next period. [[Abg. Wenitsch: But they want to get up instead of sink down!]] However, some states are opposed. However, for us it is necessary that the milk quota should remain at all. A second point for us is, of course, the premium for raising female cattle, the calcin premium. In areas with a low level of direction, as we often have, the cultivation of the calcin is traditionally carried out and has a high significance. Because there it is often not useful to carry the milk over very long transport routes, and therefore the breeding of young cattle in these cases is the better variant. If, for example, this is a major problem for large areas in the Upper Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, I would like to repeat the call for the EU-wide abolition of the Herodic premium because I believe that Herodic premium and agricultural farming do not fit in. Germany and Austria have never introduced them, and the other countries should also make the exit. But we need an early marketing premium for the calves. Fourth: The introduction of the base amount scheme seems particularly important to me. Especially for Austria and in particular for Tyrol, the extension of the compensation allowance would be of great importance for less favoured areas. At this point I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution which we decided at the last committee meeting. However, I would also like to mention some very positive developments. Since we are discussing today the 1997 Green Report, I would point out that this year was marked by a number of fundamental social security changes. Today's positive trend shows that we were right at the time. That is why I should like to make a few points: ==References====External links== January 1998 guaranteed weekly allowance from 250 S to 300 S, also from 1. January 1998 reduction of fictitious excretion from 35 percent to 30 percent of the guide rate, introduction of the health certificate for farmers by 1. ==References== – Since the farmers now have the health certificate, there is no pre-financing and no more self retention. This not only saves the rural families, but it has also facilitated access to the health system. You must not forget: Without this rural health, pension and accident insurance, social security would not be possible. In addition, the rural families provide particularly high benefits for the elderly and disabled. This awareness of responsibility of rural families is a special feature of rural society. On the comments made by Mrs Aumayr, I would like to say the following: Of course, many developments concern us. But of you liberties, we have never heard proposals for a truly forward-looking programme. They attacked our minister very much. But he has the confidence of the Austrian farmers, and he is right to trust this!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19145	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Salzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19163	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have heard many times today, the Green Report clearly shows that, after the disastrous year 1996, the situation for our farmers continued to deteriorate in 1997, i.e. in the third year following the accession of the EU. The income situation has worsened dramatically. Nevertheless, the promised discharges of the agricultural holdings have been avoided by more affordable means of operation or by the VAT adjustment promised in the European Treaty to date. Federal Minister! It's just not enough for me if you say you're negotiating about it! They promised it to the farmers and didn't keep it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This unfavourable VAT adjustment alone causes farmers to lose around 1.7 billion schilling each year, in a situation that is really more than threatening to farmers, as they are at the height of their incomes just before the emergency workers. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is a scandal!]] It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the so-called ÖVP farmers' representatives and you too, Mr Federal Minister, are watching and allowing agriculture to move away from its livelihood under its feet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You contribute to this!]] I do not understand why these farmers' representatives are talking about enlargement of the EU. Agriculture will again be among the main losers as part of the enlargement of the EU as well as accession to the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They represent this attitude, although Schwarzböck and Co. and also you, Mr Federal Minister, know very well that the Agenda 2000 associated with this enlargement will mean that there will be thousands of farmers and thousands of agricultural workers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzböck! You admit it yourself, even if you have already spoken very anointingly here. – I quote from the magazine "Agriculture" of November 1998: "Fischler presents agenda studies. 2005 could be up to 35 percent less employed in agriculture." Fischler also said: "Agriculture must also pay for enlargement of the EU." And you, Mr. Schwarzböck, said: "EU studies confirm the fears of farmers. The farmers' representation is fully confirmed in their fears by those studies which have been prepared on behalf of the European Commission and presented by the Commissioner for Agriculture. When looking closely at the data and figures available, it appears that we are right at all levels. Farmers will fall further in income until they lose dramatically, the surpluses will grow and will not be restricted, the migration from agriculture will rise, the trend towards the industrialization of agriculture will increase, and the trade chains will hardly pass on product low prices to consumers at all." Mr. Schwarzböck! You know exactly! You know exactly how serious the situation in agriculture is even without Agenda 2000 and without EU enlargement! This also shows a study by the Ministry of Agriculture, which says about poverty in rural areas, that almost half of those at risk of poverty live in rural communities and that in Austria 30.6 percent of agricultural households are at risk of poverty, with the highest risk in Burgenland, the second highest in Styria and the third highest in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Aumayr: In the Mühlviertel!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of these facts, due to the enlargement of the East and Agenda 2000, there will be an additional deterioration in the income situation or the death toll for many businesses in Burgenland, Styria and Lower Austria. Thousands of farmers and agricultural workers will stay on the road. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to elucidate this threatening situation, which many already recognize as such, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! This Federal Government, together with the EU and with the support of the ÖVP farmers' representatives, is obviously pursuing a large-scale campaign for the extermination of farmers. We liberals will, in any case, give a clear rejection to this trend.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19287	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Grabner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19312	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate on the report on the situation of Austrian agriculture in 1997, on the so-called Green Report, I will confine my remarks to making a comparison of how good it is or how bad it is for Austrian farmers. There are many problems in agriculture, as we have heard today. However, I can agree with the remarks made by the Federal Minister, who meant that there is a need for farmers on the market. There are also major problems for farmers in pig prices, and there is also a need to help in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, the number of agricultural final products increased by 1.3 percent. The final production of agriculture and forestry together results in a percentage increase of 2.7 percent. The personal income is minus 2.8 percent, but the spread between minus 12 percent and up to plus 26 percent is taken into account. The level of agricultural debt has fallen further last year, and the saving ratio is slightly down and is 23 percent of the average total income at 104 186 p.m. Nevertheless, there has been the highest level of investment in agriculture over the last ten years. Ladies and gentlemen! The direct payment to agriculture in 1997 amounted to 20.5 billion schilling. The total funding amounted to 29 billion Schilling in 1997. The total tax performance of agriculture and forestry has continued to fall and is 1.17 billion schilling. I could make a breakdown here: The average tax benefit for self-employed persons in agriculture was 7 976 p. in 1997. In comparison, the average wage tax performance of workers continued to rise to 59,949 p. I believe that changes must also be made in support. According to the Green Plan, there are 431 agricultural funding millionaires. I know that this also concerns businesses and the like, as you mentioned earlier. Of the more than 200 000 farms, half are miners. Unfortunately, the agricultural structure in Austria is not competitive. A third of the farms are less than 5 hectares, over 90 percent of the holdings are located at an area of 50 hectares. Federal Minister! I am very sorry that the budget for the conservation of forests has fallen, especially for the avalanches and wildlife cultivation, although this area would be very labour-intensive. – Of course, we will give our assent to this Green Plan.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19355	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19376	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The strengthening of the rural area concerns all of us. In Styria, 70 percent of all people live outside large cities; in my constituency, 19 percent are still directly or indirectly employed in agriculture and forestry. In view of this, the Green Report really offers a good opportunity to ask and discuss the question of the future of this rural area. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: They apply for initiative here and ignore that the Commission's recommendations in accordance with § 7 form an integral part of this Green Report. You only need to give the Green Report your assent, and you would also be able to help with these recommendations. I ask you to reconsider this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, you are obviously of the opinion that it is the better way to dissuade the representatives of agriculture and agriculture ministers and undermine their efforts, rather than to support the genuinely legitimate concerns of farmers and farmers accordingly. They should support these efforts together with us, not insure the representatives of these concerns and insult them, as I mean. That's not a good way, and that's not a good style with God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] The rural area is marked by mutual interaction, and the rural area without farmers cannot exist. It is rightly required that the farmer should place himself on the market. That's right. I believe that everyone who is active in free Europe today must put himself on the market. But the rules must be the same. Colleagues Auer has already pointed out higher fuel prices, stricter animal protection and transport laws, more expensive plant protection products and longer authorisation procedures. It would be a lot more to mention here. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's go the way together! Let us support the Minister in his efforts to improve the rules of the game, because this will help farmers best! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's right: The Agenda 2000 and the not yet established date of possible Easter enlargement cause concerns that our farmers, especially those in the East Styria, are really trying to get away with on a daily basis. I think we must and will give the farmers time to make better progress. They still need to catch up, they need to be able to adapt to the appropriate framework conditions. . I am really grateful for a statement by our Foreign Minister, who made very clear time in this context a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is totally overlooked that much has also been done. I would like to point out the common activities of industry and agriculture. Much has actually been achieved here, for example in the area of district heating projects, where value added remains in space, in the area of joint activities of marketing, in village renewal. A lot of things would be said, but you do not know that, of course! I propose that industry and agriculture set up joint marketing activities for the protection of domestic agricultural products. There should not be French or Italian weeks, but Austrian weeks in the food markets. It must be possible to channel structural resources more and more into the weak areas, and I would like to say one more sentence on the financial balance: He is currently simply unfair, and I believe that the next financial compensatory negotiations with the graduated rural population key must improve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our vice chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel explained a few days ago: The business location helps everything that creates work. – The preservation of the rural area is a matter for all of us, not least in the interests of the overall labour market. Let us take care of this responsibility together! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19436	Mr Achs has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19457	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It would be missing to give rise to a euphoric mood in agriculture. In the Green Report, facts appear to be sober. For example, the number of people employed in agriculture has fallen again, and it is hardly hoped that it will not be the same in the future. This trend will continue in the future. That is why it is our duty to oppose this negative development within the framework of the possibilities we have given us. At present, land and animal premiums depend on the size of the holding and not on the number of agricultural workers. The other side of the medal, however, is that, despite direct payments of income, on average large family farms cannot live. As a result, more and more establishments are being pushed down into the acquisition process. Since accession to the EU, the conditions for the Austrian agriculture and forestry sector have changed. On the one hand, farmers face a decline in producer prices, on the other hand, they are paid for these losses according to CAP land and animal premiums. The ÖPUL environmental programme grants compensation for the willingness to give up income. And last but not least, the compensatory payments for management difficulties should be mentioned. The volume of direct payments made to farms has also decreased in 1997. . So we must not ignore the facts that appear in the Green Report. The Austrian agriculture and forestry is still small-scale. More than half of the total 252 110 farms operate less than 10 hectares. 2.5 percent of farms handle more than 100 hectares. This is the best proof of the small structure of Austrian agriculture. We must not overlook the genuine efforts of the Federal Government to maintain agricultural agriculture. It is aware that agricultural holdings will have to be encouraged in the future, as the world market prices do not allow for a fair price to be achieved through the product. For EU agricultural policy, there will be the two pillars "Marketing" and "Promoting rural areas" in the future. I think that this decision is reasonable, because agriculture and forestry must not only be seen as an agricultural sector; it also includes rural areas as a whole. This is not only about agriculture, but also about tourism. The creation of regional tourism organisations is essential for professional marketing. The agricultural sector is one of the most controversial policies in the EU. The expenditure for the common agricultural policy is more than half of the budget, which is why we need to rethink the agricultural reform under review, and I could imagine a partial shift to the national area. There is a need for transparency in the sensitive agricultural sector of special farms. For example, the Austrian organic farmers have demonstrated that the search and finding of market niches can be successful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the wine sector, a Burgenan company is one of Austria's most important producers of koscherwein, which was awarded gold and silver medals in 1998. In order to be able to stand in the tough competition in the future, we need well-trained and clever business leaders. In Burgenland, a school cooperation was recently decided between the trade academy Neusiedl at the lake and the specialist school in Eisenstadt. The students of the Trade Academy are well trained in the direction of agricultural management, and in Eisenstadt they are taught the agricultural know-how at the Agricultural School. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This cooperation creates conditions for us to be able to point to a well-trained youth in the agricultural sector in the future. The demand of the most important Austrian winegrowers to establish relevant specialist universities for winemaking is superior. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the Austrian farmers cover the table of Austrians with healthy food, the society has to ensure that our farmers can also look forward to a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19505	There is no one to speak on this point anymore. The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, first of all to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-149 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1533. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this resolution give a sign of approval. – The decision shall be taken by a majority. (E 154.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Aumayr and others on the financing of renationalisation. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the Aumayr resolution give a sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on Mrs Petrovic's motion for a resolution on the distribution of agricultural support in the Green Report. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Dr Petrovic's request give a sign. – This request too remains in the minority and is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wenitsch and others on the competitive disadvantages of Austrian farmers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Wenitsch's request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Aumayr on the implementation of the recommendations of the Section 7 Commission which have not yet been fulfilled. In case of approval, I ask for a sign. – There is no majority in favour of this request either. He is therefore rejected. That is what we have done on this item on the agenda. 8. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the 1996 Austrian Forest Report (III-139/1532 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19624	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There is no wish for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19652	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the relevant officials for this comprehensive and informative report. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the presentation in this report draws attention to the decline in the forestry sector. From my point of view, the consequences are that thousands of jobs – from forestry workers to highly qualified forestry professionals – are lost in our rural regions. Minister! I would like to ask you that in future public funds intended for the conservation of our forest should not be used to stop any budget gaps. In addition, it would be time to strengthen alternative energy production in the forest area as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19685	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19706	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are only dealing with the 1996 forest report has its cause in trying to include also the results of the Austrian forest inventory in this forest report, which was prepared from 1992 to 1996 and which were only available at the end of 1997. We wanted to present this inventory as up-to-date as possible. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian forest has four main effects. This first includes the utility effect. Very many jobs in Austria are related to the forest and wood processing. The Austrian forest also has a protective effect. On about 80 percent of the land area of the mountainous states of Salzburg, Carinthia and Vorarlberg, there are so to speak endangered areas, and in Tyrol there are even more than 90 percent. There, the wildlife and avalanche cultivation, as well as the protection forest and the protection through the forest, is of considerable importance. However, the focus is on the efficiency of the forest. Especially in Austria, a very sustainable forest management is carried out. Of the approximately 28 million solid meters of wood, which grows with us every year, only 19.5 million solid meters, two thirds of the increase, are used. The forest report also notes that the proportion of deciduous wood and mixed forest has increased considerably in recent years. It has been tried to carry out the pest control in a natural way. The forest area itself grows by 7 700 hectares annually. This means that 46.8% of the total Austrian area is already covered with forest. When we convert this statistically to the population, half a hectare of forest comes to each Austrian or converted 430 forest trees. This is the highest share compared with all other Central European countries. The forest is also important in terms of job creation. The saw and paper industry alone employs 47 000 people. 9,000 workers are employed as self-employed forest workers. Some 50,000 farmers and their farms become full-time farms; otherwise their agriculture would be too small alone, but with the forest they are full-scale farms, and therefore they do not have to migrate so to speak to the self-employed. A further 100 000 people are working in post-processing, such as in carpentry, carpentry or the furniture industry. That is to say, the forest has a corresponding economic significance. This is also underlined by the fact that the export proceeds from the forest sector in 1996 amounted to 28.45 billion schilling. These figures show the importance of the forest. But the forest also has a corresponding recovery effect. Especially during the Austrian Presidency in the European Union, I would like to thank Minister Molterer very much for this, a new forestry strategy has been adopted, with which the forest is also relevant. We hope that this strategy will be included in Agenda 2000. This has made a milestone in the European forestry strategy. To a special area: In 1987 the Federal Forests were subdivided into its own Bundesforest AG. At the time, the persons entitled to the service were very concerned that their rights were not subsequently exercised to the appropriate extent. But now we can be pleased to note that, with the help of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, 33 points were agreed on by the 34 points which the Association of Investigations then so to speak as claims to the Federal Forests. One point is still open: the conversion of scattering rights into wood relations rights. But all the other points could be dealt with with with with with by the persons entitled to the service. These are important areas that have recently been able to be fed in connection with the forest of completion. We will vote in favour of the forest report – albeit late, but we will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19762	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19783	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A advanced hour – and still no star hour of the forest! The forest report has had the same main theme for ten years, namely the difficulties in the protection of forests. For ten years, the same problem, Mr. Minister; You may not know this for that long as you are a minister. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God, he's been in business for 15 years!]] But 85 percent of the forest areas with rejuvenation options suffer from the wild. I do not know, Mr Khol, whether you are a hunter. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! Son of a bitch!]] Fortunately not! In this respect, I do not need to address you personally, but only to appeal to your colleagues, who are likely to be guilty of damage to the wild in the forests by placing special importance on a proper hunting tropic. For you know that the wild is fed because of the trophy; the wild then goes to the forest, and the forest suffers. You know all these chain reactions. The environmental lawyers say that this is a greater damage than the air pollutants, namely ground-made, homemade wildlife. [[Abg. Großruck: Murmeltiere und Snowhasen!]] This has been the problem for ten years, and for ten years nothing has been done about it. There should finally be something going on here in order to stop the game. – That was the first area. The second area, which is also mentioned... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is that the eye-and-mouths or the snow-hares?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I'll take a little while unless I'm supposed to answer your calls, then it'll take a little longer. The second area is also related to hunting. They know that the hunters are interested in the development of the game and therefore block certain areas. There is, on the one hand, the Alpenverein, on the other hand, also the nature lovers, who insist that freedom of the way in the forest continue to be ensured so that the forest fulfils its full function of recreation and tourism. This is, of course, in conflict with hunting interests, and it is important to achieve a balance. That is why I would like to make the following request in the near future: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is in the interest not only of the Alpine and nature conservation associations, but also of the Austrian tourism industry. Negative leader in these restrictive arrangements is unfortunately the Styria. There is an increase in barriers in the hiking and ski tourism areas in the forest areas, which is already blatant. Now a small stretch to the forest roads: Unfortunately, their number is increasing more and more. 31 percent of the growth rate in forestry roads is an blatant increase compared to the normal road network. Minister for Agriculture, I think you should further reduce forestry - also in the sense of ecological forestry. There are also other means of delivery. Finally, I would like to point out that I am referring briefly to the Federal Forest with its rationalization efforts in the sense of exclusion. 200 workers of the Federal Forests were practically released into the forest "freed", cancelled, "set free", as it is called in the "Time in the Picture" Jargon. Unfortunately, they have been released as to how to formulate it in real political terms. I think that the privatisation or partial privatisation of the Federal Forests is about the strands. The profit concept in relation should be brought to a sustainability in the social field. Overall, the forest report offers many approaches to a progressive, relatively advanced policy. [[In the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer, averted from the microphone:]] Minister! In the sense of Upper Austria, I can also speak to the protected forests again. [[Call the SPÖ:You don't hear anything!]] - Environmental lawyer Wimmer! It is also a task for you in the 1999 election year to do something.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19896	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser on the protection of the forest as a recreational area is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Rainer Wimmer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19920	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that this forest report is an excellent document; it is an important instrument in particular. We only have the problem that this study is over two years old. Perhaps one should consider treating at least several parts of this report more up-to-date. But I think we should also mention positively that this annual state analysis is being carried out in Europe the most well-founded. This report has an international format. I would therefore like to thank all officials on this occasion who have contributed to the implementation of this report in the form in which it is available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] How does the state of our forest really look? – It actually shows a situation as in previous years: increasing forest areas and increasing wood stocks. It is also gratifying to see the further increase in foliage and mioculars. Nevertheless, this forest report does not give a positive picture of the overall state. There is a very strange situation. But quantity – measured on the increase here – is not always equivalent to quality. What are the problems? – As in previous years, we are dealing with the problem areas of air pollution and pollutants. This report cites sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and ammonia as dangerous pollutants. As the second area, this is already a legendary traffic problem due to game and pasture cattle. Especially the federal states of Tyrol and Salzburg are affected. We simply have to think that about 80 percent of the total rejuvenation will fail and have no chance of coming up. Ladies and gentlemen! Our forests are aged, the natural rejuvenation does not work at all. As already mentioned, the whole of the wild management has, of course, a direct influence on the waste situation. I know the hunters don't like to hear this, but the problem of wild density is still upright. It won't help us the best programs for our forests if we don't control them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Long-term measures will only take place after years throughout the forest economy. Forest conservation is really a generation project. It will be particularly important to coordinate and continue the fight against emissions, particularly at European level. In this sense, we will give our approval to the forest report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19972	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19994	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the 1996 forest report today – that is, 1999 – although the forest report mentions an annual presentation of this report. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Haven't you noticed? – I have explained the reasons!]] Mr Schwarzenberger, listen to: There are also arguments such as those that the results of the Austrian forest inventory will not be available until the end of 1997 or that the preparations of the EU Presidency would have taken so much time, in my opinion, nothing. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's true too!]] In my opinion, these are excuses which cannot be tolerated, especially since the head of the Section for Forestry, Director Mannsberger, announced in September 1997 that the forest report was almost finished. He literally said: The forest report is almost complete and is coming to Parliament in the near future. In the future, the data for the assessment of forest damage will include land networks. – That is what he said in September 1997, so I think that is an excuse. This "next" was a very long one, it lasted from 1997 to 1999. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The recent forest report shows that forest areas and wood stocks – as has already been mentioned here – have also increased in 1996, around 7 700 hectares. However, damage to waste, stem damage and air pollution continue to endanger the stability of the forest. The report also shows that despite intensive rationalisation measures, the yield situation of the Austrian forestry industry is critical. This is said in the report on the situation at that time; in the meantime, the situation has improved thanks to God. The number of forest workers is likely to decline for these reasons too. This is a sign that agricultural policy is also required in the forestry sector, which will ensure future economic survival for farms. Mr Minister of Agriculture, I would like to ask you politely.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20043	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. Mr deputies, how much time do you want to have?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20072	Visoki Dom! Spoštovane! High house! Mr President. Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Laku noč, Visoki Dom!]] We are dealing with a very old problem. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you know what "NAWARO" means?]] That's these oranges, isn't it? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No! "Sustainable raw materials"!]] That's right. Do you know what "Z" means? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can talk!]] That's the fence...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20139	Please, I'll have to say "for business" soon!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20154	That's the fence that the forest nurses have to build around their seedlings. It's called "Z." Did you know what "Z" means? - You didn't know that. So, and now we're going back to the seriousness of the subject. It's about the old conflict forest care – wild hege. I think we should take up the suggestion I have already made in the Committee: that we should perhaps try to resolve this conflict in the form of a hearing, if not, but to exaggerate it. Allow me, Minister, to bring a brief quote from the very beloved newspaper "Look into the Land" from the number one of this year. There is the talk of two courageous Upper Austrian farmers, who are not particularly popular in Upper Austria, who make a very clear statement that concerns me a little: By feeding power feed from September to April, partly also in summer, as well as by rigorous hunting of predators such as foxes, roofs, martens or meadows, all of which are natural enemies of deer kittens, young rabbits and various wild birds, the wildlife in the domestic and domestic ruckviertel has increased steadily. [[Abg. Leikam: What's going to be fed there?]] - Quote. What the two of them are saying for this region is true, I believe, for many regions in Austria. Of course – this is not unimportant – the rat and mouse levels as well as the loss and the various consequential damage, namely the peeling and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, these are very serious statements by Forestry ministers who are deeply affected by the situation. We know that the withdrawal quotas are still not fulfilled. Although I do not believe that simply fulfilling the quotas – that would certainly be something – would have to do with the matter as a whole, because they cannot be fulfilled simply; although they are not sufficiently fulfilled. However, I think that the artificial breeding of the wild is not ecological, but that it really has to do with the fact that many hunters believe that only in the way they get enough game and the best trophy. What fills me with joy – and I hope that this is true – is a new, completely up-to-date study by the Institute of Wild Biology and the hunting industry at BOKU. It says: It has also been demonstrated experimentally that wildbred weight has increased by 50 percent by a feeding stop, that the trophy strength has remained unchanged and at the same time has decreased the loss damage. – That means that there is a very important new knowledge. I think that this investigation should lead to some consolation, Mr Minister, and perhaps this problem in a hearing which I would like to encourage, perhaps on the basis of this current study. Of course, it will never be possible to align these two positions entirely. But in the end it is possible to take the damage seriously due to loss. This is not a minor damage to the forestry industry, and it is not a bagatelle, but a huge effort is needed, even a great material effort, that a forestry can be carried out. In the end, however, there is a danger that this reforestation will not be enough. I would like to say with satisfaction that there is now something like a wood certification. This too, I believe, is a very important step forward. It is certainly good that we see links in this area: not only the forest itself, but the forest in the whole context of hunting and tourism, with nature conservationists and also as a pure source of employment for forestry farmers. Therefore, a clear demand: no energy tax on biogenic fuels! That's very important. I see this as a prerequisite for creating an additional source of employment for farmers and also for forestry farmers. There are many farmers who also operate forestry. In this sense, I would like to stress: From my point of view, it would be important once to get people involved in forestry and hunting and tourism as well as nature conservationists together in a hearing, so that we can deal with the forest in the overall problem. This overall view is necessary, there must be no particularism. All those involved in the forest – in the end, all people – should have the opportunity to participate and address this problem once. In principle, the forest situation has improved slightly. I think that's true. There are fewer pollutants; some have improved, especially in the case of sulphur dioxide. But it is also true that we still have some addresses to our neighbouring countries, especially Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. We should also be courageous to deal with some of these major problems in a discussion with our neighbours, and perhaps this will also enable the Austrian industry – this has happened before, at least I know it for Slovenia – to pull random orders off the shore. I think it would be possible, on the one hand, to encourage self-help and, at the same time, to participate as an Austrian company in the renovation of larger emission sources. We Liberals will vote in favour of this report. It has been very well worked out, it also shows some progress. One can be satisfied; perhaps not satisfied, but more satisfied. In this sense one can say: Mr Minister, if you, as a responsible politician, perhaps take even greater and more courageous steps, you will certainly be the praise of the Liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20193	Mr Smolle, have you read the request?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20237	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out a very special problem very quickly and bring forward a motion for a resolution by Mrs Schaffenrath, Mr Smolle and Mr Mag. Barmüller for reading. It concerns the production of chipboards and the emission limits. We have been aware of this since 1992 and we have been waiting for a regulation from the Minister for Economic Affairs since 1996. We are therefore forced to table this motion for a resolution. He fits very well into today's matter. Allow me to read this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that is a request that can at least be accepted, and I assume that the government parties will also vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20289	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Langthaler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20313	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, I would like to address an aspect of the forest report, which, of course, is particularly exciting from an ecological point of view, and these are air emissions – they are also mentioned in the report – especially sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, but above all ground-based ozone. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] A recent report by the European Environment Agency last year, Federal Minister, gives the results of an EU-wide study on the over-acidification of the soils, and Austria is increasing as one of the worst countries. What is above all mentioned in this study and what I am always trying to point out is that both in the agricultural sector and, of course, in the environmental and energy sectors, we finally have to think about competence across borders. The air emissions are not original in areas for which your place of business is responsible, but they come from the transport sector and from areas for which the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible, but, if one wants to reduce the burden on the forest, the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture to interfere actively. That is why I would like to make the most of my speech to ask you to interfere with the other ministries in a timely and permanent manner when it comes to reducing air pollutants. This relates primarily to the area of transport, to which I hardly hear any comments from the agricultural sector when it comes to new road projects. We have permanent growth rates in the transport sector, with rising emissions which cannot be offset, for example, by the use of catalysts et cetera, but which cannot be compensated for by your project of the biodiesel: If you mix 2 or 3 percent of your biodiesel into the normal diesel, you can't even intercept the growth rates. As you know, you will not reduce nitrogen oxide emissions either; this only has an impact on CO2, because it is a regenerative source, and that is why we welcome it. However, it is unlikely that even the additional emissions will not really be able to be eliminated. That's why I'm once again concerned: If you look at the 1996 forest report – it will be the same in 1997 and 1998 with regard to air emissions – and if you want to change in this regard, then it will simply be necessary that you really interfere with other regions more than before and that you also try to act as a Minister for Agriculture on transport projects or on projects relating to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The question raised by Mr Smolle is an infinite story. I shall, of course, vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. I have this motion for a resolution, I think, has already been put here ten times, it has always been rejected, and it will be rejected again today. This is an infinite story that should have been given a solution for a long time. That is why the Greens are calling on you, Mr Minister, not only to ensure that your party colleague, the Minister of Economic Affairs, will act accordingly in the field of chipboard regulation, but above all to try to really interfere in the transport sector if you, as Minister of Agriculture, are interested in reducing air emissions that are constantly damaging the forest in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20359	Mr Schrefel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20381	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Sustainable attention is given to the forest as a diverse livelihood and as a habitat. Forests and woodworking continue to grow in Austria. So it grows more wood than is beaten. A statistical figure that can be easily noted: In Austria, 1 m3 of wood grows per second. It is gratifying that the proportion of foliage and mioculars has increased continuously since 1970 and is already 35 percent. The forest/wild problem, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly still an unresolved problem, especially according to the forest report, where this can be read under the title of 'fortification damage' 85 per cent of the forest area with rejuvenation; the discussion in the committee on this is usually conducted in the form of very emotional debates. This percentage seems to me to be over- or misinterpretation as a practicer and non-hunters, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, the forest report makes a consistent distinction between the use of waste as a vegetation by the wild and the damage caused by it as an obstacle to the rejuvenation of forests. For of the 501,000 hectares of rejuvenated areas, which can be read in Table 7 below, a total of 425 000 hectares, i.e. 85 percent, are found to be waste through shelled game, but only on 141 000 hectares – that is 28 percent – the forest rejuvenation has a not sufficient stock, so-called losses. Perhaps the decision taken by the National Council Committee in March 1995 should be considered as tabular at the level of the district forestry inspections, because these reports are based on annual estimates, whereas the forest report is based on objective data from the forest inventory, which are used most selectively and are spread and distributed over a five-year period. This is also the request, the recommendation of the Institute of Wild Biology and the hunting industry at the University of Soil Culture: The previous procedure provokes a loss of credibility in forestry policy statements, including here in the House. - That's the institute. In essence, however, it can be said – and here I agree with the Federal Minister – that we can be proud of our forest in Austria. That next week at the "Austrian Forest Farmers' Day" state prices are awarded for exemplary forest management by the Federal Minister is once again proof that the 214,000 Austrian forest owners are aware of their responsibility as users and keepers of this diverse habitat and therefore also deserve the thanks of the public and society. The Austrian loves its forest, and the forest report is an excellent documentation that will be made even more comprehensive in future and will also be offered to citizens via the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20430	The next speaker is Mr Koller. Mr President, you still have a speaking time of 3 minutes available, which is the remaining speaking time of your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20451	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Nearly 47 percent of the federal territory is covered with forest. The forest area increases continuously with 7 700 hectares per year. In the farm forest only about half of the growth is used, the Austrian Federal Forests use 94 percent. According to forest inventory, the annual impact of wood is around 19.5 million stocks – that's only 2 percent of the standing wood stock! The increase is 27.3 million stocks. The research reserves are estimated at 64.5 million stockFestmeters – the heavy weight is here in the small rural forest. Ladies and gentlemen! Around one fifth of the Austrian total forest area serves as a protection forest. Many stocks in the protected forest are most at risk due to their aging, insufficient rejuvenation and diverse external effects. There is a need for action here: Rehabilitation measures need to be stepped up. Ladies and gentlemen! The restrictions on imports of wood from non-European countries have become stricter, and imports of wood from European third countries have been liberalised. Since April 1995, it has been possible to introduce coniferous wood into cattle from European third countries without control at the border. Although checks at the domestic destination are carried out, I have expressed concerns in the Committee because the many firewood imports from the Czech Republic and Hungary cannot be controlled in small trucks. The forest report is a very valuable source of information – thanks to the officials who took it. However, taking note of it would mean contributing to the missing forest and forestry policy of the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20488	Mr Schwemmlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Ruf:A boar stands in the forest]] The call is not bad: "A boar stands in the woods!" – This fits well with the forest report. [[Abg. Blünegger: Quiet and silent!]] Still silent? – No, very loud in this case – but not in the forest, because I think very well of the animals that live there. Ladies and gentlemen! To the forest report: A number of previous speakers have already reported quite interesting data, which I would like to stress and underline once again because of their importance. It is very much concerned with the problem of wild waste. Now I think: If the report already describes the drama in such a way that 40 per cent of the forest is affected by the decay, that 85 per cent – Mrs Moser has already said so – of the forest areas with necessary rejuvenation have an influence, and then the report states that 33 per cent of the forest area shows a balance of forest, game and pastures, then I can make the reverse and find that this ecological balance is not given to two thirds of the forest. And there, I think, Mr. Federal Minister, we must act. The fact that we have to act has become clear to me alone that I have looked at the figures and tried to determine what approaches I have taken. You want to solve this problem. To this end, I read in the forest report in the column "Foresight Damages" – I quote literally –: "It remains to be hoped that the damage monitoring systems in some federal states, which directly respond to the withdrawal plans, will improve in the future." It may be all right, Minister, to express your hope in solving a problem. But I do not think we are yet solving a problem with the articulation of hope. And why don't we solve this problem? . I would like to refer once again to the report, namely the information on the wild shoot. If you look at the figures in Table 77 - whether they refer to hair game or to feather game - you can see from 1992/93 to 1996/97 consistently that the drop in the number of shots is declining. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude that it is probably not enough to complain on the one hand that the wild waste is the biggest problem in the domestic forest, on the other hand, to find that the wild shoots have fallen, and on the third, to express the hope of somehow getting these figures down. I believe that – and I am firmly convinced that we are all much more demanding. If we want to help the forest to protect the forest, we need to get through more consistently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The reason for this – this top is allowed to me – that the numbers of shot-outs are falling is probably not because the number of existing firearms is too small. There must be another reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] However, I do not want to confine myself to this issue, Mr Minister, but to another essential point. I have a graphic here that shows how imports and exports represent themselves in the wood sector. This graph shows that the area of furniture made of wood presents itself passively for the Austrian current account. I therefore think that we should in all cases insist on creating further incentives in the field of finishing, because this not only creates jobs, but also manages to achieve a value added by producing high-value goods, which we urgently need in the area of the forest. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, The report before us is quite interesting and is quite able to show us the problems in the form that we can draw conclusions from them. If we know and recognize problems, we should launch comprehensive reforms as soon as possible. That is why I do not just ask you, Minister, to do so I ask all of us to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20570	The next speaker is Mr Sauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20591	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A sentence in the direction of Mr Schwemlein: You may have overlooked, Mr President, that in recent years, in the years starting in 1990, the numbers of wild game species, especially red game, have increased considerably. The fact that these shooting figures are going down is just a natural conclusion from this situation, because the wildlife has been heavily involved in order to reduce natural damage – one will never be able to prevent it completely. On the one hand, however, the natural rejuvenation will have to be distinguished between waste and wild damage. If a natural rejuvenation with about 10,000 trunks on a hectare has bitten 1,000 trunks, then that is certainly a waste. But if I tell you that some 9 700 or 9 600 of these 10,000 strains have to die by natural departure or withdrawal, that means as much as: I don't think there's any damage. – That only to clarify this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You have to... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Don't do anything! I can explain it to you later. [[Call the SPÖ: Why don't you do it?]] You also have to interpret forest damage properly. We have restricted wildlife in many areas and thus prevented forest damage in many areas. In the case of about 4 million hectares of forest, I believe that if less and less land is given the occurrence of wild damage and forest damage, there must certainly be some respect and a certain degree of participation. But you also have to interpret: The fact that in Lower Austria, for example, the damage to the skin has recently been reduced by 45 percent, but the total number of peeled trees has increased slightly shows that the use of these trees has not taken place. On the other hand, the decrease in peel damage in the Styria, but also the number of peeled strains, is due to the fact that the use of these peeled strains has taken place at the right time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we have this report. We can read many things and learn a lot from them, but we also need to try to interpret this report properly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20630	The next speech is by Mrs Aumayr. – Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this speech cannot take place because the speaking time that is left out of your group is already exhausted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a good news!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This only proves that we have not been given enough speaking time in the Presidential Party!]] I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20673	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Perhaps colleague Aumayr could have informed us about the attitude of her party to the forest report. For Mr Salzl has expressed mostly criticism, while Mr Koller has surprisingly said that the report is valuable and good, and then has justified or not justified why he does not take him into account. I don't understand. If something is good, I have to take note of it in this form. – So this was an admirable spatula and reminds me of that speech by Mr Gudenus – some of those who have already been inside here in 1994 will perhaps remember – in which he meant that we should stop the recycling of paper in order to protect forest farmers. That would be the solution. At that time, colleagues Schweitzer, as environmental spokesperson, easily "throwed" when Gudenus said that. That was a similar harsh idea. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Langthaler surprised me with an investigation – I didn't fully understand where she was from – into the over-acidification of the soils. [[Abg. Fischl: What do you even understand?]] She meant Austria is getting out of here the worst. I don't understand that either. I do not know this study – I know a German study, the "German Forest Report", and I also suggested in the Committee that this is done in parallel with our forest status survey in Austria – but, please, this cannot be true that, while our forest is significantly among the best forests in Europe and in Germany it goes further downhill, our soils should be worse than the Germans. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Fischl]] It's not understandable to me. I would like to see the study by Mr Langthaler. Maybe she just started a little Bluff here. It must be pointed out, however, that we - Mr Minister, I have only recently noticed this - have enormous residues of research: 70 million feet, with an annual increase of 6 million feet. I think that's lost biomass! It is precisely your group, which is very much committed to biomass, that is now again on biodiesel. One should really talk about this – as I believe my clubman – but one really has to do with real cost-benefit analysis, even with the environmental impact involved. I think it is just as important to talk about the question of the Spanpplattsverordnung, in which, I think, Mr Khol from Tyrol as a "pre-warrior" is also responsible for the fact that we continue so "swiftly". So you should look at that, because that's a real problem: Because of these permeability residues – so I have let it explain – the forest becomes too dense where it is not underforested, and a part breaks down. This is lost biomass and also leads to certain damage such as snow pressure and so on. We should therefore be able to take up models by which we can catch up with these through-forestation residues. It has already been said by colleagues Koller – again very correctly – that we do not have this problem in the Federal Forests and in the large forestry farms. But we have the problem in the rural forest. To this end, we must also say, Mr Koller, that many of the smaller farmers – thanks to the prices they are currently achieving – still see the forest as a "parkasse" for bad times. But I believe that this is a conclusion, because if you do not search through, then the rest of the wood is not particularly good either. I believe that this forest report – if we are dealing with it, Mr Salzl, and we are getting up-to-date information, then we know that our knowledge is not based on the state of 1996 but that it is going much further, up to very current information – in total, to allow the conclusion: Our forest can be seen! I do not want to underestimate the fact that there are, of course, problems. It is quite clear that we also need to do a lot about air emissions here. However, Mr Langthaler has also just mentioned the "house-made" here again and has forgotten that we get a very huge "page" from our eastern neighboring countries, which certainly – and proveably, if you look at the areas – contributes to the damage to the forest. I think we should be proud of the state of our forest, but not become overly proud. There are problems, from wild waste, through forestry problems and issues of emissions to the SPDs regulation, which we should really design in a timely manner, Mr Khol. This is not an "old cheese", but it is precisely from the Federal Environment Agency, which belongs to your department, a wonderful study that hardens the concern of all these applications, even in this area of technology, to take account of the state of the art. In this sense, I wish our forest a continuing good future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20715	This is what Mr Deputies has to say. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20736	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although we are discussing a late forest report, we are all the better about it. In principle, the forest report shows that the state of the forest has improved significantly in recent years. If you look at the size of the forest, you can see a clear trend. Since the 1980s, the increase in the forest area of Austria has remained unchanged. In the case of the growing forest areas, it should be noted positively – and this shows that forestry measures are taking place – that the proportion of deciduous and meddling forests is increasing at the present time by 35 percent, as Miwolders are more resistant. The increase in the milders is proof that the direction the Minister of Agriculture has taken with the forestry measures is correct. I am particularly pleased that the current price situation in wood has improved considerably. As the forest report points out, despite success, there are still problems that give rise to action. For example, we still have to deal with mistakes of the past: On the one hand, these are deteriorations in forest soil conditions, such as over-acidification of the forest soil, and on the other hand, increased pests, caused by preferred spruce and pine monocultures and environmental influences. Specific advisory and promotion measures are being used to tackle the same problems. In this context, I should like to express my special thanks to the members of the Chambers of Agriculture for their excellent work in supporting forest farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Due to a wide variety of environmental influences caused by the forest farmers themselves, there is a serious shortage of nutrients in the forest soil. The result is a strong surface soil acidification. This is the reason for the numerous crown reliefs, or it even leads to large-scale deaths of spruces in the affected stocks. With the relatively simple but unfortunately very expensive means of fertilization, the nutrient content can be quickly and reliably fixed. I therefore urge, Mr Federal Minister, to rethink the current level of federal aid for forestry structural measures, to adapt and increase them to the current situation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Minister Molterer for his consistent commitment to the implementation of the European Forest Strategy. On the basis of his initiative, although this project was given little chance, the Austrian Presidency was able to adopt this resolution in the Council of Agriculture Ministers in December last year. While the responsibility for forestry policy remains with the Member States, action in the same way is far more effective. The forestry strategy is therefore a healthy basis for the future. Content is a clear commitment – including this forest report – to the multifunctional role of forests and sustainable forest management. Because a sustainable farmer Forest promotes employment, the well-being of people and the quality of the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20788	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20810	Mr President. High house! First – in due course –: The forest report shows progress in the state of the forest, but at the same time shows us where we still have problems that we should not deny. However, there are also very positive developments in the forest-wild question raised. In my view, the forest report will only be presented in this form every two years in the future. This will be reported annually as prescribed by the Forestry Act, namely the damage to wild animals. Meanwhile, the new technology uses the Internet for information. Secondly, We welcome the economic development we have in the forestry sector. After a positive year in 1997, 1998 has also been economically very, very well. In this year too, a good perspective is given. Thirdly, We have set particular priorities in Austrian forestry policy, Mr Doppelmüller. For example, by promoting forest-economic communities, we want to support agricultural forest ownership to increase the economic use of the forest on the one hand as income potential, on the other hand as a biomass potential. Fourth: At European level, the forestry strategy is now the common basis. I am proud that we have succeeded in making this decision. Fifth, you open a bottle In Europe, the Agenda decision is pending. It contains very positive prospects in rural development for the forestry sector, whose implementation we carry out together with others in a massive way. Sixth and last: Austria currently has a high level of commitment to forestry at international level. Austria is chairing the Pan-European Forestry Process, which, far beyond the European Union, requires all European countries to have a common strategy in the forestry sector. We will carry out this task responsibly for the next four years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20853	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There is no need for a final word on the part of the report. We shall therefore vote, and we shall vote on the committee's request to take note of this report III-139 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of receiving this report may give a sign of approval. – The report shall be taken into account by a majority of the votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades on the protection of the forest as a recreational area. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on reducing emissions of air pollution. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (26d Vr 10719/98) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider (1569 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Landesgericht Klagenfurt (17 EVr 2163/98, 17 Hv 176/98) for approval of the administrative persecution of the Member of the National Council Heinz Anton Marolt (1584 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20942	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda. The debate is under one. Oral reporting has not been desired. There is no word message. That is why the debate is closed. There is no final word for reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will take place separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 1569 to decide on the following: 1. In the case of the request of the Regional Court of Criminal Matters of Vienna of 30 June 1885, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States relating to the one Member States of the one Member State or to the one 2. An official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haider is approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – This request has been accepted by the majority. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Schweitzer has sat down! He doesn't want Haider to be delivered? – This is interpretable behavior!]] We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1584 to decide on the following: 1. In response to the request made by the Landesgerichts Klagenfurt of 21 December 1988, the Court of First Instance referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling a question for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Commission of the Member States of the one Member State or of another Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Commission of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council Heinz Anton Marolt is hereby approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This request has been accepted by the majority. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20981	We now come to a series of votes on time-limits which have not been debated, but which must now be voted on. I'll call her in a row. First of all, we are voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment 607/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create framework conditions that facilitate the establishment of businesses by setting up central contact points for business founders in public authorities, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment 608/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create a framework that facilitates the creation of businesses through cost-benefit analysis for new laws also with regard to the implementing companies, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment 609/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create a framework that facilitates the establishment of businesses through horizontal fiscal justice between funds invested in financial and property capital, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 610/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create framework conditions that facilitate the establishment of companies by repealing the Workers' Protection Act while at the same time recoding workers' protection, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Members. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 611/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create framework conditions that facilitate the establishment of companies by repealing the shop opening time law with the aim of fully releasing shop opening times, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Whoever agrees to this request may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 612/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create a framework that facilitates the creation of businesses by further liberalising the right to enter the business system, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 613/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create framework conditions that facilitate the creation of enterprises by more anchoring self-employment as a learning and schooling principle and teaching goal, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 614/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades on the establishment of a framework that facilitates the establishment and survival of enterprises by abolishing authorisation procedures on the occasion of takeovers and extension of operations, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Whoever agrees to this request may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 615/A (E) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades to create a framework that facilitates the creation of businesses through process concentrations across Austria, a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on Amendment 513/A by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades concerning a law impact assessment law a period of time until 22. ==References====External links== Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21131	We are now entering the negotiations on the request of Dr Schmidt, Dr Petrovic and comrades for the establishment of an investigation committee on the political responsibility of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice, as well as suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of three Kurds on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these suspects. The request has been distributed to all Members of this House. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21181	We are going into the debate. I would like to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: Each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speech time of 10 minutes for the reason. The opinions of the members of the Federal Government or the State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Heide Schmidt, the applicant. It has a speaking time of 10 minutes for its contribution to the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21208	Mr President. High house! ==References== In January 1999, the Minister of Justice of the Federal Government gave a presentation stating that the ads were returned against the current President of the Federal Republic of Germany Kletil and the former ministers Foregger, Lösnak and Mock. It has also stated that the judicial system has found that no evidence of further investigations against the guilty Iranians can be found. Therefore, the procedure, as provided for in the Criminal Procedure, was terminated until the future discovery. After these findings, we are facing a new situation for the discussion here in the house. For it has been the main argument of the representatives of the government groups that it is not appropriate to set up a committee of inquiry because it does not make sense to conduct a parallel procedure. This has already been said to us when an internal revision took place in the ministries for external, internal and judicial affairs. It is only to be remembered that the Foreign Minister was initially unwilling to carry out this, and only through the public debate did he decide to do so. But that was the argument: Now investigations are taking place anyway. After these were completed and advertisements were reimbursed for their abuse of office – based on these reports – it was the main argument of the representatives of the government groups here in the House: Now the criminal investigations are running, and now it would not be useful to carry out a parallel parliamentary investigation. Now both have been completed, both the internal revision and criminal investigations. It is therefore necessary to re-examine whether a committee of inquiry is necessary or not in order to clarify political responsibility. [[Abg. Grossruck: It has been set!]] Mr President, I should like to thank If you say here that the criminal investigation is sufficient, then you have a very strange understanding of political responsibility. Because if, for you, the level of political responsibility is criminal law, we know what you think of political culture. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What do you mean "stand up"? – If you really do deposit here through your calls that criminal law is the standard of political responsibility for you, then it is a revelation about it – should this be shared by the colleagues of the government groups ÖVP and SPÖ – which standards you are setting. It also allows interesting conclusions on how you otherwise deal with your life, if you only fail to do so, which is forbidden by criminal law. We have a different idea of political responsibility. [[Abg. Grandruck: Thank God!]] Thank God, that's true. Regardless of the fact that I think it is a very self-evident assessment of you to seek criminal law, I think it is also impossible to think because there are simply political errors that are not covered by criminal law at all – and that for good reason. There is therefore another instrument to clarify political responsibility, for example in the case of ministers, a motion of censure. What would we need if criminal law were the only latte? – Then you could just put him in court, and so the story would be done. Fortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not provide that way. In a democracy – not only in Austria – there is therefore a corresponding instrument, and one of the control instruments for identifying political responsibility is a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If you now say that a committee of inquiry has also fallen in the event of non-identification of criminal offences, I ask you: In what situation is there even a committee of inquiry possible for you? . I would be interested if one of the parliamentarians from the government groups would explain to us here, so that we know what idea you are dealing with this provision of the Rules of Procedure and this task of Parliament at all. If you say – not just criminal law – that there is simply nothing more to investigate in this matter, then I would like to remind you of a few things that have now emerged during the criminal investigation. I do so because I do not see the point of the Committee of Inquiry as so much in finding a misbehavior of individuals, but I think that the meaning of a committee of inquiry in this matter is much more important. What is Austria's attitude to a terrorist regime with a regime that uses terrorist methods? What is the Austrian administration's position, and are Austrian top politicians – that is, ministers – dealing with such a regime? It is therefore necessary to clarify in a committee of inquiry how it was in the past in order to draw the conclusions of the future. This must be done so that this regime cannot rely on pressure for all times, and everyone immediately gets to his knees. This is my interest as an Austrian and a parliamentarian, and this interest can only be clarified by a committee of inquiry. I think it is a matter of facing these rulers either with an inflexible backbone – or, as it were, presumptuous willingness to bow to pressure from whatever motivation. There are very bad motives which have already been assumed in this context. I don't even want to do that. I believe, for example, that the motivation for being concerned about security and the lives of Austrians is a very decent motivation. But this does not change the fact that it is necessary to clarify whether, out of this motivation, one has bowed down to pressure, has yielded intervention and has passed on these interventions. This is what I am reading in a statement that has now been made in connection with this criminal investigation. It is the witness hearing of a journalist who worked and researched for the "standard" at the time, and who now under the duty of truth – therefore there is a more intense situation – gives the following to the record. Although he refers to the media law and therefore to his editorial secret as regards his interlocutors, he does not give any more details about the content of the conversation, but he submits a note which is thus covered by the obligation of truth. In other words, it cannot be said that this is a journalist who is concerned with effectiveness. The following is to be read in this file note – the informant is a prosecutor who says –: The basis for the whole debate was, among other things, that those who called and intervened by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am still in a dark memory – but I can no longer make the connection – in connection with the arrest warrant that any premise has also made that it is not very appropriate to release arrest applications because there is nothing to destroy in relation to relations with Iran and so on. The foreign office was therefore very nervous that everything could be disturbed. – A statement of truth. The then head of the EBT says: I believe today that there has been an information deficit in the justice system, but I am not responsible for it or for the EBT. There was no intervention with me personally. It was clear to me, however, from the events of all the meetings I took part in, that there was a massive amount of intervention. – These are statements of truth. It's not official abuse. But if you say that these things are not in need of information and that political responsibility for them can be given the resolution in the past, I think that your slut, which you are putting on political culture and responsibility, is simply too low and without responsibility. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That is why I would like to ask you, in the light of the current events and of the statements in place, to agree to this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21281	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Madam honourable Member, you have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21302	Mr President. High house! I have chosen earlier questions and requests aimed at setting up an investigation committee in the Causa Kurden-Morden. I remember: The 1989 crime, the most famous and spectacular of such crimes, is not a single case. As early as May 1987, a Kurde, which had been lured into Vienna, Hamid Reza Chitkar – he came from Strasbourg – was killed by a neckshot and the body was found much later. However, the concerned spouse was denied the entry visa to Austria by the General Consulate in Strasbourg. Again and again the impression arises that the authorities have made their bloody business very easy, of which it is obvious that they were in a connection with the Iranian state organization. Mrs Schmidt has already referred to it, there can be various motives behind such a course of action: the fear of an extension of terror, the concern about the security of Austrians in Iran, but also far more banal and less legitimate motives such as the fear of a deterioration of business relations with Iran. That is exactly the question of political responsibility. In what situations is it legitimate to give up some pressure – perhaps even a criminal pressure – when this behavior is put in order to avoid a greater injustice, an even worse injustice? I can in principle find myself with such proof of justification, but then it must be made clear. In the specific case, I doubt that this was so high motive. In the meantime, the Ministry of Justice gives us evidence that, if one of her credibility says that she is absolutely indisputable, she has the impression that they wanted to let the Austrian prosecutor and the prosecutor die stupid at the time, and that she has not been given access to an injured prosecutor; if there are protocols from the German hearings about the fact that a former Iranian intelligence officer has said that one has deliberately injured a fellow criminal so as to create a bit of confusion at the beginning, one has known in the Iranian secret service that the Austrian authorities are informed that a terrorist attack is being prepared and one has known that Austria will do something to facilitate the way out of the perpetrators so that there is no procedure here in the country. These are statements made by an Austrian prosecutor, by Austrian security officials and by witnesses who have been heard in connection with a court case. I ask you all seriously: What else do you need of credible statements, statements of truth in order to examine at least the question of political responsibility? Are you not satisfied with an Austrian prosecutor's statement that she had the impression that her authority had been disabled and that she had not been left to the perpetrator? Isn't that serious enough? Is it really true that the level of political responsibility is only starting where perhaps a direct complicity is assumed? Then you should rightly make this prejudice of the population – I still believe that it is a prejudice – that all politicians are already in the vicinity of Ganoventum. I don't share this finding. But then give the way for a parliamentary investigation! That's the only correct answer!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21345	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote, and we shall vote on Mr Schmidt, Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades' request to set up an investigation committee on the subject I described earlier. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for the setting up of an investigation committee to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-01-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21382	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications were submitted 1000/A to 1007/A. Question No 5527/J to 5649/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 21. January 1998, 0.01 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting – one. The sitting is closed.
