ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3399	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you all and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 4th. Meeting of the National Council of the current legislative period. The official protocols of the 2nd and 3rds. Meeting of 18 March 1990 They are therefore considered approved. Mrs Hagenhofer has been reported to be prevented for the present day. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3433	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office issued the following communication on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Ms. Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs Eleonora Hostasch is through Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Barbara Prammerress. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3460	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Stabile Bundesbudgets for the years 2000 to 2003 Mr Heindl was the first speaker to speak. He'll explain the subject. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3490	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! Last week, at a meeting of the Financial Committee, Mr Böhacker, on behalf of the Freeman, said critically that Minister of Finance Edlinger would not have spoken accordingly on the issue of his decision on the implementation of the 2000 budget. However, the fact is that, and that is what we have rightly said, Minister of Finance Edlinger has given a very detailed opinion on this matter in the Committee on Budgets a few days before. Mr Böhacker, I took your critical note and I said the following: When else than now, we have the opportunity to comment on this important question that you have rightly asked for – and I have therefore proposed to my colleagues that this be the subject of this current hour. However, at that time we did not know, of course, that you will also make a urgent request by the liberals today. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We wanted to upgrade the current hour!]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is not only nothing to hide in this context, but it is indeed the case that there is an opportunity to discuss this topic in great detail to avoid misinterpretations here too, so that it is not, as has been said, a misinterpretation, or not again – as is sometimes tried – panic. Today's plenary session offers the last opportunity to discuss this issue in detail before the start of the 2000 budget implementation – for the year 2000 we do not have a budget yet. Since Minister Edlinger applied by decree to all Ministries and Supreme Institutions for 20 percent of the discretionary expenditure just over two weeks ago, some places have been excited, as we have heard. – No, you can only say that, because if you are being used to saving, some become a bit nervous. [[Abg. Scheibner: This release was a nonsense! Rightly, there was excitement about it!]] There were so many critical remarks to this effect, such as "irresponsible measure" or "budget chaos" from various sides to hear. All possible, Edlinger was suggested, only: The decisive thing has not been questioned. In fact, it was not asked: Why now? Why 20 percent of discretionary expenditure? What is the importance of saving around 20 billion schilling for the budget implementation of the year 2000 or the following budgets? Is this measure correct? Is it necessary – or: Are there alternatives? – Questions you have to ask yourself – and their answers as well. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been and will be pretended as if there were no automatic budget provisorium. It is not said that there are no budgetary negotiations without a new federal government and therefore no new budget either. It is not said that it is therefore consistently starting from 1. There is no approved federal proposal in January 2000. Nor is it said that the 2000 budget can come into force at the earliest with a three- to four-month delay, with all the resulting consequences for the forthcoming budget and the following budgets. It is also not said that the measure, which has been so strongly criticized by some in this transitional phase, is both legal and economic, the only correct and correct way of not prejudicing the 2000 budget rate, the future Federal Government, as always, and by whomever it will be put, does not prejudicate these facts. Who else but the Minister of Finance and when is there a need for action before the beginning of the new budget year?- Oh, my God! Failure to act would not have been correct, in addition, because such a non-acting, ladies and gentlemen, would have affected not only the preparation of the forthcoming budget, but also that of the following years in a way that would in no way be responsible. However, it is highly striking that this decree of the Minister of Finance was and will become strongly criticised by the political side – even social-democratic government members have expressed some concern about it. But of one This is not just a criticism, ladies and gentlemen, but even an agreement, namely an expert one. All economic researchers, the same higher representatives of the National Bank, welcome Mr Finanzminister's approach, give him the right. From this page it is said, among other things – I quote –: [[Unrest in the hall]] ==References====External links== November, reducing discretion expenditure by 20 percent is correct. In this transitional period, it is legally the only way to ensure the budgetary rate for 2000 and the following years. - Quote. I've already said it: There is so far no new eligible government and therefore no negotiated budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3550	I would just like to hear you, Mr Heindl, because Mr Trattner rightly says that you either speak too quietly or the interlocutory speeches are too loud; one of them is true.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3572	My colleague Trattner, so you can hear me better, I'll talk a little louder and go closer to the microphone. Bernhard Felder of the IHS just recently – I quote – said: The 20 percent reduction in discretionary expenditure was the only legal possibility for a transitional minister. The budget expert Lehner is even clearer and tries to express the widespread irritations in order to be careful to relativize there by saying – quote –: The scale is certainly correct in order to achieve the EU's stability objective. Professor Streissler of the WU goes in the same direction and says: In the current political situation, the only way forward is by the Minister. And Dr. Kramer of the Wifo, who said, I fully support the fact that Minister Edlinger, with a 20% reduction in discretionary expenditure, is pulling the budget emergency brake. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! The action taken by the Minister of Finance is therefore in line with a need which arises not only from a financial perspective but also from the participation of Austria in economic and monetary union and the resulting needs of the Maastricht criteria, which were further increased in quality by the Treaty of Amsterdam two years ago. It is not only about savings, but also, of course, about the objective of "balanced budgets", and it is also about developing, if possible, budget surpluses. This objective must be subordinated to the corresponding convergence programmes and must also be. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, if a Member State – we all know that – does not fulfil these obligations, it is to be expected of sanctions. The Federal Government's financial policy in recent years has taken this into account, so the deficit of the federal budgets from 1995 to 1999 has been almost halved from 4.8 percent in 1995 to 2.5 percent in 1999. All the budgets submitted by Federal Minister Edlinger and decided by a majority of us have kept, even more: The projected outputs were interrupted. This was the case in 1997, and also recently, in a debate in the Budget Committee on the clearance of accounts, it was made clear that the preliminary budget target could again be lowered. And if my information is right – which I assume – the budget target will be achieved in 1999. That is, ladies and gentlemen: For the third time in a row, the preliminary budget deficit was even lowered. There are, of course, several facts to be taken into account for the forthcoming federal estimate, such as loss of revenue, whose dimension is not negligible. I also refer to tax reform in this context. Now one could talk for a very long time about the fact that, for example, tax reform was often criticized as "too minimal", "mini-reform", it was said. But it is now apparent that it is still possible. Furthermore, I should like to refer to expenditure, for example, on the basis of the family reform, the dynamics of pension subsidies, even the increase in pensions, as well as the last increase in officials' salaries – all in all, that calls for action. I have previously quoted expert opinions on the continuation of the consolidation course, and I can therefore say: The 20 billion schilling of savings in question is not surprising, which can be achieved by means of appropriate structural measures. We believe that the budgetary principle, as a continuation of fiscal consolidation, needs to ensure that there is no increase in expenditure, but that – on the contrary! - expenditure at a level below gross domestic product should be sought. Over the course of this year, Minister of Finance, Edlinger, particularly I would like to stress that he has also said this in the election campaign, has repeatedly stressed: The budget situation does not allow for the fulfilment of generic electoral sugar. On this occasion it was noted accordingly. We Socialists want to continue the policy of fiscal consolidation. This will primarily be possible only on the expenditure side. Accordingly, we have planned a number of far-reaching proposals in our positions for a new government programme. Our objective as far as the budget is concerned is to: Sacrifice and stability – and no savings package! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3659	On the subject of this current hour, the Minister for Finance will be given the floor. The opinion should not exceed, if possible, a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3680	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by saying that I am very glad that not only this current hour, but also the urgent question this afternoon is devoted to budgetary policy. I am glad about this for several reasons, including because I believe that it is a very essential issue, especially at the beginning of a legislative period, which will ultimately have a significant impact on the entire future policy of this legislative period, is the state budget, but the budget is, as it were, the framework of those objectives which can be set by a government within which it can make proposals which will be brought into the political arena – or not. I believe that it is important, first of all, in the discussion of such an important issue that, without any reluctance, those facts are put on the table that are necessary. It is also necessary that not only those who have to do with this work on a daily basis, but also those who, as Members of Parliament, have a significant part in our country's policy, know the framework conditions that will be crucial to policy in this area in the next few years. I would just like to remind you very briefly that the Austrian Federal Government started the budgetary reform in 1996 with a comprehensive consolidation. Together with the other regional authorities, the national deficit of far more than 5 percent could be halved at the time, and not only could it be achieved those criteria that were necessary to enable Austria to join economic and monetary union, but they could also create the conditions for the resumption of certain budgetary policy areas. Even in 1999 – and I would like to take this as soon as possible – the implementation of the budget is in that consolidation plan which the Federal Government has decided to adopt, and which ultimately reduces the national deficit to about 1.4 percent by 2002 and the Federal Budget deficit to 1.9 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This objective can then be achieved if the budgetary policy also sets appropriate emphasis. I believe that the budget target for the year 2000 is achievable. But the prerequisite is that there is a budget at all. Today, just a few weeks before the beginning of 2000, it must be said, in all openness, that, in the absence of a federal government, which is also able to negotiate and decide on a budget for the future, it is not possible, from today's point of view, to present a federal proposal for the year 2000. In this necessary proposal – and I see that – it should be taken into account that the structural measures that allow us to achieve the budget objectives should also be implemented. In particular, this budget must also take into account the fact that, on the one hand, taxes resulting from family policy, on the other, but also from the tax reform, must ultimately be refinanced in part. It is also necessary to take into account the need to reduce total expenditure. In this context, I would also like to point out that last year's decisions made by the Austrians from 1st century onwards. A total of around 30 billion schillings will be available more than in the previous year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was a very conscious political act – not only in terms of any apparent benefits, but also in terms of them... – I suppose you will then speak, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many billion have you taken away the Austrians before?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Take away 100 billion and return 30 billion!]] Maybe you could listen to me for 2 minutes and just a bite... [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Once again, define what you think is polemic. [[Call at the SPÖ:Haigermoser, back to Salzburg!]] [[Call to the liberals.]] We can also have a discussion if this is allowed by the President. [[Abg. Scheibner: An intermediate call is allowed here already!]] But maybe you can report from the speaker's desk, because then I also have the chance to hear you. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't play the superinstructor here!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I am really interested in hearing what you might be able to contribute to this issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: Superinstructor!]] Maybe it's something you can use; I'd be very pleased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Look at you bringing together a budget at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Fix is at least that the policy of the Federal Government in 1998 and 1999 will provide Austrian citizens with over 30 billion schilling more in purchasing power. And this money is socially distributed so that "bottom" has a stronger effect than "top". This was also a political goal which the Austrian Federal Government has set itself. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I have always, even in the past – and I would like to point out – and sometimes at very sensitive phases such as an electoral debate, pointing out that we can only achieve the budgetary framework in the future if we are careful about promises made by the Austrian population. A serious budgetary policy also means, please, that not the distribution of the future is the determining factor, but that meaningful, smart and socially compatible savings will lead to the maintenance of the budgetary consolidation rate in the coming years, without massive cuts in the social fabric of our country. And that is why, to do so, we need to take decisive steps. I would like to make a few comments on the decisions I made two weeks ago. Of course, I originally assumed that in a relatively foreseeable time after 3. October is so clear that, before the end of the year, at least structures of a future budget are recognizable, politically borne by those who in the coming years in the form of a federal government are ready to steer the skills in this country. This has not happened. I do not want to criticize this at all, but, as Minister of Finance, I have the fact that, a few weeks before the new year begins, there is no proposal and that the Constitution wisely defines the possibilities that a Minister of Finance has in such a case in order to prevent the inability to act on the other hand: the possibility of the budget commission. In this context, we know two ways: on the one hand, the normal budget procedure, which can be carried out up to half of the previous year's budgets – not quite until the middle of the year – and on the other hand, the legal one. The budget provisional provides that the 12 parts of the previous year's forecast may be used, but with a very substantial positioning: that in any case, the legal obligations which may be higher in different areas would have to be covered by a simple 12th division of the 1999 estimate for the coverage of the statutory obligations. These are structural effects in the public service, pension adjustments, pension dynamics, the family package to name just a few things. These are legal obligations which the Federal Government has previously entered into, so that it is necessary to assume these legal obligations in this case and to reduce the other areas accordingly. In view of the fact that there is no budget, I have therefore had no other possibility at all – and has already been pointed out, and this has also been seen by the budget experts – than to save 20 percent in the field of discretional credits. This procedure, however, of course offers each Minister of State the opportunity to re-convert and save in other areas, in other areas of discretional credit or in other areas of responsibility. I already admit that this is an emergency measure, as is also an emergency measure, and that, of course, structural measures cannot be taken without the appropriate decisions of the Federal Government and Parliament by a Finance Minister, but it is my responsibility to ensure that the start-up phase for a new federal government – whoever will form them – is so burdened that the start-up to the new legislative period will be seriously difficult. That is my responsibility, and I have done so in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that I see this provisional arrangement as an absolute necessity that I am open to any structural change that comes from the departments, but I am aware that it is, of course, an important and great task to achieve our budget objective. The amount above the eligible deficit will amount to around 20 billion in 2000, in 2003, if no action is taken until then, it can be estimated to be up to 50 billion, but this does not allow the conclusion that it is a so-called budget hole, but I assume that this amount can be entered in the framework of budgetary negotiations. In previous budgets, which I have drawn up in this function, it has been a question of other amounts, which could very well be brought about by political discussions and measures. I also assume that the new Federal Government will adopt those structural measures – which ultimately also define the political objectives that this new government intends to achieve – which will find their downturn in the budgets of 2000 and in the follow-up budgets. And I think it is quite possible to go beyond the consolidation path that we have decided ourselves to take until 2002 and beyond. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3855	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the opinion. We are now entering the debate. All speaking times in the debate are set at 5 minutes. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3881	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Finance Edlinger has already given a very detailed opinion on the budgetary objectives which the next Federal Government should probably address. Allow me to try only with a few words to strengthen the essential points he has raised and perhaps to go a little more into the detail. Federal Minister Edlinger has addressed the public administration, this selective public administration, as we have it in Austria, which is a very powerful instrument of our state. This area is, of course, a very large proportion of the budget, and it is clear that in the next few years we will have to try to keep the cost development of this segment clearly below the GDP growth of this economy. That would have to be a cornerstone of every next federal government. I believe that, in addition, there must be very close attention between the local authorities to ensure that not only tasks merges are carried out but also responsibility for tasks and expenditure. I am thinking only of the national teachers, who in future should also be financed and paid by the countries. The federal contributions in these areas should be covered so that the national leaders and the national governments can show real political scope and political creativity. I mean, state teachers, hospitals financing, federal roads, housing promotion, these are areas of public administration that we need to look at more closely in the future and where we should find new solutions. The social sector, of course, also represents a significant expenditure item in our budget. Here I would like to point out that there is a study that has very critically analysed the redistribution by the public budgets in Austria and has produced very interesting results. I can only recommend that any honourable Member look more closely at this study, because it can also derive many useful thoughts and ideas for socially sound savings in our country. I only bring a comparison number: In 1983, the top third of the incomes in Austria increased to 36 percent of public expenditure, and in 1991 it was already 40 percent. In other words, there are quite possibilities here to pursue socially staged active social policy for those who need it. However, there are also very interesting results in this study on the distribution of profits and investment and the corresponding quotas. It is also recognized that since 1980 there has been a gap between profits and the resulting investment for businesses. That is to say, the loss of the virtualisation of capital and the profits generated is unfortunately also apparent in the Austrian economy as an ever-increasing warning signal, and we also need to find targeted measures here in order not to lose the virtualization of our real-life gains and our capital base. There are enormous opportunities in the area of subsidies and subsidies because there are significant positions. We know that direct subsidies – those are directly paid grants – amounting to more than 60 billion schillings per year, and that indirect subsidies – those are tax exemptions – account for around 97 billion schillings. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the tax and tax rate is concerned, too, one can approach the problem with creativity, working on it. Any federal government that will govern this country, no matter what it looks, will have to ask these questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3921	Please, Mr Third President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3942	Mr President. If we could say something louder, because if I don't hear the speaker in the first row, those in the last row won't hear him at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3975	Mr Khol has spoken out loud enough so that I do not have to repeat it. The technician is present and will certainly do the optimal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Mr Leikam is not at the floor, but Mr Dr. Puttinger gets the word for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4002	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Anxiety must not be the driving force behind action, but knowledge, competence and strength. Afraid, Mr. Federal Minister, you have responded, however, as at the ECOFIN meeting on 29 October. In November of this year, your economic forecast was published for the first time at the same time as the annual economic report and the naked figures on Austrian budget debt were announced. Anxiety should not, however, lead to an Austrian budget being brought to justice from abroad. Figures and data on budget debt should have been known to you. We of the ÖVP have always been for a strong budgetary situation. As early as 1995, Vice-Chancellor Schüssel has pointed out the need for budget renovation – the consequences are known to all of us. As a result, the Structural Adjustment Act was adopted in 1996. In 1997 the critical budgetary situation was again highlighted and was already of particular importance for compliance with the convergence criteria. I do not even want to mention all the comments made this year by Vice-Chancellor Schüssel: on 19. ==References== ==References== ==References== ==References== October. We of the ÖVP, however, stand for orderly conditions in the federal budget! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is completely incomprehensible that you, Mr. Federal Minister, then called upon us that an average of 20 percent reduction in the discretionary expenditure of the Ministries is necessary in order to be able to carry out a budget recovery. I can only show you a few "small" consequences that would bring about such a procedure: Such a reduction could even lead to the fact that school cannot be heated anymore, because, as you know very well, the principles of discretion for operating time are contained in the discretional guidelines. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I would be a bad minister!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know that the German army can no longer buy a helicopter, you know that many clubs could lose their existence – I think about Global 2000, the Alpine associations, the WWF, the Bundesjugendring and many more. [[Abg. Leikam: And to the Leitel a bit.]] It could be that the OSCE Presidency is at risk. It could be – I would like to point out – that, for example, health care in Tanzania would not be possible, because there is only one hospital for 100,000 inhabitants there, for one sixth of the area of Austria. Or: If the Minister of Justice says that there will be very serious disturbances in the service, including in the field of parole aid, in the enforcement of the law on drugs or in the provision of food, then we have to think about it! Is this all something we don't have to consider? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, it is a matter of moving forward budget renewal, shaping it together, considering it together, taking action together. And I am lacking in all your savings measures, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the approach to structural reform. Where is the expenditure reform commission that we repeatedly demand, which we have agreed with you in the context of the decision-making of the tax reform? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The EIA wants debt to account for only 1% of GDP in five years. We have to respond today and should not go into the situation of having a 2.6% debt, as the EU allows. We have proposals for this: Reducing government debt to 60 percent, non-increasing tax and tax rates, checking social transfers for effectiveness, target accuracy and abuse security, using privatisation proceeds for debt eradication. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! This is the position of the ÖVP, which is a position of knowledge, competence and strength.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4077	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4099	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, it is not a case of today: For 28 years, a socialist finance minister has been ruling in Austria, and we have come from one financial debacle to the other! That is the criticism of our part. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The structural budget deficits – this is not just an "invention" of today, but a "invention" of recent years. The problem of structural budget deficits has been going on for 20 years, and again and again you say that you want to eliminate the structural budget deficits. And what did you do? – They have always kept themselves only with one-off effects and with some cosmetic accounting over water to achieve the convergence criteria. That is our criticism! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is only now that you have been pushed out with the figures because you have pointed out to the ECOFIN Council what the budgetary situation in Austria looks like. You told your coalition partner about the media in mid-October that, despite the tax reform in the budget 2000, there is no problem at all. The few gaps you wanted to close with a few privatizations, and everything should go as further as before. But you already knew in the past year exactly how the budget was ordered. You have already resisted a tax reform last year, you have always wanted to go through a tax reform that is non-profit, that is to say, take something out of the left pocket and put something in the right pocket. You should have said already last year, even before the election: We cannot afford a tax reform under these conditions, but we must first eliminate the structural budget deficit and then proceed with a genuine tax reform in the sense of tax simplification. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What do we blame you? – We accuse you that you are constantly handling wrong budget figures. They are talking to the coalition partner, the Austrian People's Party, about interest payments in an order of 95 billion schilling. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we talked last time about discretionary expenditure in an order of 249 billion schilling. At that time, you mentioned for the first time that the interest payments in 2000 will amount to 107 billion schilling. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The ÖVP misinformed!]] 107 billion Schilling, Minister of Finance! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is also the criticism of economic researchers. You have basically only had a huge happiness that tax revenues have been constantly increased by one-off effects – and that is because you have required five-percent surcharges to the tax advance payments – that economic growth was higher than forecast. You have not implemented any structural effects or measures, and you have now enabled Austria to achieve a budget deficit of 2.6 percent and thus to be final in Europe, which will have an impact on future interest payments, in the form of the Wifo says that interest payments will rise in a range between 0.1 and 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product. What does that mean? In addition to the 107 billion Schilling interest rates, we are faced with an interest rate increase of 3 to 20 billion Schilling once again if you do not correct the federal budget. And there's no way you just have a 20 percent reduction in discretionary expenditure across all areas. You didn't even have the 8 percent at the time. When we asked you in the Committee on Budgets how to reduce discretion expenditure by 20 percent in your own home – after all, the Ministry of Finance is also affected in a scale of 1.2 billion schilling – you could not even answer it, but have said that your officials would have to think about it. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Very fair!]] So, please, it can't go on! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you want to achieve savings in a scale of 1.2 billion in your own house, you can't answer that. However, they require proposals from other sectors facing reductions in discretionary expenditure in a range of 3.2 to 3.7 billion. That's what we're criticizing. They've only done budget cosmetics, but they haven't done a debt reduction. You have only been able to reduce the debt because you have distributed ASFINAG and the municipalities and countries have made a high contribution to the reduction of debt. It is not the debt that has been decommissioned there, but the tax budgets for water and canal have been distributed. They have been "drived" with the costs and have therefore reduced the debt so that we can somehow meet the Maastricht criteria. This is not a debt policy, Minister of Finance, that is budget cosmetics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If a businessman manipulates around today, for example, a tax revenue is rebooked for tax revenue, which you have made in a size of 15 billion, then I do not know where he is landing – perhaps in the Riemergasse.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4212	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4233	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The representatives of the SPÖ, but also the ÖVP, seem to be talking about budget policy. I thought politics had something to do with planning, something to do with looking into the future, thinking about how to react to foreseeable events and developments – I emphasize the word that can be expected. You say seriously that you have done this, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP – I also emphasize: ÖVP. If you say that what has happened now, namely the proposal to cut the discretion expenditure and so on, is like a lightning from bright heaven, then I have to resist it: This is ridiculous, Mr Puttinger. Short historical review: Stability programme transmitted to Brussels. Although it says "Finanzministerium", it is a programme of the Federal Government, which still consists of SPÖ and ÖVP. Objective: 1.7 percent deficit in 2000. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr. Khol hears badly today!]] Four weeks later, December forecast of Wifo, in the January issue of Wifo's economic data – these economic data are not in any secret paper. Overview 1.11: Deficit forecast for the year 2000: 2.3%, second highest in the EU. – Response of the SPÖ-ÖVP federal government: zero! The Commission complains that the objective of the Federal Government's stability programme is far more than ambitious. – Reaction: zero! Wifo economic data from March 1999: Increase in the deficit forecast to 2.5 percent of GDP – the highest level Value within the EU, highest value within the euro area. – Response of the SPÖ-ÖVP federal government: zero! OECD Report of May 1999: Projection for the year 2000 – modest anyway –: 2.0% deficit, however, clearly indicates that these 2.0% are identical to the structural budget deficit, i.e. a better economic situation would not change. – Reaction of the Federal Government: zero! It is also clear from the OECD report that the objectives under the Stability Programme would not be sufficient to meet the 3 percent in the event of a very unfavourable economic development. – Reaction: zero! All that is shot is that in June 1999, one opens an additional hole, an uncovered check of 32 billion Schilling tax reform plus family reform. – But take care of the deficit: zero! ==References== An interview with Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger will be held on July: The 1.7 percent in 2000 would be maintained, there would be a good economic situation, and the rest, about 9 billion, could be concerned about savings. - So much about looking ahead. November 1999, economic data, overview 1.11, deficit forecast: 2.5 percent for 2000, highest in the EU. – Reaction of the Federal Government, which still consists of SPÖ and ÖVP: zero! I can only admire the long-livedness of the media representatives who listen to what you say. The only new one in the EU Commission's report on Austria is that the deficit forecast for Austria has been increased from 2.5 percent to 2.6 percent of GDP. Oh, my God, that's all the news! Everything else remains, as it is, only with an addition that may not be quite irrelevant: The distance, the distance to the other countries has increased considerably. Since March, Austria has been a leader in the deficits within the EU and the euro area, with a marked increase in the distance to the other countries. In spring, the distance to France was still a tenth point, which has now significantly increased to almost one percentage point. Furthermore, the 1.4 percent target value of the Federal Government for 2002 is also the highest value within the EU. – Congratulations, that’s what you call budget policy! And now, Mr Puttinger, I would like to say that in this crisis, the Minister of Finance, which in your opinion was absolutely not to be foreseen, wants to reduce the expenditure on discretion. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Shorten Linear!]] All this data was available to you from the ÖVP as much as I and other non-members of the Federal Government. For this to happen, you have the same responsibility as the Minister of Finance and the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4293	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4318	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democratic Party has not made budgetary development until 2003 due to the excitement caused by the Minister of Finance's saving on discretionary expenditure, but rather to the fact that, at the beginning of a legislative period, we consider this to be a very, very essential issue, because this can make clear the future design of policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you believe that we would not make a urgent request? - That was a mistake! There's no doubt that's left of us!]] That is why the Federal Minister, I believe, has already done so very clearly and in depth. He was urgently necessary, I would say, even compulsive, because he fulfills his responsibility. The reason is a relatively lapidar – and this has come out very clearly –: There is no newly appointed government and therefore only a budget provisional. The discussion on how the budget design of the next few years should look is therefore very important for setting policy objectives in the future. And although, ladies and gentlemen, the 1998 and 1999 budgets – which has been implemented – were not only in the plan, but were actually much better than planned, not least because of the care and, I would say, the firmness of our Minister of Finance, will continue to lead in the future – I mean, this has to be clarified – no way by the fact that the budget deficit has been continuously reduced. Mr Gartlehner has mentioned in a number of points how we can imagine the efficient use of state resources in the future. It is important to me, ladies and gentlemen, that all measures – from any federal government – are economically reasonable, wise, I would even like to: creative, but above all socially compatible. And, in fact, not much separates us from the approach. Economic growth and jobs must not be threatened. For me, the top priority is that the state uses its funds socially fairly – the ÖVP has called the "social security". I do not see, for example, that someone who earns 100 000 S or more is entitled to state transfers or is even to receive a child care check in the future. In other words, for me, the only right and fair approach is a step in line with the income for social benefits in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Who introduced this?]] The State's help is to be given to those who really need it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I look at the mogel pack "child care check" or even the control model of the "F", the flat tax, I have to note that two and two still have four: Fewer revenue and more expenditure can simply do nothing to reduce the budget deficit. I therefore share every further comment. I think the Austrians know very well that such beautiful election sugars and promises have a big end in an election debate. The citizens would have to pay this for themselves. And this aspect, ladies and gentlemen, has to take into account a future federal government, whoever it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4374	The Federal Minister has spoken. His speaking time as a speaker in the debate is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think the meaning of a current hour is also to exchange opinions. Please understand my speech, that I would like to make a few comments on the statements made so far, especially because the debate on this current hour is not yet over and we will deal with this issue again in the afternoon. That is why it is perhaps quite interesting to know what I have to say on one point or another. First of all, Mr Puttinger, I am very surprised that you were startled when the savings measures were put in place. It wasn't dramatized by me. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You were scared!]] Oh, that's it: Should I be scared? I can calm you down. I'm not scared. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's even worse if you're not scared!]] The fact that these measures were to be implemented was clear at the moment when it was certain that in Austria we would not have a federal government in such a timely manner that a federal estimate for the year 2000 could be drawn up. In view of the fact that the measure had been taken surprisingly, it is wrong. The nominee of the ÖVP as my partner knew of this, of course, three weeks before. He didn't agree to that – I have to say that for the sake of my honor. The responsibility for this measure lies also with the Minister of Finance. But scared was neither I nor anyone else who knew the numbers. I have felt it at least remarkable that, for example, your financial speaker, Dr. Stummvoll, has also stated publicly that he would have responded in my place, for which I am very grateful to you, Dr. Stupid, thank you. I would just like to make one more comment, Dr Puttinger, if you will allow me: My appreciation of the Minister of Education is obviously higher than yours, because I do not think that the Minister of Education will not heat the schools, but, of course, she will make her contribution elsewhere. I appreciate her far too much than that I would trust her to let the children freeze, Mr Puttinger. I do not think that would be in the interest of the Minister for Education and Education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to your remarks, Professor Van der Bellen: I have followed your contribution to the debate with great interest. You have read out all the reports that are known to everyone, and you have always said very beautifully: Answer: null! Answer: null! – Of course, that's not true. We have discussed the problems of various areas in the committees. But I was very excited – perhaps this is still in a later word report – and then, of course, also missing that if you are already blaming me "reaction: null", you are making proposals as an economic professor and not just bringing together figures from reports that are also known to the public. Further: They say that the distance to the other countries has increased. To this end: We are at the same time in the implementation of the 1999 budget with three very large countries of the European Union – approximately naturally, in the range from 0.1 to 0.2 percent – with France, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy and another, but small country. These countries, unlike us, already have budgets for the year 2000 and are reducing their deficits by the structural measures proposed in these budgets. We don't have that yet. It is quite clear, however, that such structural measures must also be implemented by means of the 2000 budget, so that we achieve our stability objective. I am also sure that the new Federal Government will do this. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Which structural measures will that be?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a current hour! You have to say what you're planning! They criticize the opposition that it has no proposals!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have not put forward any proposal for a structural measure!]] Of course, we will make proposals, but that would now exceed the 5 minutes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] You don't have to worry! I have already read your urgent request, which I have hoped for,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4501	The 5 minutes have already passed, Minister of State! – Minister! Thank you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Clamour in, comrades!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They're doing what the liberals say!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4558	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been two events in the last few days that have led to today's discussion and also to the urgent question in the afternoon: First of all, the ECOFIN Council meeting, in which Austria has more or less received a rupture because of its budgetary policy, and second, the decision to save Mr Bundesminister. Federal Minister! I think it belongs to what you have said with respect to Dr. Stummvoll, but put it correctly: Mr. Dr. Stummful has certainly given you the right to make 20 % savings. However, he added the following comment: After months of no response from the Ministry of Finance to the foreseeable budgetary development, nothing else was left. So there's a difference to see. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I'm also surprised that you've announced more or less today: There's a third savings package. I believe, Minister of State, that there should have been something more to listen to the admonitions of the ÖVP, the coalition partner. Dr. Schüssel has repeatedly demanded – starting a year and a half ago – that, in addition to the Tax Reform Commission, a task and expenditure reform commission be set up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He has also outlined the savings target. He said it would save around 10 to 15 billion schillings. I believe that this is exactly the amount that could help us to avoid this 20 percent reduction in discretionary expenditure. I would also like to say one thing: Especially in the implementation of this decree, it has been shown that discretion expenditure in large parts is no longer discretionary expenditure, i.e. that the availability of such expenditure is not at all available. Although referred to as discretionary expenditure, they cover the State's financial obligations to third parties, which are basically no longer reversible. This means that if we want to reform the budget, we have to talk at first and foremost about what it actually looks like with the given margin. I believe that it is not as easy as Mr Van der Bellen to do and just talk about structural deficits. Professor Van der Bellen! Yes, of course, there are structural deficits! But do you know what's behind that? – In addition, the federal budget needs to be knocked through from position to position and then checked which savings are actually possible where possible. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It is not us who have been ruling this country for years!]] It is too little for me to simply go out and say, "structural deficits", which is more or less the solution to the problem. No, this is certainly not the solution to the problem! It is about profound budgetary changes. That's what I'm talking about! And we will, when we are in charge, certainly bring them in.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4606	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4627	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Heindl accused the liberal in connection with the budget criticism of panic. That's an absolute nonsense! I firmly reject this accusation. On the contrary: It is our duty to ask, in deep concern, the citizens of Austria, how it really continues with the development of the budget in this country. Are the pensions still insured in the third millennium? What about job security? [[Abg. Parnigoni: The case of Rosenstingl shows what your true concerns are!]] Go, Parnigoni, please. This is a really stupid note on the verge of this debate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are concerned about our citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Or, Minister of Finance, you have repeatedly told us that the citizens will have more than 30 billion Shilling available next year. This may be fine vista, but you're not saying that you've initially taken away a lot of this amount from the citizens through several load packs. And now the citizens may also be grateful to you for returning a small part of what you have taken away from them before. Mr Finanzminister, you are in charge today of not taking any structural measures because there is no federal government. Mr. Finance Minister, it is not your first budget that you are negotiating, you have negotiated several budgets. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I know that, and they all fit!]] Where did the necessary structural measures remain? You didn't put them because you don't want or know structural changes. Their replies to the calls were defying: You have not even been able to mention three structural measures only by way of approach! You don't have a concept! You don't have a budget concept, you have a total budget chaos! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It is ambiguity that a budgetary policy can only be serious, sustainable, location-oriented, socially balanced and thus successful if the budget policy is credible and honest. And since, Mr Federal Minister, you have a huge deficit, a lack of credibility in your budget policy. And your budgetary policy has not only been nationally debated, but also internationally the signals are not to be overlooked, with all the negative effects on our federal budget. And I ask you, Minister of State: How credible and honest or – better said – how unbelievable and dishonest is your budgetary policy if, before the elections, German Chancellor Climate has declared that there will be no further savings package? He did not even limit himself to a certain period of time, but he said there would be no savings package in the next four years. Today we see that 20 billion schilling is missing, 30, 40, 50 billion schilling in the medium term. So there will be a savings package, yes, several savings packages will be essential. Yesterday, Professor Felderer made clear in the "ZiB 2": Further savings packages will be charged to Austrian citizens. And for that, Minister of State, you bear the responsibility! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They declared in September 1999 that it had succeeded in consolidating the Austrian government budget with an eye-to-face and solidarity. . Either something is wrong with your mind, or the solidarity of your ministerial colleagues is not particularly great. Federal Minister! They have also declared that the tax reform and the family reform will create a purchasing power boost. They give 30 billion schilling more, save 20 billion schilling at the same time, and therefore reduce purchasing power and demand in Austria. But the bird already has Federal Managing Director Rudas on 13. ==References====External links== According to an APA release, he said: The budget in Austria is consolidated. If the Socialists will continue to rule after election, there will be no savings package. – Minister of State! That's where the chickens laugh! Ladies and gentlemen! It will be necessary for us to finalize this budgetary policy of re-indebtedness and deficits. We liberals call for a budget policy that is based on sustainable expenditure savings, which aims at sound funding for the state budget. We call for a reduction in government tasks to the vital extent and extensive privatisations needed in order to reduce public debt. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, and with many other measures can it be possible to make the ship clear again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4698	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4720	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! In your speech today, you mentioned a few points to which I would like to address in detail. On the one hand, you have meant that it is necessary to have a meaningful and socially acceptable saving, and that you have to be careful with promises, and that measures are necessary. Your word, Mr Minister, in the ear of all those who are now affected by the announced savings measures! Because it seems that the concept of "stability" is dealt with by two measures. Firstly, the budget figures are about the various things that belong to a budget, about stability, Stability Pact et cetera. This is a point: Figures, budget. On the other hand, we are also talking about stability which I see at risk: the stability of civil society, of organisations that say they want to do something in this country. These have financial commitments from your ministry, but also from many other ministries. And it is precisely there that is to be shortened, in areas where citizens want to put in place measures that cannot be put by the state or on the part of the state. In this respect, stability cannot really be said if long-term planning is not possible for organisations, if they each receive a commitment for only one year and still have to see that part of this funding is no longer paid out at the end of the year. How is it otherwise possible that today, for example, the women's counsellors do not have a longer-term financing option – always only for one year – while family counsellors have their own funding law since 1974? And what about the women's counseling services? – There is an example where child care has been deleted by the Ministry of Family Affairs during an ongoing German course for foreign women in this year. These are things that do not allow long-term stability, long-term planning. How are those concerned to achieve this? - I can't do that! Another point concerns the promotion of art. "Chief Art", it was said, a white book was prepared. For two years artists have worked and discussed this – it came out that 1.8 billion schilling should be made available for it. When it comes to the proposed reductions, not half of this amount will remain. Is that stability, can you plan so long-term? – I can't do that, Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A third area, which has also been given a lot of media attention in recent days and weeks, is our responsibility to those regions of the world – Africa, Asia, Latin America – in which our development aid organisations operate, where we have long-term contracts with partner organisations, and that is now the sum of 100 million schillings in budget overrun. If this adds to the cuts announced for the next year, there is only half of the scarce one billion schilling available in recent years. – So you can't plan stable and long-term. I can't! In this context, I would like to draw your attention to a motion for a resolution – and I hope that it will also find your agreement – which we will bring in in the afternoon during the debate on the urgent question. Mr. Minister of Finance! Stability has something to do with reliability, stability has to do with how far you can trust and trust the people you work with. Stability has something to do with long-term planning. If one starts to cut down where it comes to those who do not have lobbys, who do not have long-term contracts with long-term planning, such as the construction industry, if one only removes where it hits the weakest, then this cannot be in the sense of stability and not in the sense of a stable democracy which we have in this country and also want to maintain and expand. In terms of discretion expenditure, one can easily cut down, but I think that one has to look at where in this area really is going, but not at the weakest. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That means stability! That is why I would ask you to look at ourselves once again in the sense of our stable democracy, where it really makes sense to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4789	I now declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4810	I refer to the written communication distributed in accordance with paragraph 23(4) of the Rules of Procedure in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5055	Deputies Mag. Trattner and comrades have asked for the written question of Mr Mag, which was put to the agenda for today's sitting, to be put before the entry into the agenda. Trattner and comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning the Cassas. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this question will be called on for discussion at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5079	I would also like to say that Mrs Petrovic has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the application 15/A concerning a Federal Animal Protection Act be subject to a period of time until 24. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member In this context, there is the request made by five Members pursuant to § 43 of the GOG to hold a debate on this request for a deadline. In view of the urgent need to deal with a written question for today's sitting, the brief debate will be held following the urgent request. Moreover, I can tell Mrs Dr. Petrovic has requested that the Health Committee report on the application 5/A (E) on the implementation of the requirements of the genetic engineering people's desire be completed for a period of 24 years. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative There is no need for debate here, so this request will be put to the vote without debate after the end of the negotiations of this National Council meeting. Finally, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has requested that the Equal Treatment Committee report on Amendment 6/A (E) on the implementation of the women's volks request also be limited to 24. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations Again, there is no desire for a debate, and it is here that we will vote without debate after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, following the previous deadline request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5121	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up the debate on points 6 and 7 and points 10 to 13 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5146	I will now go into the agenda and announce that consensus has been reached in the presidential session on the duration of the debates: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" is proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 136 minutes, liberals and ÖVP per 128 minutes as well as green 88 minutes. The National Council has to decide on this. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then it is decided and determined by common accord. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (4 and 4 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (Sozialrechts-Amending Act 1999 – SRÄG 1999) (8 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5185	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5209	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like first of all, before we enter into the debate on the Social Rights Amendment Act 1999, which Mrs Federal Minister for Social Affairs wants good health and good improvement, and I hope that she will soon be fully recovered from her serious illness. Ladies and gentlemen! The present act of law is only a follow-up to the decisions already taken on 7 July. In addition to the 0.6% pension adjustment proposed by the Advisory Council for Pension Adjustments, as well as the amendment to the proposal of this Advisory Council, it is also necessary to make a legal amendment to the proposed base amounts. If one considers the pension adjustment and the history of the pension adjustment from a liberal point of view, two things must be foreseen in the present legislative text: A few years ago, when we, as a liberal pensioner, asked here in Parliament to provide for the lowest and lowest income from pensions corresponding increases in base amounts and not only in percentages, these proposals were simply rejected by the hand. If it is now clear that the corresponding text of the law, with a base amount of 200 s, provides for only a small, but nevertheless for an area of still lower incomes an adjustment is clearly more than 0.6 percent, I believe, it can be pointed out here with pride from a liberal point of view that our originally rejected proposals have now become a majority in this House. However, I also believe that, from a liberal point of view, it is nevertheless critical that it should not be seen that the lowest income has been significantly below this base amount of 200 S and that, contrary to what was to be read in the Austrian media – each pensioner receives more than 200 S – the further valorization steps over 9 700 S to 22 500 S pension income with degressive to 135 S are also well below what has been said in the newspapers. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that if we pursue the debate on the adjustment of pensions, the newspapers and the public relationship that has been operated by them, the current provisional Federal Government is obviously re-entering the steps of the previous Federal Government. I don't think you've learned anything from the past. It promises to increase media-actively through the newspapers, which will actually only take place in a narrow section. In addition, lower increases have been foreseen in other sub-areas – both for the lowest incomes and for incomes over 9,700 to 22,500 S. I mean, this path is one of those on the 3rd. ==References== [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should tell the people the truth, even if the results of the negotiations are announced, because I think the truth is quite reasonable to voters – and pensioners and pensioners belong to it. Secondly, I would also like to deal with the accusation that the representative of the Austrian People's Party, who I think will speak, has made in the committee that what the liberals have called for more than 1.1 percent on average for all pensioners, would not be eligible for funding. I assume that Mr. University Professor, Dr. Bruckmann, has meant what we have actually wanted and what we have brought into the committee, and not what has been distorted in media coverage. I believe that if we consider what we have actually demanded more than the Federal Government has now granted, namely about 1.1 billion schilling – I am saying "about" because, as an opposition party, we are unfortunately unable to make the exact social security principles available to us with the last data as compared to the Federal Government, and therefore we can only carry out inaccurate calculations which, unfortunately, may have some 100 to 200 million schilling in this area – this must lead to a discussion that we will continue this afternoon on the urgent request. Is it fair that in this Parliament those who are called in the opposition from the Constitution for the control of the Federal Government must have another, more inefficient, obsolete data to calculate their proposals than the Austrian Federal Government and its calculator? – I believe, ladies and gentlemen, if we take democracy seriously, the exchange of data between all parties here in the House would not only have to be done correctly, but this data would have to be available at the same time. Then, too, what is often accused of the opposition parties here, that some calculation would be inconvenient, can no longer occur. Unfortunately, we are still in the situation today that we have data of the year 1998 and provisional data by June 1999 and do not have the final data of September and November this year to complete our calculations. I also mean, ladies and gentlemen, that 1.1 billion Schilling – which is a prom of the total budget – cannot be considered to be unfinancing if you estimate the federal share of the next few years, about 1 to 1.2 percent of the federal share of pensions. I'm sure savings are in order. It is certainly also recommended to take linear action when setting up the savings pen. It is certainly also important to consider the young generation who will have to pay future pension benefits as in the work process in accordance with the principle of solidarity and according to the generation contract. But it is also certainly the fault that 1.1 billion schilling is no longer eligible for the pensioners to see in the budget policy of the current Minister of Finance Edlinger in recent years. I should like to remind you that in January of this year the pre-announced blue letter from Brussels reached this Federal Government and in March it was also clear and clear to the newspapers about the budget policy data – I refer to the corresponding reports, for example, in the "standard" of January and March of this year – that the Federal Government has not taken care to ensure the demographic development in the social field. – Clearly and clearly to be read, clearly and clearly published in the appropriate form. Since then, there has still been a fully functioning federal government for six months to counter it, and now we have a provisional federal government which could also counter this area. That is why, Mr Bruckmann, we do not allow the liberals to be able to finance these 1.1 billion more, but you, Mr Bruckmann, and your representatives in the Federal Government will have to make the question clear: Why is a promill in this budget no longer eligible for funding? Why is a promill no longer eligible to finance the poorest in this state – even there are the figures clear and clear on the table; these are women, these are former single earners, these are business-driven pensioners and these are all those who have to live in the rural area with split pensions? Why are the additional demands we have made for these groups - from the disabled area in which the valorization of the care allowance has been suspended for four years - not available to me at all? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that what is going on in this area in the field of pension adjustment is better than what we originally proposed, that it should be done for the first time in important areas, namely, where the amount of the base is concerned, that it is not as socially balanced as it should be, and as we have wanted it to be, to the extent possible. I would also like to say clearly and clearly that some of the parameters mentioned in the opinion have unfortunately worsened significantly in recent months to the disfavors of pensioners. In this context, I should just like to mention the increase in fuel oil, and I should like to mention the increase in inflation, because 0.6 percent have been adopted as the basis for the opinion, which is currently 0.8 percent, i.e. an increasing trend. That is why we are bringing forward today the same motion for a resolution which we have already tabled in committee and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Red and Black Government, have already rejected. But maybe there's a rethinking process here in plenary. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! A re-adjustment in this area also seems to be useful, correct and consistent, because a corresponding review period has been granted in Agenda item 4 of today's meeting on our own pensions and the respective adjustments for politicians by March 2000. That is why what applies to us should also apply to pensioners. We liberals acknowledge the present draft law that it contains some points that go in the right direction, but would like to note that it does not comply with the fundamental intensification of our liberal ideas for more social justice. That is why we will, in total, reject the present text of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5318	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I It is stated in the proposal "... for 1999 and/or 2000...". – I think that's just been read out. The next speaker is Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer. Voluntary time limit: also 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5348	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was of course not officially known long before the recommendation of the Advisory Council for Pension Adjustments and Pension Adjustments was officially announced; there were already enormous excitements and discussions, and in some cases this unrest was also quite consciously startled. It followed the usual questioning of the individual media, and from the outset, from a social democratic point of view, the confession that smaller pensions would be increased more strongly. As a result, with the large pensioners' organizations, a pension increase has been prepared, using the legal scope, which I believe can be seen. Although one has granted one-off payments at lower incomes in recent years, one has always had to find that there have been injustices due to rigid borders. This time, with the extra-tourual compensation rate increase, with the planned grinding arrangements and also by creating links with the tax reform 2000, I believe that the greatest possible justice has been achieved. The total cost is 3.21 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a great deal of understanding for those who have already been able to inform us enough. And even smaller and very critical pensioners organisations have this very well done, especially since the older generation also knows from experience that one has to focus on the budget. The elderly also have sufficient comparisons. I would also like to stress the orientation of the total pension income. 75 percent of pensioners thus receive more than 1 percent, 90 percent of pensioners receive more than 0.6 percent of the increase. I would like to highlight in this regard the demands of the liberals. As we are used to, there were different variants every day. Once the speech was from 800 to 1000 S – the budget would have been taxed by 23 to 29 billion schilling – then one went back to 500 S – load still 14.5 billion – after which one suddenly spoke of 250 to 300 S – load: 7.25 to 8.7 billion – and lastly in the main committee, already very moderate, 1 percent, but at least 300 S was required. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is simply unfinancing! That is why any funding proposal has been missing. I think it only significant that this comes from this political corner. Our entire pension system is always being questioned there because the federal contribution is not to be financed. And now you have to put on a federal contribution of 59 billion Schilling, including compensation allowances of around 70 billion, without further delay 29 billion Schilling. – So I don’t know what ideas you have for this! There is no reason to question our proven payment system. And the autumn discussion was absolutely essential in my opinion, because further reform steps have never been questioned by us. We decided in 1997 a far-reaching reform, which will only take place between the years 2000 and 2003 and beyond. Of course, it is important not to put your hands in the lap and wait until reality overtakes us. At least once, however, it is necessary to monitor how these measures take place in order to make further reforms based on them. Nor will it succeed to divide boys and older people, because today's pensioners are interested in having their children and grandchildren receive a pension once. That is why they understand all these measures. So, as soon as the first steps of reform have taken, we will be in a situation where those young people who are already in work today, but who are currently in a bit uncertain, will realize that their protection of trust is intact. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the pension increase. We recognise, of course, that the implementation of this political will in the individual pension insurance institutions brings much more work and great administrative difficulties. Especially at this end of the year it is all the more difficult because of the computer changes and the horror scenario that is drawn everywhere. However, I am confident that the staff of pension insurance institutions will face this challenge. I am also confident that all of this will come into play and that the way to greater social justice can be continued in future pension adjustments. We Socialists welcome the solution to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5412	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5434	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree, of course, on the part of the Green Group, with the best wishes for the recovery of the Minister of State Hostasch. However, it is a good thing that you, Mrs Prammer, are present, because in my speech I do not just want to limit myself to the increase in pensions. We Greens have tabled to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment a proposal to increase the amount of money available in a form and an amount which is socially fair, but also, secondly, that debate which you, Mr President, are going to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few months ago. Mr Bartenstein! Money to increase also the karenz money is available, and it is also already distributed – "Care money for all", "Care money for all those who need it"! – but when it comes to increasing the Carenz money from 5 500 S to 6 000 S, it says: We cannot now decide on this in the Committee on Budgets because, first, the Minister of Finance needs money – which is not right, because it is well protected against Mr Finanzminister's attacks in the Family Tax Adjustment Fund – and secondly, we do not know when and whether we can increase the Carenz money to 6 000 S, because before and we, the government parties, want to see whether we are funding the "carnation money for all" or the "caring money for all those who need it". The liberals continue one step further and say: In principle no increase, first the children's check needs to be here, then perhaps we can think of raising! Ladies and gentlemen! I can still remember a campaign of election, in which you were mocked by the increase of the karenz money: Of course, it must come to be completely unfair that this should not be increased! – But now that the matter has been negotiated in the Committee, your hands have fallen down: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Those were your arguments. For example, we are now facing a rather sad situation for the women concerned, which increases by 0.6 percent in the case of pension funds, as in the case of pensions. For pensioners, however, this does not mean, as with pensioners with a pension of 6 000 S, an increase by – also milky – 90 S, but by only 33 S per month. This is the result of your government policy, your inability to act in good time on this matter, and to ensure the necessary and promised increase to 6 000 S as a minimum to the karenz money recipients. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You should be ashamed if this is left out of the election promises! Step in front of those voters you have elected for the family policy of the ÖVP or SPÖ, and explain this to them! Approximately: Unfortunately, it is not possible now, we have overlooked that, no time, we had to probe or what else I know, at least no time and no interest in actually doing something here. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Your perceptiveness is very limited!]] That would have been a very simple thing, Mrs Mertel, it would have been quite easy to raise the carnation money to 6 000 s. A comment, ladies and gentlemen, on pensions – I have already assembled this in committee, but I have not received an answer to it – is that: What can be the reason for this for the first time, although not in the form we want, being carried out this year, of which we have always said in recent years that it was not possible to increase pensions by absolute amounts? The second thing I've assembled in the committee was: Why do the retired farmers with 6 000 S pensions only look at an increase of 90 s, while 32 000 S-pensions are raised by at least 200 s? Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Frauen Minister! That's also your business, and that's why I'm not unhappy that you're sitting on the government bank. This increase, as much as you might talk about it, does not take into account the pensioners, does not take care of caregivers, is not a contribution that is actually appropriate to avoid the risk of poverty and therefore no contribution that would really deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5491	Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5513	Mr President. High house! It is not without emotion that, after five years of absence, I am now allowed to speak from this point again, so today almost to my second virgin speech. I fail to have a deep-seated analysis of whether there may be a difference between politics and reality, that there can apparently be a second virginity in politics. [[Demonstratative condolences of Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Fischl.]] I have already failed to do this because I would have to call myself the "old virgin" in this case as the oldest of the Members. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a sense, however, my present appearance goes into Parliament's history: This is the first time that an explicitly nominated Member of the High House has been taken in by an explicit senior body. Therefore, in addition to the actual item on the agenda, I would like to ask for a few basic comments. Our generation is witness to the greatest demographic change in all human history. At all times and in all cultures, a first generation, the children, and a second generation, namely the working adults, stood a very narrow layer of old people who have been separated from working life and who have become almost completely in need of care. This age group still exists, only it has become a fourth age from a third. The turning innovation we are experiencing in our generation is that between the second and the fourth generation – now and now – a new third age level has been created, an ever-increasing layer of fellow citizens, who have already been separated from active working life, but who are still alive with both legs and are also providing important social services, because this layer is often the care or at least care of grandchildren on the one hand and members of the fourth generation on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a third of the voters are over 60 years old! And this share will undoubtedly continue to increase over the next few years. Now there are two ways in which traditional political parties can react to this development in a Western democracy. One way is to ignore them. This must lead sooner or later to the emergence of "gruder" parties and thus to a polarization "old" against "young", which must cause the greatest social tensions. The other way – and to this I recognize myself with full conviction and with all my heart – is to grant this new class of society also in active politics within the existing parties, and not only as a electorate, appropriate means of participation and thus to internalize intergenerative cooperation. The Austrian Seniors' Federation, for which I stand here, acknowledges this view. For us, senior policy is not only part of social policy, but also part of family policy. According to our firm conviction, the social challenges of today and tomorrow can only be solved in the spirit of the generations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But this means not only a policy for the seniors of today, but also a policy for the seniors of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. And that is what I am going to get directly to the content of the item on the agenda. Our Austrian pension insurance system is known to be based on the payment procedure, i.e. any schilling that a pensioner receives at the same time must be paid by an asset, either through contributions or indirectly from general means of taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, who have previously personally apostrophed me – I do not know if he is present – have therefore also been personally answered. He is told that this increase costs 1.1 percent of the pension volume, and if someone wants to play Nikolo or tell him that that is too little, then he should know that the Nikolo gift bag does not fall from heaven but needs to be filled by the active population. Therefore, in the annual pension adjustment, not only can we find a maximum for the pensioners of today, but we can find a measure that does not burden the assets of today – and these are the pensioners of tomorrow – on a fee. This is precisely what can be said about the adjustment that is now under discussion, especially in view of the fact that this adjustment coincides with the in-force pace of the tax reform, so that a significant improvement for all pensioners is associated with it, because only the tax reform will increase the purchasing power of pensioners, in addition to the increase of 3.2 billion schilling by direct pension adjustment, by four and a half billion schilling! However, this conflict required a rather complicated sounding system, whose aim is to ensure social balance between pensioners of lower, medium and higher pensions. Ladies and gentlemen! The speaking time available to me has practically expired, but let me take a look at the future. 30 years ago, the average pension period for men was less than five years, and for women 13 years. Today, for men from five years to 16 years of age, women have risen from 13 to 24 years of age – not only because of the extremely pleasing increase in life expectancy, but also – and this is far less gratifying – because the retirement age has steadily decreased in these 30 years. It is obvious that this development cannot be continued as desired! Thus, regardless of how the next Federal Government will be composed, we will have to have the courage to think further about a long-term guarantee of pensions, about a reform that has to go primarily in that direction, that the de facto pension age will be raised by today's less than 58 years in the direction of those values which were still quite common in Austria not too long ago, a time when the entire life expectancy was a much lower one. High house! The earlier determined steps will be taken in this direction, the safer not only the pensions of today, but also those of tomorrow and the day after. The Austrian Seniors' Federation acknowledges this need to ensure the pensions of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow – in the sense of our self-elected intergenerative sense of responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5604	Mrs Prammer, the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, spoke in the constitutional representation of the woman in need. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5625	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am convinced that if today's legal framework for the increase in pensions for the coming year is decided, these measures will bring forward a truly clear socially just push. And I believe that pensioners will feel and understand a lot of this fairness, solidarity and justice. Ladies and gentlemen! The Advisory Council on Pensions and Pension Adjustment met at its meeting on 28 February. Recommendation for October 1999 – I will put this together again once more – the adjustment factor for the year 2000 by 1,004, i.e. by fixing 0.4 percent. Some speakers have already pointed out that, as part of the further negotiations of the Federal Government, the representatives of the Council of Seniors discussed and prepared the 2000 pension adjustment, which is now in place. In addition to the idea of social compensation, the pension adjustment is based on the idea of a certain link to tax reform 2000. In increasing pension payments, special attention has been paid to those groups of persons who do not need to pay taxes due to low income and therefore cannot benefit directly from the tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! In detail, the pension adjustment for the year 2000 is as follows. The inflation rate for 1999 is expected to be 0.6 percent, so the adjustment factor for the year 2000 is set at 1.006, i.e. 0.6%. This procedure was already in place in the main committee of the House on 7 November. Adopted by a majority on 1 December. In addition, additional payments are to be received to the following extent by the members of lower pensions. On the one hand, the compensatory allowance rates are to be applied with effect from 1 January 1990. This is the first time that we have seen a change in the number of years. In the future, the couple's guide rate is 11 859 S, the guide rate for individuals is 8 312 S. This corresponds to an increase of around 2.46 per cent, and is therefore far above the 0.6 per cent rule of the general adjustment factor from the decision by the main committee. On the other hand, the total pension income, which is the sum of all pension incomes, is also intended to be effective from 1 January. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I would like to make a few comments – and this was discussed in advance in the Committee – that the total pension income of up to 7 000 S will increase by around 1.5 percent. A few comments have to be made on this group. For the first time, it has been demonstrated that the majority of this group, which accounts for around 80 per cent, contains intergovernmental partial benefits. In addition, one more detail: 50 percent of the intergovernmental benefits are below 1 416 S per month because the main pension benefit is obtained from another country. It was therefore particularly important in this group to apply a uniform percentage of pension and not a fixed amount. If people with low pension incomes live exclusively from this income at both individual and household level, the proven instrument of the need-based minimum guarantee – namely the compensation allowance – must be applied. Therefore, the guidelines of this compensation allowance have been increased by 2.46 percent. For total pension income of more than 7 000 S to 8 000 S, the pension increases by a percentage of between 1.5 and 2.5 percent, for total pension income of over 8 000 S with the base amount of 200 S, and for total pension income of more than 8 750 S to including 10 400 S, the pension increases by less than 200 S, but by at least 135 S. Total pension income of 10 400 S is to be increased by a base amount of 135 S, i.e. an increase of 0.6 percent, but at least 135 S. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on the contributions to the debate. Mr President, you have criticized the fact that data exchange with Parliament would not have worked. I would like to say right at this point that all clubs have received all the information at the same time, directly and from first hand. The Members here in the House were, of course, the first to be faced with the detailed calculations. Here the detailed calculations have been and will be presented, because it is in this House that the decisions and decisions are taken. In view of the reference made by the Head of Parliament to inflation rates, I would like to remind you once again that the increase in the pension amounted to 1.5 percent in 1999 and 1.6% in the case of the one-time payment. If we consider this, then we must note that we have achieved a very fair and fair measure for the 2000 pension adjustment, especially in terms of compensation and the rate of inflation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Oellinger! [[Abg. Oil: Yes?]] You are certainly right if you find that the state has the best possible means to reduce and eliminate the risk of poverty. I would like to make a very encouraging statement at this point, although it does not belong directly to pensions or to the increase in pensions. The Wifo has prepared a study on the 1998 family support measures, which shows that these measures guarantee a clear trend towards the redistribution of small incomes. For example, the Wifo has calculated that the 1998 family support measures have allowed more than 100 000 children – which is calculated in this way – to escape the risk of poverty. For them, the risk of poverty could be reduced. I think that is also something that can be seen clearly and clearly from the point of view of families and children. One thing, of course, I give you the right, has not succeeded, even with this family promotion package: The single-parent budget has benefited least from this package. For this reason, it is particularly important to me – now as the Minister for Women – that we strive for this group of persons. However, it will certainly not be enough to hold a karenz money debate, because I am convinced that just single teachers are those who are all interested in returning to work as soon as possible. This requires appropriate framework conditions. These include primarily childcare services, as well as the possibility of more flexible, better-designable working hours and much more. We have a lot of debates about this. I know what responsibility we have to bear, also in the sense of what before the 3. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! With the process of increasing pensions, we can ensure that 75 per cent of pensioners receive an increase of more than 1 per cent or that 90 per cent of pensioners increase their pension by more than 0.6 per cent. And for the sake of completeness, it is also pointed out that the additional burden of the Federal Budget will be 3,21 billion Schilling by means of the 2000 pension adjustment. I believe that this pension adjustment is fair, socially fair and based on the idea of solidarity, that the pensioners are from 1st century onwards. In January 2000, these fair, socially just measures were recognised and, accordingly, considered to be justified in society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5671	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5695	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I have now listened attentively to you. You said to the honourable Member's speech that he criticised that we did not receive all the opinions or documents on pensions. They also found that these documents have been sent to us. I have to tell you the following: Although we have received the opinion of the Board on Pensions, we have not received the data on multiple-pensions and pensions received by Austrians from abroad. In principle, we have not received any documents for this purpose. – I just want to say that very briefly. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think that the pensioners today do not know how much they will actually receive a pension, because it has actually happened through the media that there will be an increase of 0.6 percent. This has led to a great uproar – Mr Feurstein, we know that – because after the wage negotiations, the lowest increases in wages – those in trade – amounted to 1.75%. That was a considerable difference! It has then been said that there will also be an increase in the amount of a base. Of course, I support this because it has always been our opinion that the low pensions have to be fattened with base amounts. But now it's over that each pensioner will receive 200 s in addition. That's not the way it is. In fact, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have now explained in detail that pensions of up to 7 000 S are calculated by 1.5 percent – de facto with the base amount and the 0.6 percent. Pensions between 7 000 S and 8 000 S are linearly increased by 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent, and pensions from over 8 000 S to 9 750 S increase by 200 S and pensions from over 9 750 S to 10 400 S, in turn linearly graduated, to increases from 200 S to 135 S. Pensions that are above them are virtually increased by 0.6 percent or 135 S. This means that all pensions below 22 500 S are raised by slightly more than 0.6 percent. As I have already mentioned, I find the increase in the base amount quite fine. It is a step in the right direction, which has always been a liberal requirement. In our opinion, it is a little too small, Mrs Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen. Mr Haupt has already explained this: It's basically a drop on the hot stone. It is simply not enough, given the price increases in fuel oil, diesel or petrol, which the pensioners need as much as everyone else. Inflation is not properly covered. For example, I am incomprehensible that lower incomes are now being lowered, as I have just explained on the basis of pensions below 7 000 s and those above. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have already shown in the Committee that 75 percent of pensioners now receive a one-percent increase in pensions. I cannot share your joy, because, as I have just mentioned, I do not think that smaller and medium-sized pensions have been taken into account to that extent I would have wished. It is also necessary to take into account the following: If a tax reform takes place, it will not affect low incomes and pensions. A person with a small pension will not have an advantage at all, even if that is still lost. The situation is anything but gratifying. Of course, the 0.6 percent adjustment factor has an impact not only on pensions, but also on the pension fund – that has already been mentioned by Mr Öllinger – on unemployment benefit and emergency aid. This means that, because of the two savings packages, which have been frozen to 5 565 S since 1996, the amount of karenz money is only increased by Micky 33 S per month – that is a little too little, ladies and gentlemen – because it is linked to the pension increase. I would have liked the karenz money to be significantly increased. The Minister for Family Affairs has also announced this. – I alone lack faith! I myself would, of course, prefer a solution with a children's check, so that all Austrian mothers would receive this child's check as a substitute for the karenz money. That would be much better for me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What I don't understand is that the SPÖ and the ÖVP have meant in the Committee, they see the possibility of an increase in the pension money only in the context of the 2000 budget. I do not see this as the family compensation fund has a surplus, and the karenz money is mostly fed there. There the money would be available, and we could decide on an increase without a doubt. Just a few words about the care allowance: For the care allowance which the needy person receives after the degree of disability, there is not even such a slight increase for the time being. If something were to be changed in this respect, it would of course be necessary to make its own legislation. However, such a one is far and wide not in sight. I believe that in this respect too, we should act in the future. Mr. Dr. Feurstein, perhaps to express You're still on the question of the care allowance! Because there are always improvements that one comes with time, for example, that it is necessary to do something to the caregivers and perhaps to the under-threes. We know several cases where it would be necessary to make a change.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5761	Mrs Pittermann spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5782	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say briefly that one has complained that the figures would not all be available at the same time. This reference material can be found in the statistical manual of the main association of social security institutions. If the Members themselves are unable to take care of this, then all clubs will have excellent staff at their disposal, capable of providing their clubs and their representatives with this numbering material at all times. If you pass these requests on to your own club staff, you will be able to have all these numbers in the future. Because it may already be that it is a bit annoying for us to search through the numbers. But we certainly get this prepared "righteous to the mouth." By the way, I would just like to say that we are very happy about living in a country and in a time when older people have a secure existence. Previous social reports show that pensioners are mostly not at risk of poverty. The economy knows about the purchasing power of pensioners, it focuses advertising and offer on this good clientele. I am proud that in the Second Republic, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, we have created a social system that largely makes people who are no longer in employment independent of alms, their families or charitative organizations and, instead, allows them to participate in the social offers. A generation contract with payment procedures best ensures the value-resistance of pensions. Private pension funds with capital cover procedures can never provide this security. Deeply uncertain about the pension insurance we have in the Vienna Chamber of Physicians – dear Erwin, even if you are reading! – which, of my generation, currently requires the savings of 3,367 200 S for most of us and a work performance regardless of gender, i.e. for men and women, up to 65. Life-year demands – only then has one reached a monthly pension of 12 200 s – I also estimate that our social security system, which does not require such a long duration of work or such high deposits that make this savings possible. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger]] Since 1985, the conditions for young doctors in this pension system have deteriorated massively every year. Those who, like me, experience the brutality of some private insurance in dealing with the private insured can have no confidence in these institutions, who only try to maximize their own profits in a customer-unfriendly way, brutally disregard the intimacy of their clients, and repeatedly try to force a break in the duty of silence of the doctors. Whoever experiences these unsavory facts so close to me, so often faces them, appreciates our good, social and secure pension system all the more. Although the Advisory Board on Pensions and Pension Adjustment proposed an adjustment factor of 1.004, it was agreed in talks with pensioners on the adjustment of 1.006. At lower pensions, base amounts were introduced to give the poor more of what I think is socially balanced. There are, of course, voices that believe that insurance should remain the same, because those with higher pension benefits have paid longer and higher contributions, but the legislator must support the weakest. This complicated system has succeeded. My advertising drop is the massive burden on colleagues in social security, who are responsible for the calculation and payment of pensions. I would like to thank you, because now that the private hustle and bustle of holidays is overtaking us all, they must in many overtime allow us to implement today's decision. Thanks to the eternal demand for a reduction in the management of social security, staff reserves are extremely low, as can be seen in comparison of the administrative costs between social security and private insurance. In order to receive pensions for all in the future, we need full employment with adequately paid workers. The cry for a reduction in additional wage costs without any value added tax or other social security income is – not only is it intended to maximize profits from corporations and entrepreneurs and to destroy the social fabric – without responsibility, especially if you have wishes with rising expenditure, such as increased pensions, pension funds for all income reduced by tax and lower social security contributions. How much mathematical knowledge, how much political and economic competence do those who demand all of this have? The social competence of politics brings new challenges that we must face. If we pay attention to the global survey presented in recent days – which is of the highest priority for people – and learn that the most urgent wishes of the respondents go towards health, family, work and peace, we know in which areas we are required. Unfortunately, in the value of the topics, we often go beyond the wishes of people. People are more important to health than to the military, where expenditure is mainly used by the arms industry which has no interest in peace. If all politicians are more concerned about the well-being of the population than the profits of some less if they are solidarian with the elderly, do not push them out of the work process early and are fair to the boys, give them the same opportunities and opportunities that we had if we identify with the weak and solidarity and not exclusively with the successful ones, then the generation contract will continue to exist and our social system will continue to be among the world's best in the future. To this end, it is essential to form, as quickly as possible, an actionable government as possible, a government with the largest common denominator, and not that conditions be set and submission are expected. Poker should remain a forbidden gambling, with political and political awareness of responsibility has nothing to do with it. The importance of rapid government education was also seen in the debate on karenz money. Changes in this area can only be decided if a new budget is also decided – anything else would not be responsible. I too wish myself, of course, a higher pension for women. From the foundation of our movement, we Socialists have represented the principles of democracy and defended it using freedom and life. Many of us have lost their lives, especially in the terrible 11 years until 1945, in their struggle for parliamentary democracy, and even more political victims have lost their material existence and freedom. In the next century and millennium, we are ready to take over the electoral mandate according to government responsibility and to further improve our social system. Personally, I would like to wish you all the best, health and all of us the opportunity to address the challenges and problems that we face. In this sense: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5867	Next item is the report by Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5889	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A few minutes ago, we heard of the great budget needs of Mr Edlinger, the Minister of Finance, in which he is located. I would recommend him: If he had to live as the pensioners in our country, then we wouldn't have had budget needs and could finally give pensioners decent increases. You told us a few months ago that you had a big throw with the pension reform. A few months ago it was suggested that pensions should be insured for the next few years, and all the members of the government have received this with enthusiasm. But you, Mr Feurstein, would have to recognize that you are not even able to give pensioners humane increases, which paid off the inflation rate. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: A big throw!]] Hardly any of these 0.6 percent were negotiated, the fuel oil price alone rose by 30 percent. This is your form of politics. That's lying, that's dishonest. That is why my colleague, Mr President, has also tabled a request on this subject today: If there are blatant gains – this is because of this budgetary policy, which is made by you and your socialist partner – we demand that renegotiated or re-adjusted. The indifference is also evident from the fact that you first welcomed the increase of 3.3 percent for political mandates by the President of the Court of Auditors and his team, but then, under the pressure of the public, you saw injustice. And now tell the general population that this measure is good and very successful. Mrs Prammer! I have to tell you, I don't understand you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They want to sell something as good, sell something as success, which has only been achieved after wild protests by pensioners. You originally only wanted to pay 0.4 percent from the budget bag because you are no longer able because you can no longer finance. I also do not understand that the Social Democratic Members who have repeatedly stressed that the public budget would be a third of the budget for pensions have been exhausted. Where are these voices? – Now we are at 23 percent, and it needs to be further reduced because you are unable to save in the right place. They are no longer able to balance the existing increases properly. They have not in any way taken into account the increasing life expectancy already mentioned by colleagues Bruckmann. They have not taken into account the increases in claims. A majority of pensioners – i.e. 75 percent – now receive less than 7 000 S. Therefore, I wonder what happens to the next generation, which has monetaryly much higher demands, in which even the 0.6 percent make up a higher amount. They have also not taken into account the number of pensioners rising rapidly. All the experts tell you that with your system of the past you will not be able to secure the pensions in the future. Why don't you be so honest and say that! Allow creativity and new ways, and do not shut down applications and proposals of the oppositional parties regarding the three-pillar model! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For years you have needed – you are so solidified in your systems – to find at least once an approach on the base amount. This too has been rejected by you for years and demanded by us for years. Today it was first implemented into approaches. Why does it always take so long? ==References====External links== In October, the old system was given a clear exit. But you still stick to it, although you say out here every time: Unfortunately, we are no longer in a position to do so. Please be satisfied with what we can give you! I'll tell you: If you were to make a proper, reasonable budgetary policy, it would also be possible for anyone who is in receipt of income in Austria to take care of their own. But in your form of budgetary policy, in your form of the high burden, in this tax rate, which is almost 50 percent, no worker, no employee, nor any self-employed person who has to make a hard time making their money is monetaryly able to take care of himself. That is why it is necessary to think about it at last – I expect it from you too – because otherwise everything you do will ultimately result in you getting together again for a period of time. But you know very well that you have failed with this form of politics – but you can't allow a new one because it's not your idea. This is not responsible to the people who have done good work in this Republic for decades. The fact that more than 0.6 percent is done for hours is a shame to the Republic in the 20th century. ==References== But they have the responsibility to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5938	Mr Donabauer has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5960	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are happy to bear responsibility because we have made a good policy, and I can prove it to you now. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why have you been selected?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] If we have talked about the budget today in the current hour, we have therefore discussed it because we take the matter seriously and concern ourselves with those areas that concern this state and the lives of people, and take the related issues very seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the morning budget discussion you also noticed that there has been a reference to the growing areas, for example the social and pension sectors. The pension sector has always been a very emotional topic, that is no question at all. The concern about how work continues after work has always been one of the basic concerns of people. If you read the report of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, you will notice that it is very clear that the people – this is the success of politics in this country – no longer have income concerns after working life, but that it is especially the young families who suffer from it. That means that we need to improve, and that will be done. That is what my party stands for, and for that we will also make ourselves very strong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Despite the high quality of our pension scheme, there are still a number of open questions. Young People Ask: How credible is the system? Will there be a pension for us in the future? Will the Generational Treaty hold? How reasonable are additional burdens on the labour force? – All of this, I believe, is questions that we need to address which allow a reasonable relationship between one and the other. They should also deal with the actual development, namely that we have to note that since 1970 the duration of working life has fallen from 44.4 to 37.2 years. They should also deal with the fact that life expectancy is God's thanks to the increase of three years every ten years since 1970. This has its impact, of course also in pension law. That is why we, this government that always criticizes you, have discussed the pension reform and decided to do so. We have referred to all these developments. We have made the harmonisation of the systems a matter of content and, of course, we have also referred to sustainable financialability. Maybe interested. The development of pensions in recent years, therefore some figures on this: In 1995, we had a pension of 230 billion from the legal social security system for 1.8 million citizens, and in 1997 there were already 250 billion for 1.9 million people, and in 1999 there were 1 950 000 citizens – you see how much this figure is rising – to cover 270 billion schilling. This 2000 pension adjustment, which you have to see very clearly, is therefore an intelligent solution for me, because it has a system-related element and a social element, namely the base adjustment. Mr Gaugg! If you say here from the speaker's desk that the pedestal adjustment is your invention, I can tell you – you were not in Parliament at the time – that: The pedestal adjustment was the work and work of Vice Chancellor Riegler together with Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun and our then and today social spokesperson Feurstein. These were the ideas for the pedestal adjustment and not you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also tell you that this model is extremely intelligent and balanced this year: We have a base of 2.46 per cent, with the rural pensioners – you should see that too – I can already point this out, Mrs Minister, because I think this is unfair – in which a fictitious exit is only an adjustment of 1.9 per cent, because a counter-accounting mechanism is involved. We must negotiate this question soon. We also have a very dynamic intermediate range, which is adjusted by 1.5 percent. If Mrs Pittermann thanks the social security staff because they are now exposed to increased stress because very difficult elements are to administer, then I must say that she is right, but we assume that modern technology is very helpful to us, and I hope that we will be half-way forward. For pensions above 10 400 S we have increased 0.6 percent, but reached a base amount of 135 S. That's nothing bad. I beg you, see it as it is! They're demanding today: We want an adjustment of 1 percent. I would like to say to you: Pension costs amount to 270 billion, of which 1 percent is 2.7 billion. But we are actually adapting by 3.21 billion, that is, we are giving 500 million more! So we even adjust higher, but socially balanced! That is an intelligent solution, a good solution, and that is why we can also acknowledge it, which is not a question at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Why are the farms so low?]] The future pension adjustment will have to be based on the demographic factor, on the development of monetary value, on the employment situation and also on the general income development. There is nothing to be done if we now vote on the political salaries, Mr Gaugg. We have to focus on the facts, everything else makes no sense. The aim must be to further adapt and improve incomes, which have the balance and financial viability to their content, because it is important that we secure the generation agreement and not provoke the next socio-political conflict. These are the challenges that we have faced up to today and which we will be happy to meet in the future, if it is expected and necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6043	As the last speaker, Mr Dobnigg has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6065	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Negotiations on pension increases are always a very sensitive issue, which has always been shown in the past. On the one hand, it is up to the pensioners to comply with a corresponding increase in their pensions – it is precisely that generation that Austria has literally rebuilt from the ruins after the World Wars – and, on the other hand, of course, attention must also be paid to the financialability of the increase in terms of the budget, but also to the future financial viability of the entire pension system. And we also have a great responsibility for today's youth. The fact that this year's negotiations were not very easy due to the current domestic policy situation does not have to be stressed. In view of these circumstances, the 2000 increase in the pension rate represents a solid and socially just distribution of the budget's available and limited resources. As a member of the Socialist Group, the social aspect of the negotiations has been most important to me. Three quarters of the approximately 2.2 million pensioners will receive an increase of their pension between 2.5 and 0.8 percent next year. In this context, I would like to remind you that according to calculation, the index for pensions is 0.5 percent and thus already the increase of 0.6 percent, which represents the minimum, is above the index. Pensioners, whose pension is between 8,000 and 9 500 S, thus receive a monthly increase of 200 S. – In total, there is an increase of 3,65 billion schilling for the Austrian pensioners. Similarly, the compensation guidelines were significantly increased by 2.46 percent – an important point in the context of the increase in pensions in 2000 with regard to the aspect of social justice. As the tax reform 2000 will benefit especially the pensioners of higher pensions, it was an obligation for us Social Democrats to make up for this imbalance in favour of the low pensions in the course of the pension negotiations for the year 2000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, this has been achieved, as some 1.45 billion schillings are also available for more socially weak people. The domestic economy will also benefit, as a result of tax reform and pension adjustment next year, an increase in purchasing power on the part of pensioners by around 8.2 billion schilling. This is a social and just policy – in contrast to the populist policy of the liberals, which has only been noticed by licensing up and down. On education and perhaps enlargement, Mr Gaugg: The Federal contribution to farmers is now already 79 percent and that of traders is already over 60 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] It also called for an increase of 800 to 1000 s for each pensioner and pensioner. These are estimated costs ranging from 23.2 to 29 billion schilling. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Your ideas are unfinancing. On the one hand, you demand from us unfinancingable, and on the other hand, you demand that more be saved. In order to finance these enormous costs, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council called for the non-renewal of the temporary contracts of all staff in the ministries and federal states. Do you know what that meant? – 4000 lecturers at the university had to have been deleted, which would have led to a collapse of university operations. The posts of 1,500 to 2,000 mothers in the Federal Service could not have been occupied during their karenz period and could no longer have been occupied by young teachers with provisional contracts. That is responsible policy at the expense of people in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although the demands of the liberals declined in the course of the negotiations, it must be said that they are simply unfinancing, at whatever actual level. Finally, I'd like to say, Ladies and gentlemen, a very personal supplement allowed. If someone like me is volunteering as a member of the Pensionist Association of his place for more than 20 years, he is all the more pleased with the social agreement reached. For the day-to-day confrontation with the concerns and concerns of pensioners makes me understand their situation a little better than that of those colleagues who are not too sorry to abuse even an important issue like that of the increase in pensions for propaganda purposes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6120	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 4 and 4 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading, for a sign on this point. – This is also accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades concerning new retirement and pension adjustments in the event of a fall in the consumer price increase according to the pensioner index. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 41/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (SVÄG 1999) (9 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6196	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Haller has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6220	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I came home after an event last Monday evening, 13th, I was able to hear a large part of the opinion of Vice-Chancellor Schüssel on television that he had made regarding the change in the ÖVP course, whether to go in opposition or government. I have to say that positioning was legendary to me. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A good man, Mrs. Haller!]] It is simply remarkable what the role of Mr. Vice-Chancellor of the ÖVP in these exploratory talks is at present and what he intends to change in the future in Austria. – I hear the message well; whether it hears the voters, we will see. However, it has not changed the attitude of the EIAs here in Parliament to certain things, and it is now, for example, that the ASVG is being changed for the second time in a plenary session. Twice in a plenary session! This is a thing you really should avoid in the future, I believe. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This item on the agenda concerns Amendment 41/A, a joint request from the former coalition partners, perhaps also from the future, with which a failure was already made when the 57 were adopted. ASVG-Novelle was to be abandoned, just moved again by two years. This is a state that cannot be accepted on our part! It is about extending the deadline for the global introduction of the chip card. Last year, it was already known that it will not be possible to introduce it in a comprehensive manner until 1.1.2000. However, in the case of multiple health insurance, the in-service competence has been linked to the introduction of the chip card. I wonder how we want to address these major changes which the EIA intends to make in the future, especially in its core areas, in the case of farmers, in the case of the commercial insured, if we are not even prepared in principle to make small changes, but simply to move on once again only by two years. Of course we can't take part in this! We call for a separate vote on this item on the agenda, because in an additional proposal at least a small improvement for women who have a right to be charged with child rearing times comes, namely the possibility for women to vote from the 1st century onwards. January 2000 will retire. These may take advantage of the more favourable option for them to calculate child training times. That's what we're for, of course! It's just a tiny little improvement. Since 1992 we have always tried to achieve a real pension basis for child rearing times – we have not only tried it, we have demanded it. It hasn't happened so far. It seems that the ÖVP also has the same intentions for future government work. That's where we could meet. That'd be nice. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Since 1970, Mrs. Colleague!]] But we have also presented a better result with regard to the basis of assessment. Perhaps we can also find a common basis for the future with the ÖVP in this regard. What I miss a little in the discussion of recent times is the issue of independent women's pension as a whole, for which there has been very serious debates in the context of women's desire. Today, the Minister of Women has said that she knows that single women only want to be able to go back to work as quickly as possible after a year and a half. But I have a case here in which you want exactly the opposite, Mrs Prammer! A single educator goes to the Constitutional Court because she wants to preserve the choice of child rearing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I hope she succeeds. In this debate, however, I believe that it should also be made clear, in what a precarious situation the health insurance companies are currently in total. After three relatively successful years in which one could limit the deficit in which billions of surpluses have even occurred, the first three quarters of 1999 show that this year a loss in the order of around 3 billion will occur. I would have been very interested in what we are considering in the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, because we need to act quickly to get this thing back on track, and what we intend to do, above all, in the area of the exploding level of drug spending. I think we all know there's a lot to do. At the moment nothing happens, it will be moved further. We have a different position here, of course.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6286	Mrs Reitsamer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6307	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two main points are related to the request to be made today: on the one hand, the correction in terms of child rearing times – I do not want to deal with this because Mrs Collaborine Heinisch-Hosek will deal with this in her first speech – and on the other, the health insurance for community representatives. All income from employment in social security – that was a goal of ours, and I still recognise myself to this goal in the sense of greater justice and in the sense of our solidarity. But if you look in Austria's municipal offices, especially in the many small communities, you also know about the amount of meeting fees. With this measure today, the involvement of the Gemeindemandatare in health insurance under the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act becomes by 1. In January 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. That is, they are practical by means of a reasonable solution in the system, which even the congregation considers practical. However, we have also tabled an initiative proposal today. There will also be an amendment which I am going to make, which is related to it. This initiative proposal – which I would like to address first – is concerned with the extension of the so-called Relive Foundation, i.e. the Foundation for Employees in the Food and Consumers Industry. Although this facility is not to be extended overall – the expiry is planned for the end of 2003 – it is expected to be one year longer, that is to say by the end of 2000. It is expected that about 1,000 more people will enter this foundation. In this context, I would not like to mention that this work foundation has been recognized as the best practice project in the EU. There were 6 000 workers from 1 275 establishments, and the mediation rate is 87 percent. Another point is that, in the age part-time and in the solidarity premium model, the protection of the basis of assessment in health insurance and in pension insurance – that is, the persons concerned have the basis of assessment which they had reduced before their own time-limited working time – but for accident insurance this is not possible and is to be repaired today in order to prevent any deterioration in the event of an accident at work. I am entitled to submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition to the described theme of part-time age, this is also about the reception network for apprentices. Problems in the apprenticeship market have been largely demographic in recent years. It will now be possible to evaluate what these measures have taken. This amendment therefore extends the provision for apprentices to be deprived of the accident insurance contribution in the first year of teaching. That would be at 31. ==References====External links== The extension now takes effect until 31. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6409	The amendment tabled by Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6433	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder how much initiative is possible and imaginable by the Social Democratic and ÖVP MEPs between a committee and the plenary. Mrs Reitsamer! I'd like to say that. It is, of course, good if the revitalisation foundation is extended at least with regard to the possibility of entry. You can also discuss the other proposals in your own proposal or amendment that you now had to read down. I suppose they're good. However, I would like a little more time to be used for this and, at least, to be used by the Committee, because you cannot have that in the last minute. I would think that this is less the highly praiseworthy initiative of SPÖ and ÖVP delegates than the attempt of the Ministry to accommodate something quickly. Generally speaking, I have a problem with this - as Mrs Haller said - that we have to deal with two different unnumbered, unrelated ASVG-novelations in one session once again. There is now a new proposal for an initiative, if I have understood correctly what is to be done and an amendment. So, as far as the ASVG is concerned, we continue to do as we have done, although in the past we agreed that the ASVG must continue differently. The legislative text should also be able to understand someone else than the high-privileged and high-quality officials from the Social Ministry, who are almost Austria's only experts on the ASVG. I'm honest enough to tell you this: I do not understand the revision on this item on the agenda today. And you, too, as it concerns a change and a partial suspension, have not understood this innovation, just as I did, when the decision on it was taken. However, at least it did not arrive mentally at the many community representations across Austria, because they did not receive them as much as you would have liked. You have to deal with a situation on the basis of this ASVG-novelling, which not only causes costs, but also is not as easy to explain to many as you describe it in the example of the Congregation, to which it is obvious, especially since it is a largely SPÖ- and ÖVP-dominated institution, yet somehow has informed you that this is a good thing, at least an administrative matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I really have a fundamental problem here! Of course, I am in favour of including all incomes in social security, but this example shows once again that it cannot actually go well in this form. We need to consider how social security, at least as far as employers' contributions are concerned, can be put on a completely new basis. We need to consider how we get away from this personalised insurance collection system. This, too, shows the example of the community representatives once again. In conclusion: Of course, we also agree not only with the desire for separate voting – I am very glad that this has been brought in – but also with the option of child rearing times. This is the only thing I think positive that this option has been opened up, even if it is only two years old; it should be so. I would also like to say: With this form of writing, extending, innovativeizing social laws, it should be done very slowly once and for all; we already hold to the – what I know – 150. or 160. unnumbered innovation of the ASVG. For example, I am thinking about Switzerland – you know it –: The Swiss have a much longer-term but limited social security law, which has now been innovationized eleven times. We don't necessarily have to get to the Swiss target, but: 11 Innovations in 50 years compared to 150 innovations in Austria – the Austrian legislator could actually measure this, and that is what we are here!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6481	Mr Feurstein spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6503	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are on the 1st day. Agenda item on an ASVG-Novelle and now on 2. We have already discussed in detail in the Committee a further ASVG-Novelle item. I also explained why it came about, ladies and gentlemen: One is a government template, and the other is a proposal which concerns in particular the representatives of the local authorities and which has just been drawn up in the context of the discussions between the two clubs SPÖ and ÖVP. And we cannot bring together government documents and proposals for initiative until today as part of the consultation. – This would be a wish with regard to amending the provisions on the treatment of applications. I agree with you that we should consider an amendment in such a way that, if an initiative proposal and a government proposal have the same law, they can also be merged into a joint request or decision-making. But this is not related to the rejection of a template. I haven't heard any other arguments for a rejection until the hour, than to change a law twice here. On the matter itself, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary – and this, Mrs Haller, is not related to the chip card – that the current double insurance scheme, the double insurance scheme under old law, should continue for two years, because it is simply in the sense of the insured and the insurance company. For example, we have introduced changes to the Farm Social Insurance Act. You know that certain things have been changed in the field of health insurance in such a way that there is also a multi-sickness insurance for farmers, for example in the field of industrial social security and a second insurance. This will have to be carried on for another two years until the chip card is introduced. But this does not depend on the fact that the chip card cannot now be introduced, I would like to point this out very clearly, Mrs Haller. You have not read the law exactly on this point – or not exactly formulated it. [[Abg. Aumayr: Probably not exactly formulated!]] You probably haven't formulated exactly. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! As for the representatives of the local authorities, I have to say: This has been agreed within the framework of the privilege discussion, which has been conducted by your club as well as by the ÖVP Club and the SPÖ Club. It was said at the time: Every parish administrator is supposed to be insured. That's what you wanted, consciously wanted, just like the two other clubs. Of course, the municipal mandates asked why they must be insured if they receive only a minimum session fee. We have now taken into account this desire of the municipalities and the congregation. If the representative gets less than the lower limit, i.e. around 4 000 p., then no compulsory insurance should arise. In this way, we are in line with the wishes of the Federal Government. At the time, you or your colleagues in the Commission wanted compulsory insurance as much as everyone else. At the time, we were all aware of what we decided to do. We shouldn't be here and say, We didn't know what was coming! You knew, and everyone else also knew, ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to find out. I think it is right that we take into account the desire of the parish representatives, the municipal mandates and the congregation: They are exempt from compulsory insurance if the income from this activity does not exceed the limit on low-security. This is a matter of fairness, a matter also of social justice. Ladies and gentlemen! One important thing for us – to which Mrs Ridi Steibl will comment – is that we are introducing the most favour for older women, and that the new regulation should apply in the field of social security from 1. January 2000 or the old legal situation should apply. The older women should get the cheaper, regardless of whether they retire in 1999 or in 2000. They should not be disadvantaged if they are not retired until 2000. That is what we want to achieve, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, this is a very good solution that we have found here, namely to provide the most favourable for older women. There should be no difference whether women retire in 1999 or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point put forward in Mrs Reitsamer's request is our approval, although we are not satisfied with it. We are extending an excellent measure for apprenticeships, which we decided here in the House in 1997. At the time, we decided that no accident insurance contribution must be paid for apprentices in the first year of education. – An excellent measure, and this measure has also led to an improvement in the apprenticeship situation. In fact, there is no one who doubts this measure in the future, but in the negotiations you only granted us this measure until 31. ==References====External links== And that is unfortunate, Mrs Reitsamer. I say this quite clearly: It is unfortunate that this measure will only last until 31. July is extended and not permanent! Ladies and gentlemen! I notice: It was not only Mrs Reitsamer, it was mainly the representatives, namely the Social Democratic representatives in the ÖGB, who demanded that it should only be extended until 31. July of next year. If I hear now, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a new government, there will be a fundamental change, I must say: What we have experienced today corresponds exactly to the methods and methods and the strategy that have been used over and over again in the last legislative period. You don't argue about subject- and problem-oriented, but you just represent a Justament stand. What we are being promoted as a "government new" by the German Chancellor is not implemented until the hour. – That is why I also doubt a little of the good will to really "new government", a new strategy to bring about a new way of dealing with parliamentary issues and decisions. I'm very sorry. This decision, ladies and gentlemen, is at least a disadvantage for apprentices, because some teachers will say who knows what the National Council will finally decide at the middle of the year 2000. Of course, he is also at the expense of our youth. It is a pity that you simply insist on Justament positions and do not accept things that are correct, which are recognized by all as correct. I doubt the "new government" that is constantly being propagated.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6551	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6573	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Feurstein! On the other hand, I do not doubt that even with a future Federal Government – we have heard many times today in this hall: whoever will be that – especially the interest of young people in Austria will be put in the focus. I can only say the following: It is essential and valuable to keep checking measures for their efficiency. And, even because we have already been talking about budgets so much today, especially from this point of view of the most efficient use of those funds that are being made available to us, I believe that this seven-month period for an evaluation of an existing measure is quite justified. In seven months, it may well be that even better, even more efficient measures can be found. – So much to replicate a piece on it. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to respond briefly to the Social Insurance Amendment Act and to provide a summary. The Labour and Social Law Amending Act 1997 included the exception of health insurance under the B-KUV for local representatives with effect from other legal provisions in the health insurance system. In January 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. You all know that. This measure goes back to the resolution adopted by the National Council of 2 December 1988. In October 1996, the Federal Government was asked to "design the development of the Austrian social security system with a view to a broad and fair involvement of all incomes". In the context of the implementation of the resolution, the existing derogations have been repealed in all social security laws. The cost burden of the municipalities through the involvement of municipal representatives in health insurance under the B-KUV is primarily due to the institution's minimum contribution basis, since it is assumed that the majority of the monthly compensation of municipal representatives is under the minimum contribution base of currently 6 390 S. The next B-KUV-Novelle will propose a system-compliant solution to this problem in order to avoid unfair results in the context of the abolition of these subsidiarity provisions. The changes have also been quoted, I think I can save myself to repeat them again. I would also like to refer to the comments made by some speakers on child care or child rearing. On the one hand, we should not forget: ==References== The accounts for child care periods will be greatly improved in January 2000. We don't know what that will really mean yet. For this reason, I have considered how the current accounts of child rearing work. I just took out one area to document this here, too, namely at the normal age pension – the whole is a sample of the new entry in 1996 – at least 4 500 women – I almost assume – are granted and counted as pension benefits for children's pension at 900 s. That means that this is a huge contribution to the fact that women can also receive corresponding pensions. But at this point I would like to focus on the following: In the future, we have talked about the system of payments, we have spoken of the solidarity system, of course, it is about leaving young people open their prospects, but above all it will be about opening up women's access to employment, to employment accordingly. This is not going to be able to bet child rearing times, but only to complement them, because self-employed self-employment is the centre, but, I believe, we need them for the solidarity to give our pension system, of course, corresponding prospects for the future. In my opinion, this should be the major effort in the next few years: How can we improve the situation for women when they enter employment? At the same time, they also greatly increase their access to a better situation in old age. - So much for it. Many other additional considerations are still to be considered. I am already looking forward to seeing this new regulation on child rearing times, which began on 1 January. January 2000 will enter into force, many women will feel in the future, because I am convinced that they deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6627	Mrs Aumayr has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6648	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Feurstein! There is no doubt that this Social Insurance Amendment Act entails a serious burden on agriculture. There is no doubt about that. I do not think, Mr Feurstein, that there has been a wish on the part of the peasantry that this change will come about. One has to imagine only the following: The ancillary farmers have so far paid their social security contributions, health insurance contributions depending on the farm in which they worked as auxiliary workers. From now on, Mr Feurstein, thanks to your initiative, farmers have to pay double social security and health insurance contributions. As of January 2000, the ancillary farmers will also have to pay social security contributions to the Farmers' Insurance Fund. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then they may be sick twice!]] – Be sick twice and then consume twice, it just can't. They are now taking the farmers into account the serious income loss, once again. That's your policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Feurstein! It is nevertheless a social-political scandal after the other one that one does to the farmer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Is that true, Feurstein?]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not at all!]] The average farmer's pension, Mr. Colle, is about 7 000 p. After a lifetime of work, after 20, 30, 40 years of hard farming, the farmers in this country, in this affluent land, are fed down with 7 000 s! Is that a scandal, or do you think that's all right? Or, Mr Feurstein: Support farmers must pay unemployment contributions. When they get unemployed... – But they get unemployment benefit when they become unemployed. [[Abg. Edler: That's what others have to pay!]] However, you do not even know that about the working-time farmers, Mr Edler. – they have to pay unemployment contributions – that is legally regulated and also in order – but when they become unemployed and they have a unit value of more than 50 000 s, they do not get schilling. The prisoners – also thanks to your decision, Mr. Feurstein – acquire a right to unemployment benefit with their term of detention, but the auxiliary farmers who work twice need to pay and receive none. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's where abysses open!]] Mr Feurstein! You decide one social-political scandal after another for the farmers, and you will soon be presented the bill – I tell you!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6745	Mrs. Mag, the Federal Minister, once again spoke. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6767	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at what Mrs Aumayr said. I think it was a good and essential decision that was taken here in the House to include all incomes in the system together and in solidarity. Since individual professional groups are growing out, I do not think that they are solid. I believe that it is important not to lose sight of the fact that the system must be the same for all, that all must meet the basic conditions. There is nothing to do with opening up the discussions in parallel, what we can do in health insurance and what we can no longer afford, and with exception systems that do not guarantee us to have a solid system, especially in health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6796	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6817	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleague, Mrs Reitsamer, has already announced, in my speech, I would just like to address the amendment to Amendment 41/A of the supplements introduced in the Committee on Social Affairs. This amendment causes a small group of women to be taken into account before the 1st century. Born September 1941, enjoys the better assessment of child rearing periods and is based on the basic principle that improvements in pension insurance should benefit all, including those who were specifically protected by transitional periods. In order to achieve an increase in the actual retirement age, the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act amended the requirements for the use of the early retirement pension. Those persons who had already reached the early retirement age on the day of the new regulation's in-force pace were excluded. For this group of persons, they continue to be the ones prior to the 1st century. Rules on the calculation of pensions in force on September 1996 shall apply if they are more favourable to them. Behind it is the following thought: Those who have already reached the early retirement age at the time of the in-force pace of the novelle should at least be protected from any deterioration in the right to benefit. The 1997 pension reform makes it effective 1. In January 2000, the basis of assessment for child rearing was increased to the level of the compensation allowance rate for single-parents. In concrete terms, this means an increase of 6 500 S to 8 312 S from the year 2000. The aim of the proposed amendment is to ensure that women who were before 1 January 1994 are included in the proposed amendment. ==References====External links== Born September 1936 and not yet in retirement, can also benefit from the improved billing of child rearing times. This means that the old legal situation should only be applied if it is cheaper for the insured. However, I would like to point out that there is still no responsible funding for child rearing. These are financed only to a very small extent through the family compensation fund, which still has very high surpluses. But most of it comes from the Federal contribution. For us Social Democrats, the highest priority is to ensure that child rearing times can be financed properly and therefore achievable. For us, it is also about the importance of self-employed age insurance for women and the further development of the pension system in this direction. It is crucial for women to have employment opportunities and to be able to take advantage of them. In any case, the compatibility of work and family must be given to allow women choices. To this end, childcare facilities must be available in sufficient numbers and offer needs-oriented opening hours according to the needs of today's working world. The path of our country's conservative forces, repeatedly indirectly prolonged, "Women back to the stove!", is unbearable for us Social Democrats, for he excludes a self-determined life for women. We stand by the Austrian pension system, which can only be financed by adequate employment. And for that we will continue to work with all our strength in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6867	Mr Pumberger spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6888	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Very well, Mr Feurstein, the additional workers are declared to be double contributors. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not now! Not with today's template!]] You have disputed this, but the woman minister – and you are still in a "government old", as you have said – has told you that you must not take the farmers out. But you, as social spokesperson of the ÖVP, cannot openly admit that. They have significantly deteriorated the situation in health insurance for a professional group, namely for farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But not with today's template! You know that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about the "government" which should now be formed, Mr. Feurstein, I give you the right to say: I doubt this "new government" as much as you do, but you are almost in the bed of this new edition of the "government old", and we will see what this will bring for Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From the year 2000 onwards, there will be a full commitment to multiple health insurance. That's what changes. That means that this brings more contributions to the health insurance companies. A source of revenue for the health insurance companies was opened up by the abolition of subsidiarity. But the health insurance companies still have a huge deficit to expect, 3 billion schilling are forecast for 1999. If the amounts are so high, one has to doubt whether social health insurance is still in a position to fulfil its statutory service contract. The benefits are clearly shortened, the number of head medical approvals increases, the prescription fee is increased, and benefits are no longer paid. This is a significant deterioration for patients. Medicines increase by 14, 15 percent and more per year. This is not due to the fact that the doctors order more – the number of prescribed drug packs has remained the same for years – but the medications have become more special, have become more expensive because they have become better. We don't want to keep patients away from the better drugs, so you have to see how to close this funding gap. Ladies and gentlemen! The condition with regard to the electoral doctors that only 80 percent of the electoral costs are refunded is not sustainable. De facto it is much less, if you also include that the 50 S is deducted from health certificate tax; in the case of a one-time ordination at the electoral doctor, about 20 to a maximum of 30 percent are refunded. Therefore, we believe that the health certificate tax, the health certificate fee of 50 S, is to be called into question again, because the government has declared in the debate on the electoral costs that only these 80 percent and not 100 percent are refunded, because the billing per patient is about 100 S, while the billing by the doctor per patient is only 5 s. The introduction of the health certificate tax has been justified by the fact that the administrative costs for billing the health certificates are so high. That means you have clearly contradicted yourself here. If the billing for cash doctors is only 5 s per shine, we can delete it without replacement, and therefore I now submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The administrative costs are by far not as high as they were given by the government parties as the reason for the introduction of the health certificate tax. It has clearly shown – and you have said it yourself in several press releases – that the billing per health certificate costs only 5 s. If we were to introduce a 5 S health certificate tax, it would be a bagatell charge, whose administrative costs would be a multiple of these 5 S. That is why we are in favour of a replacement-free cancellation of the health certificate fee. The government is already aware that this health certificate tax is obviously no longer justified, because it costs only 5 s per patient. Therefore, I am confident that the government parties today will agree to our request for the abolition of the health certificate tax.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6975	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. The principal and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. As the last speaker on this point, Mrs Ridi Steibl has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7002	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In her statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer said that there is now an incredible improvement for women in the pension reform from 2000 onwards and that it should also be taken into account for younger women. – Yes, there we are d’accord, but I believe it is necessary to achieve equality for so-called women of ruins. Pension insurance for women is an enormously important concern for us, the ÖVP, with our social spokesperson Gottfried Feurstein, because we know that inequality in working life continues at the age, but on the other hand, the interruption of child rearing and the reckoning of child rearing times is still too little in terms of retirement periods. Therefore, the ÖVP already reached – and brought in and achieved – in 1991 that child rearing times are included in the pension calculation. What we are talking about today has already been mentioned by many previous speakers. I would just like to sum this up again. As I said earlier, it is particularly about the billing of child rearing times for women who were before the 1st century. They were born on September 1, 1941, are not yet in retirement and their deadline for the pension from 1 September 1941. January 2000. It is therefore necessary to re-adjust the 2000 pension reform. The most favourable clause now to be decided on, according to which the more favourable provision should be applied in the calculation of pensions, is based on a request from the ÖVP and we look forward to voting on this next necessary step for this women's group. However, in order to further support cohesion in society, the implementation of further points is necessary. I only mention a few: First: In order to ensure the age of women who have gaps in the course of work due to child training, the possibility of their own pension entitlement should be created gradually by combining child training periods and contribution periods. This means that women are counted as working for four years per child. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to ensure a modern age insurance for women, it is also necessary to implement our already more often submitted application with regard to the pension division in the event of divorce. The separation of goods in the divorce case was laid down by law as early as 1978. Now it would be time to lay down the law that pension entitlements should be calculated fictitiously and distributed to both spouses at the time of divorce, if necessary. If I have already gone towards family policy and Mr Oillinger of the often mentioned how unsocial the ÖVP is, I would just like to say here that it was the ÖVP with the Minister of Family Bartenstein, who has long before pointed out that it will be a necessary task for a new government to increase the amount of carnation money to 6 000 S. However, I think that this request and its treatment also belong to the Family Committee and not only to the Committee. It has been said of measures to improve the compatibility of work and family life. Finally, I would like to say: We of the ÖVP have taken first steps. We know that it is only in conjunction with the economy that this will be an important step, an important work in the near future, and that we should not forget the "carnation money for all". All in all, if we decide to be a proper package for women, and it's up to you to go here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7065	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, the title and the inclusion in 9 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have also tabled an additional request. In addition, there is one by the honourable Member Mag. The main request for separate vote is made. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposals mentioned, then on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted an additional request for the inclusion of a new Z 1 in Article 1 and related amendments to the terms of reference. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The Members of Parliament Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new Z 1 in Article 1 of the directive and for the insertion of a Z 2a and 4 in Article 1. I am looking for a positive sign for those members of the House who give their consent here. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 Z 1a (new) (§ 563 para. 19), Article 2 Z 1 and Article 3 Z 1a, as amended by the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval for a positive sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 3rd. Point First reading: Request by Members Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Care Money Act (BPGG) (43/A)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7148	We shall now proceed to item 3 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Haidlmayr. I wish to limit your speaking time by 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7175	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of care provision, which should have been a positive result in 1993 with the introduction of the increased care allowance, is repeated every year. The problem therefore arises because you have had nothing else in mind with the care allowance since 1993 but to constantly reduce it and disassembly disassembly. How else could it be that even this year the care allowance, and only the care allowance, will not be valorized? – Since 1996, Valorization has ceased to exist, and that is de facto a loss of more than 7 percent for every care-needed person in Austria. It is alleged that there is no money for this valorization. I ask you: What to do What about the money that is being saved from the increase in social security contributions? – This increase has been made exclusively for the financing of the increased care allowance. Where, then, are the social security benefits funds increasing year after year? They say that more and more social security services are being created – so more money has to be taken in too! We already know where the money is. They use it to stop the holes in the budget and do not pass it on to those affected. We really think this is fatal in Austria! First, you tell the service providers that they have to pay more social security contributions – you have introduced the 0.8 percent increase with the notice that this money only serves to finance the increased care money – and then you move these revenues into any other channels of the budget. This situation is not sustainable for us disabled people in Austria! But non-valorization for five years is not the only problem that always opens up to disabled and in need of care. They were, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, who decided that care homes and residents of disabled and old homes were reduced by 50 percent. Only 569 S will you be able to take care of a person in the nursing home, and this is really a condition that Austria is not supposed to afford anymore. You really need to be ashamed that you have to say old and disabled people: 569 S are for you. More is no longer inside for you in the month. I'm sure some of them will say: But they also have 20 percent of the pension they can keep. – Of course, they can keep these 20 percent, but this only applies on condition that they receive a pension at all! However, many of the disabled and in need of care do not have a pension, so they depend on the above mentioned 569 s. The fact that you have reduced the care allowance of Stage 1 by 20 percent – from 2 600 S to 2 000 S – also shows very clearly what it is about you. They are exclusively concerned with being able to allocate funds for the budget from the dedicated resources for the care money, and this is, as has been said, very successful, because the care allowance of Stage 1 is less than the lowest aid. In this area you have made plenty of profits at the expense of care money providers. They have not yet learned that it is an essential difference whether you have a disabled infant or a child who is not disabled. Since I assume that you have or have had to deal with child rearing in your private area, I do not need to tell you that it is a much greater effort to care for a disabled child. My colleague will do this in greater detail later. Overall, it really is a shame for Austria, how you deal with disabled people who depend on state benefits. I would like to give you a sentence by Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, dated 17 May. Cite November 1999. He said very honestly at the time: Budget consolidations always create a dangerous situation for minorities. There is a danger of crossing minorities. - Quote. I can only say: This danger not only exists, but it has been done for years! This danger has been put into reality by crossing people with disabilities by not taking into account disabled people and their needs in a specific case. You also forgot that with the 54. Innovation of the ASVG dramatically deteriorates for those in need of care who cover their assistance and care through assistance services. Of course, our assistants now also have to pay social security contributions. But the compensation that the assistants have must be paid out of the care money. People in need of care have been able to afford fewer and less care hours or hours of assistance since 1993. This will also lead to fatal consequences in Austria in the longer term. Because if one calculates what it would cost to anyone in need of care or assistance in Austria, who is a care payer, to take care of a public institution only five hours a week, one can see that we simply could not afford it, not because the corresponding offers are not there at all. That's why: Be glad that many, many people can organize their assistance in the context of the family or themselves! Because even more efficient these services are not available in Austria. We have the effort and the stress for this because we simply demand our self-determined life as a right. We also have the consequences of bearing because we have to organize our assistance. We are basically in use around the clock to adjust our standard of living half that of non-inhibitors – at least as far as the field of assistance and assistance is concerned. They are trying to get us this important element of life to take away this important foundation piece by piece and bring us back step by step towards institutionalization and home instruction. As far as the non-valorization of the care allowance is concerned, you can't explain to anyone from the care payers in Austria that these funds are not available – because we all know that they are there. And you, ladies and gentlemen, must justify why you stop budget holes at the expense of the care payers instead of passing on these funds to those affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7253	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7275	Mr President. High house! Mr Haidlmayr's request at first reading essentially contains three demands, namely the demand for the three-year old age limit for the right to care allowance, the valorization of the care allowance and the doubling of the allowance. I understand that Mrs. Haidlmayr, of his own concern, perceives things differently from others, and of course I agree with her. However, I also do not want to hide my concern that all the efforts we make, especially for those people, need special support in order to shape their everyday lives, that all these efforts are simply presented negatively. [[Abg. That's the way it is!]] I really want to say this. First point. We are well aware of how to cover hardship cases, how to introduce the hard-leaf clause, which also takes a distance from this age limit of three years, in order to enable infants in an individual case to receive the care allowance and the entitlement to it. I looked at the situation in my own state, Styria. In the last three years, almost all the applications submitted have also been approved. The recognition has almost always been granted. But there are already federal states that are a step further, for example the federal state of Salzburg, which first started with it. The federal states of Vienna and Tyrol have gone after this year, and they too have distanced themselves from this age limit of three years. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: The Härteclausel also in Vorarlberg!]] - Yeah, we've got the hard feelings anyway. But I am now talking about the actual disappearance of the age limit of three years, which has taken place in these three federal states – Salzburg, Tirol and Vienna. Mrs Haidlmayr has just mentioned this briefly, but let us take a look at the situation of parents whose child has a disability or several disabilities from birth: In many cases, this means reorientation of the entire life-planning – often a parent gives up the work of the profession, in order to be able to care for the child accordingly – which means enormous daily organizational effort, especially fears and concerns. And the caregivers – mostly the mothers – often encounter their physical, mental, and emotional limits. Ladies and gentlemen! Parents – I think there will be no contradiction – generally strive for the greatest well-being of their child. This task is already a major challenge for a child with a normal development. For parents who have children with disabilities, it is at least even more difficult and again different depending on the degree and type of disability. Of course, in this difficult situation, bureaucratic obstacles, coupled with the uncertainty of whether or not a recognition is granted, mean an additional burden. I have already said in the Committee, at the last meeting of the Committee: I will make a personal commitment – I can really promise – to the fact that we come to a solution together with the federal states. In such a difficult period of life, there should be at least some legal certainty. On Valorization, Mrs Haidlmayr. We should consider – we have discussed this a few times – whether there might be better, more targeted measures. I'm still looking at the problem, and we've got that... - Wait, I'm coming to talk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] We have also had the problem of introducing the care allowance: The money is often paid one too one for nursing places. We need care sites, too. Unfortunately, not everyone can self-determine his life. The problem is that the funds often go one way to these institutions and there is only a federal funding that relieves other public households or benefits private providers. The aim of the care allowance is that those who need this care can buy help and thus make a better daily life, but do not go in the right direction because this does not reduce the care places for those in need. I would like us to think again about creative measures similar to the last one, thanks to the improved access to stage 4, we have received at least 16 000 beneficiaries per month almost 3 000 S. Mrs Haidlmayr, this has been an increase of 2.5 percent in total volume. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Where? Who? When?]] - So much to your question. For pocket money, I would like to say the following: I know from my own experience, because unfortunately I was also affected by this problem, that there are many needs that are not provided at a nursing site. This starts with the laundry you have to buy, because people change physically, and goes over the hairdresser to the hair shampoo and the like. This is particularly painful for those people who have only the pocket money as their only income, who do not remain the mentioned 20 percent of the pension. Perhaps it is possible for us – and this too is another problem that we need to address with the countries – that is clear because we have this in the country's obligations, at least for this group of persons. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That was there, you did delete it!]] Mrs Haidlmayr! We will have the opportunity in the Committee to discuss it in detail. However, I would ask you to really try to go together with us a constructive path of the feasibility and also to agree that we too are trying to achieve the best possible for the persons concerned – in consensus with all those who bear responsibility for it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7361	The next speaker was Mrs Gatterer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7383	Mr President. High house! I know that dealing with the disabled, with the policies of the disabled, is a matter that we must always devote ourselves to. It is a policy of many, larger and smaller steps. I know that there are always wishes in this area, including legitimate wishes, but I would also like to point out that much has happened in recent years. There are currently more than 300 000 people in Austria who receive care. There is also a high satisfaction with the system in Austria: At least 68 percent of care providers are generally satisfied with their classification. I think that already shows that it is a very good law on and on itself. It must be said that Austria has a good regime. I do not understand Mrs Haidlmayr. Mr Haidlmayr! Where is money that needs to be used for the disabled on and for themselves? – In 1999 alone, that was 17.4 billion schilling. I emphasize: alone from the covenant! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] They know that countries also make very high payments, and local authorities too are involved. So that there is an alienation of purpose in this area, this claim cannot be left in the room here! That's just not right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think we have tried – the law was created in 1993 – to bring about improvements in many important steps over and over again. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Which one?]] Finally, there was the improvement for the 16 000 caregivers already quoted, who now receive at least 3 000 s per month due to the better classification in care level 4. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: What about the other 300,000?]] For example, it was also important that for relatives or relatives who leave the profession to care for, the federal government takes over the employer role and, above all, the costs. I mean, there are a lot of steps that have just been followed. There are, of course, still many questions open. I don't want to hide this. For me, above all, the question arises: Is there a similar scheme in all federal states? Are all disabled people and all children in all federal states equally supported? – Again and again, there are reservations because in some federal states there is a feeling that a worse classification is taking place and thus a lower degree of protection for the disabled is given. I mean, that's something we need to deal with. I think there should be an in-depth investigation in the Social Ministry to clarify what the country comparison looks like. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also true for the comprehensive care and comprehensive offers. We know that there is a broad supply in cities, but we also know that there are still white spots in the rural regions in this context. I believe that we also need to acknowledge that all providers can offer on equal terms and, if there is a public support, we should also have the same opportunities in this area. There are federal states in which this is by no means maintained, for example in Carinthia. The freedom of choice of patients is also a priority for the ÖVP. The only way for patients to have freedom of choice is to have several offers across the board. However, it must be said that, in this context, there are major problems in the rural regions that disabled people, for example rehabilitation or early promotion of children, have a city-country gap. In general, one has to deal with the question – especially as a politician, who is very concerned with women’s issues, I have to ask –: Is the care allowance coming to the caregivers? – In this respect, many complaints are made to me, especially by women who care within the family, according to which the care allowance, which is provided for, is not passed on for the care. This too should be examined and clarified once, as we have introduced this money for care. For me, social security is also a question for these family members. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Not always!]] That is why I do not understand you, Mrs Haidlmayr. I do not understand that you do not want these people who care for disabled people with a lot of idealism – our great respect applies to those who care for the disabled – to social security. I don't understand your objection. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: We want that, but not only to the families!]] I would like to focus very briefly on the question of why children should not receive care from birth. I think we have to deal with this issue, but also say that this is a question of the countries. Tirol, Salzburg and Vienna really took on a pioneering role. I myself know from some cases that we have to start in such a way that there is a different catalogue of criteria from the Ministry of Children. You don't get the number of hours, because you have to freeze the little child, you have to clean his teeth, you have to put it on. When you calculate this, it is very difficult for many children to enjoy a care provision. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: As white as you are, that's terrible! You're talking like the blind one about the color! I don't know!]] I therefore believe that we should consider criteria in this regard. I know from mothers who have disabled children that we have to make sure that these mothers also have leisure time, that they come out of the care area, but also above all that there are fixed caregivers for disabled children, since disabled children are very sensitive when the caregivers constantly change, are constantly foreign persons. [[Calls to the Greens.]] For me, social policy is particularly important – I believe it is important now for Christmas – that disabled children can be taken back into society and disabled people are not excluded from our society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I know that many healthy people have problems dealing with the disabled, namely, insecurity. It is therefore important that we integrate children, even disabled children, more and more into our society, give parents a helping hand and shape our environment in such a way that disabled children can participate in social life. We have to reconsider your points, we have to see if there are any possibilities, we have to negotiate with the countries. I believe that the Minister for Social Affairs would be asked to look in her area at whether social security has been given in all areas, whether much could be changed in the field of disability, in order to better support the concerns of the disabled. I believe that every individual is required in the field of disability policy. And just before Christmas, you have to say, too. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: This has nothing to do with Christmas!]] There are hundreds of thousands of Austrians who are committed to holding events, benefit concerts, bazaars. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: We are not alms recipients, we want rights!]] I believe that this is true, namely that the disabled are not only supported anonymously by the taxpayer, but that everyone is truly committed to personal active assistance to the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7532	Next speaker is Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7556	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There are not a lot of Greens' requests, which I approve, almost none, but I can agree with Mrs Haidlmayr's request because it concerns the old demands of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm also glad you've put all of this in a block right now. The valorization of the care money is indeed, ladies and gentlemen, a truly infinite story in this house, one that is very uncanny, very inconvenient. In recent years, all the financial victims have been demanded of the disabled, as have the other taxpayers – I would like to remind them: To the last savings package, the disabled have contributed with 4 billion schilling, through various cuts, through the introduction of self-maintainment and so on! – but the care allowance has not been valorized. Mrs Gatterer! I think your speech was embarrassing. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] If you claim that improvements have been made continuously in recent years, I must say that this is not at all true. How do you justify that the disabled have to contribute 4 billion schilling to the savings package? – You just can't answer that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1994 the care allowance has not been valorised. This measure of the savings package resulted in a continuous reduction of the care allowance: First of all, inflation has failed to pay for care money; secondly, there are self-retaining and other measures – a lot of tax measures have been put in place. Unfortunately, all previous attempts to stir you up, to ask you to valorize the care money have failed. Finally, in July of this year, we have tabled a proposal on this subject, which you have unanimously rejected by Red and Black. I know. There is little money, there are budget deficits and so on, but especially with the disabled, because in the last decades the disabled have always been those who have been asked for the checkout and who have been the sufferers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: But this is more than polemic!]] I said your speech was embarrassing, Mrs. Gatterer. The thing you've done here today is, I think, a very bad pre-coalition mood. The ambiguity of ÖVP and SPÖ, when it comes to preventing the valorization of the care money, is truly remarkable. They use all kinds of excuses in order not to have to do what is urgently necessary. Mrs Silhavy says that we should go the constructive path of the feasible in consensus with everyone. Excuse me, but that's really hot air. What are you doing? This is a series of words, but not more, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Instead of dealing with how to improve the situation of the disabled, how to raise the financial resources in order to valorise the care allowance, the abuse debate comes over and over again. You, Mrs Gatterer, also mentioned: There are abuses of care money! [[Abg. Gatterer: I didn't say that!]] In other areas where abuse is much more obvious, you should sniff around, but not with the disabled, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have put the abuse debate here again and said: You know, people always come to you. There's hardly a politician who's integrated into the disabled scene like me, because I have a disabled child. However, no complaints are made to me because this alleged abuse simply does not exist – except perhaps for some old people who are in the care level 1 who have the care allowance or the pocket money in the night box, and where you always say that the heirs take the money. But for the disabled, there is simply no such abuse. Take note of this at last! [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] But also, for example, the Minister of Finance, under the title of "abuse", says that the Care Act is constantly being reviewed for improvements. He would have the opportunity to improve the law on care money if he had only finally valorized. But no, he's thinking about taking away something from the disabled. However, what the President of the Chamber of Directors has done is very bad. The President of the Medical Chamber called for the care allowance to be used logically to recover the costs of house visits. There's no such thing as trouble at all. Then a certain amount would have to be deducted from every citizen who makes a visit to the house. – That’s politics, you don’t deal with it; you accept it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just as you jump with the disabled, it can't continue in the future. I find it sad that you are doing a common thing with the Socialists on this point by the ÖVP, just to secure a kickboard into the next coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as justified as the criticism of the non-valorization of the care allowance is also the criticism that the care allowance is not paid from birth, but only from the third year of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gatterer.]] We have always been against this regulation! We have already said in the introduction of the care allowance that it is unfair not to grant the care allowance to the parents of disabled children and to withdraw only from the cases of hardship – to which it came in 1996. Mrs. Gatterer! They compare the care effort for a child who is not disabled to that of a disabled child. You have no idea at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What do you think the care of a disabled child means, what does this mean in medical visits?- Oh, my God! There is suction if, for example, a child cannot breathe, or motion therapy. You don't know that. I'd like to invite you: Come and look at a newborn disabled infant or a disabled child until the third year of life! You would then say that the mother not only pays the simple care allowance, but the double of all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you're talking like someone who has no idea. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, despite the strained financial, budgetary situation, the funds for the disabled cannot be further reduced, and I urge you to work with us to improve the situation of the disabled!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7679	Mrs Lichtenberger came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. . I am pleased that a Tyrolean will come to the speaker's seat when I will hold the presidency in this House for the first time. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] - Please, Mrs. Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7715	Ladies and gentlemen! The focus of my debate today on this package, which Mrs Haidlmayr has developed, is less than three years old in solving the problem of the care allowance for disabled children. On the basis of Mr Gatterer's comments – at least some of them – I would almost have thought that she would have to support our request. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I didn't take that!]] The only thing with which she has then gone a long way again – that has really hit me very much – was the argument that one also had to freeze, wrap and care for children who are not disabled; this has been the result of her words. [[Abg. Gatterer: You have deliberately misunderstood that!]] To do this, I can only say: If one has even the slightest idea of the needs, of the care needs in the field of disabled children, one of these would have to remain in the neck. If you want to get a little insight – I think you should do that, even if you are against a request, as I have now taken it from this and from this side in particular – then you have to think about how this will eventually lead to your mind. [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] It is not only for me to point out that there are huge injustices in this area, but also to point out that the fact that no care money is available and therefore no early promotion can lead to enormous consequences which, for example, immediately become visible at school. Not only the direct experience of teachers, but also studies from Switzerland clearly show that the development residues of unfunded children, such as Down Syndrome, are enormous. An unfunded child is on the stand of a two- to three-year-old child due to an additional delay in development, a child with Down syndrome who has been promoted early is then on the stand of a five-year-old child and has learned things that can only be learned under three years of age, no longer later. These are questions of language development and also of movement. If you have a little idea of Paduan pedagogy, you know that you have to expect intelligence deficits from a child who can't own the world, like another, so to speak, an average child. However, early promotion can alleviate this problem in many areas of disturbances in such a way that only the disorder itself, the disability itself, whether it is inborn or acquired, remains, but not also the at the same time arrears of development. You know – if not, you should have it – that children with palate clefts can only be treated under three years of age, that children who have early childhood operations because they have just come to the world with disabilities require an enormously increased care effort, and you should know that all that they do not do in the first three years may fall on their minds for a lifetime, that a lifetime in addition a development delay occurs, because the irritant behavior cannot develop so strongly. The fact that federal states have gone ahead in this area – including Tyrol – is due to the use of disabled organisations and, above all, to organisations of parents of disabled children who have been trying for many years to compensate here. I think it unbearable that only in some federal states has it come after massive commitment and that there is no willingness from your side and above all from your side – you think we should wait until perhaps everyone is willing to work together – to create a common arrangement. [[towards ÖVP and SPÖ]] On the appeal of the Social Democratic Party, we should address this problem together and with a great deal of attention: Yes, with an eye - sized eye, with the eye measure of those who know the situation of caregivers, from children up to three years old and look at them too! – With your attention and with your willingness to "go with" here, we can do this immediately. When listening, you could find out: You know the situation, you describe it as difficult and almost unbearable for most women who care – almost no men who can be released for it. But when you say as a consequence: We do not decide on this adjustment of the care allowance, so I lack – but perhaps I am not faced with you for long enough – simply and grasping the understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! This point is a disgrace in the care money scheme, and this disgrace you might be able to remove today, in the consultations immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Then we would not have to wait until you, out of loud commonness, perhaps also draw the consequences from your own opinion together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7781	Mr Harald Fischl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7806	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, this motion for a first reading here in Parliament today is the first request of Mrs Haidlmayr, but in reality the second reading is already taking place in this matter, because, as you will remember, a few months ago a request was debated at the first reading of Mr Herbert Haupt here in the House. We liberals have already explained that the issue of old-age care should not be limited to just a few monetary aspects, but that we are invited by policy to deal with and deal with the issue of old-age care in our country in principle, and that is because the fact that the old- and disabled-care sector in our country is becoming increasingly important to the population as a whole forces us to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, 300,000 people are currently receiving care benefits, 80 percent of them in Stages 1 and 2, i.e. in the low monetary levels, in the low levels of money used. But what happens in the future? – Those people who are in these two stages today will surely move to other stages in a few years due to their morbidity, and we should already think about the impact that this will have on the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I am a person who is also active in this sector and who – I have said this for the last time – unfortunately had to live with God as a child at home, like a child who was born in my mother and who was then seriously injured in the hospital, had to live for 13 years in the martyrium – I say quite consciously because I have experienced this daily and know what I am talking about – the opinion is: You should only have children up to the third year of age and disabled children at all To give thought to Mrs Partik-Pablé's proposal – to mothers, to parents who have to give up, and to children who must not lack absolutely high-quality medical care. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I find it embarrassing that we need to discuss this, because it is really not about so many children, it is really not about as many people affected as the Republic of Austria could not afford – it could not afford to live the term solidarity exemplaryly. You should not have a shadow discussion here, in which you hide behind your ideology, in order to avoid the problem. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I say it with concern: Regrettably, the Greens and the Liberals are the only ones here in this Parliament who still link the concept of solidarity with what he should be trying to be for the social well-being, to try for the people in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer]] You, Mrs Colleague, who are yelling down here should go out here and confess to that! And you, Mrs Silhavy, who make you here and express concern and complain that obviously Mrs. Collaborative of the Greens does not give you the value that is due you, because you make social laws, should be ashamed, because your party is systematically committed to disassemblying the social state massively. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The approval of Mr. Haider in the social field!]] I will support this thesis by means of a number of points. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Rodning permit!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In 1993, Hohes Haus, the legendary minister Hesoun spoke of care money as a quantum leap in social policy. In 1993, today's Minister of Social Affairs, Hostasch, said from the government bank that we had achieved the third pillar of social policy with care provision. In 1996, Minister Edlinger already said something else. He has more or less expressed this systematic disassembly of the social state, of social affairs in our country by saying: Well, we need to make some changes because the care money has a massive financial impact on the budget. – As a result, the care allowance has not been adjusted since 1996, stage 1 has been reduced by 20 percent, and pocket money has been reduced by 50 percent for residents of institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The sad thing about this whole thing is for me that the Minister of Finance has made it quite clear that there will be no valorization and therefore no appreciation of the purchasing power of these services, which we grant to the disabled and in need of care in our country. Meanwhile, there is a purchasing power loss of seven percent to be addressed. These are at least 1.2 billion schillings a year that are so to speak lost in purchasing power. What makes me even more strange to handle a little bit with your concept, Mrs Silhavy, is that you just don't want to understand the economic dimension behind this sector, that you don't want to understand that every year billions...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7874	Your speaking time is over. Come on. To the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7889	I would like to make the following appeal You are right: If you want to live the term "Solidarity", do not strip it, but join our project, and show in the future that you consider social policy to be what we want: trying to get the population in our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7919	Mr Haigermoser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7941	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy! I think we should hold back the excitement again, because at least one of this Parliament should have a... – The calls related to GAK and so on can really save yourself, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Do you think Mr Fischl?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This is a really serious issue, and we therefore appeal to the liberals to accept the legitimate concerns of the weakest in our society, namely the disabled. Ladies and gentlemen! This first reading on a request from Mrs Haidlmayr has now developed into a kind of general debate, and I believe that the idea of integration should also be incorporated into this contentious debate. It is very often referred to as the necessary integration at the workplace, and we liberals believe that, if it is only possible, it should be offered to the disabled a corresponding job. But in this respect, Mrs Silhavy, the Federation is more than smoky in many ministries. I believe that this should be held here once again. The economy, on the other hand, makes a great deal of sense in this area, if you also have to add that there are still some things to do. Let's take a look at the numbers! In Vienna alone, the unemployment rate for the disabled is 10 percent, and more than 30 000 disabled Austrians who are able to work are looking for a job. Of course – this has to be admitted – it is difficult to offer jobs for the disabled always, but we should work on it. It is therefore not, Mrs Silhavy, to understand that in a ministry that has been in your sphere of influence for decades and still stands, it is now going to be used to save even in the economy – under quotations – which leads to disabled jobs. I have received, like you, a letter from a company from Carinthia, Gunzer, in which a case is described, which aptly shows how you deal with the disabled, namely that you want to take it again, which is more than due to them. Precisely quoted from this letter: Depending on the degree of disability, the Federal Social Office has granted wage subsidies to disabled persons. In the past, and now that is the case. According to the Federal Social Office of Klagenfurt, these funds are, from now on, drastically reduced, most of them even abolished. This means that the last support for the employment of these people will also be given to businesses in the future. - Quote. Mrs Silhavy! Is that in your mind? – Mr Klima is always heard that Austria is the third or fourth largest country in Europe. I therefore ask you: Do we not have these few shillings left to support the disabled where the money belongs, namely at the workplace? A specific example is given in this letter mentioned earlier: A staff member employed by us has a degree of disability of 60 percent. The wage subsidy amounted to 2 400 S per month, would be reduced to 1,200 in 2000 and completely deleted in 2001.– End of quotations from this letter. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this, we are going here and saying that everything is a great pleasure, that the problem of the disabled is actually done anyway, that is already more than poor! You lack the seriousness of this problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If that is the case, if it is, then you can probably speak of the icy wind of the social cold. This is not the solidarity that the disabled deserve! The Sunday speeches from your mouth, Mrs. Silhavy – and we have heard this in the Styria election campaign – have once again led ad absurdum. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals recognize the need to save iron, but we believe that this has to be done in the right place. For example, one could save in bureaucracy. Mr Klima has said – he said Austria is the fourth-richest country – that it is now necessary to save costs in the social insurance institutions in the bureaucracy, for example by pooling to use synergies there. If that were the case, we would certainly have money for those measures that have been made in various debates today. Mrs Silhavy! They should listen and accompany us along this path! I think the disabled have more than deserved it. It is high time to get there, namely to provide proper support to the weakest in society.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8006	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8031	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's request at first reading is also a mission to us in connection with the last week's "General Day of Human Rights", because we find that people with disabilities cannot yet fully benefit from human rights, and especially because the introduction of the care allowance was actually stopped or was intended to be able to lead the self-determined life, life with personal rights in full, or at least to the extent that our society could afford to afford. The care allowance was an important financial step in this direction. But the financial side, the evaluation is only one side of our request, on the other hand, we are mainly concerned with the return of the original goal, namely the goal of expanding outpatient care, the goal of really being able to lead a self-determined life, a life at our own feet. How does reality look? – The reality is that most of the disabled are being cared for in homes because of the care money and that the homes have discovered the care money as a new financial resource. But that's a way to the dead end, that's the wrong way. However, it is also an abuse of this introduction, and we want to address this abuse with our request, in which we demand that outpatient care be extended altogether. There is currently a subset of outpatient care. It must be guaranteed around the clock. Then the step towards self-determined life is only possible for the disabled. We want the personal assistance service to be refinancing and that practically foreign persons are subject to social security legislation similar to relatives that the same standards are established. That is why we are against the fact that there is a difference in care. If you take care as an assistant practically for the first time, there should be no difference to someone who needs to solve a service relationship as an assistant. This sum of problems leads us to think here and today, especially in connection with the Day of Human Rights, of the problem of disability and the problem field, above all, of financial independence and the path to self-determined life.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8073	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 43/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (2 and 2 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Pension Law 1965, the Additional Fees Act, the Travel Fees Act 1955, the Procurement Law 1989, the Karenz Leave Money Act, the Richter Service Act, the Land Teacher Service Law 1984, the Land and Forestry Law of the State Law on Services 1985, the Land and Forestry Workers' Service Law, the Parent-Carenz Leave Act and the Federal Law BGBl. No. 298/1986 is amended (10 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8109	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr Gerhard Kurzmann was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8140	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The government template, which amends a number of laws, including the Civil Service Service Law, the Wage Law, the Contract Service Act and so on, regulates the remuneration of the public service for the year 2000. In order to take this forward immediately, the negotiators did not succeed in doing so. There is no new beginning to be seen, not even a reform approach can be seen. The result of this Novelle 2000 salary is thin. The rituals were the same as in every year: Before the end of the negotiations, the trade union threatened the service provider with fighting measures. Government representatives have also tried media-actively to turn their severance into the right light – perhaps their alleged severance. Some journalists were trying to represent all of this only as shadow boxes. Public servants' contributions will be increased by 1.5 percent in the coming year. What we criticise is above all the social imbalance which contains this increase. 1.5 percent added value for higher incomes naturally beat more to bee than 1.5 percent plus for weaker income groups. For Mr Hofrat or Mrs Senaterat, this scheme will continue to bring a greater financial advantage in the future than for the official or the cleaner. The saying "screw over a comb" or the well-known casting pot principle is formally pushing up there as a comparison. The main reason, ladies and gentlemen, why we liberals reject this novel is that the service of officials is not, in the first place, honoured the age of service. We liberals do not want to reward the annual rings, but we strive for a performance-related payment. I would like to present this to you on the basis of a very simple example. A department head in the finance management – let's go from 34 years of age – deserves gross 29 219 p. A 60-year-old department head receives gross 51 407 p. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What class of service?]] The reason for this difference – Mrs Colleague, that is more than 20 000 S; you know that as an official just as I do – are the well-known biennials. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: In which use group is he then?]] But if you look at the functional allowance of these two officials – please listen! – who do the same work, then you will understand why we think this system is unfair and anti-performance. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: In which use group?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: There is something like that for the journalists too!]] The young official shall receive a functional allowance of 3 236 S, the older person who does the same work, such as 21 270 S. That is incredible and in truth not to explain either. These are system-immanent weaknesses that you continue to write. We cannot and do not want to support you. The fact that the 300 S base amount has not been fully disregarded in the social aspects of the social aspect is clearly positive here. To increase pensions for officials and contract staff, which also includes 1. In January 2000, it is also critical to note that there is a lack of social balance. Pensions from 1 000 S to 7 000 S are only increased by 1.5 percent. Pensions from 7 000 S to 8 000 S, on the other hand, are increased linearly from 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent. This means that a pensioner who received gross in the month of 8 112 s received from 1st. In January 2000, the figure was 2.47 percent higher. His pension is thus 8 312 S; increase 200 S. In comparison, a pensioner who has so far received less, namely 6 000 S, must be satisfied or satisfied with 6 090 S. This is an indiscriminate curve for us, even if it is true that higher civil servants' pensions are only increased by 0.6 percent from a height of about 23 000 S grosso. I would like to take this opportunity to say something about the ASVG-pensions in connection with civil servants' pensions. A plus of 0.6 percent for ASVG-Rentner is certainly not a reputation for a party that has long been regarded as the workers' party in Austria. This small increase is precisely due to the inflation rate. We liberals have been skeptical of the so-called net adjustment, which was introduced for the first time in 1993. We have rightly feared that, over the entire reference period of the pension, it will lead to a loss of purchasing power over the asset income. The result: The pensioners who have contributed a lot to the construction of our country cannot participate in the economic development of Austria as they would deserve it. On the contrary: The amount of their pensions, based on a relatively good initial pension, falls more and more behind the assets over the decades. Finally, I mention only one comparison, which also shows how two measures are still being measured in the pension area. While ASVG-pensionists have to find out with an increase of 0.6 percent, for example, the members of the Stiermark Chamber of Workers approve of much higher degrees. In May, the Board of Directors of the Stiermark Chamber of Workers raised both the assets and the pensions of employees by 2.1 percent. And that's exactly what bothers people in this country: While the mass is inadequately burdened, there are niches in certain areas in which privileged minorities are still directed. You will understand that, for all these reasons, we must reject this template.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8222	Mr Pendl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8243	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the Government template 2 and 2 of the Supplements to the Service Law Novelle and to some important points. However, I would like to make some fundamental comments. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The public service in its variety of different services – from medical, social, educational and administrative to security – is doing excellent work. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, we have the power to limit the new and additional tasks and thus prevent the overload of public servants. The excellent quality of the services of public servants is also an important contribution to ensuring the economic location of Austria. I think we should not turn public officials into a game ball for battles, but thank them very much for their excellent services in the interests of the Austrians. I would like to express my personal thanks and thanks to my group to all colleagues in the public service here and today. All sectors of employment have the right to wage increases which, on the one hand, cover inflation and, on the other hand, ensure a fair share of economic growth. This must also apply to the public service. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Negotiations on the increase in the salaries of public servants of the asset for the year 2000 – we know when the regulation has been introduced, after which only the active colleagues are being negotiated and the increase for retired officials in the framework of the ASVG – have been successfully concluded between the public service trade union and the representatives of the Federal Government, in my view. My previous speaker has already mentioned the 1.5 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the very beginning, it was clear to us that this salary has to be accompanied by a social component. Similarly, it was clear that this salary conclusion with effect 1. January 2000 is expected to enter into force, to be limited to a year, and to increase allowances and additional fees by 1.5 percent. We have already discussed this in the committee, and I would like to say to my previous speaker here: These 300 S are not a base amount but a minimum amount. I have already pointed out in the Committee that in recent years we have applied all the techniques of salary agreements: Base amount, minimum amount and all mixed forms. However, I would like to mention only the results of the last four years, because the percentage is repeatedly mentioned: 1996: one single payment, 1997: one single payment, 1998: 466 S uniform, and last year: one percentage. Today a percentage with a minimum amount of 300 s has been decided. 300 s are up to 20 000 s. In view of this, there was nothing done here for small incomes, I do not understand, Mr President. In addition to the increase in allowances and additional fees, the minimum amount of 300 s could be increased for the participants in the qualification training. We all know that the increase for retirement officials has been co-negotiated within the framework of the ASVG, and we have also taken over in the public sector this social component, which exists in the ASVG sector. The various opinions could already be discussed in the Committee. I would like to refer once again to the two serious points which I believe are serious. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Club – unfortunately the colleagues are not here – should be mentioned again: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But two "insides"!]] In the last legislative period, we have decided the new VBG. We have also discussed this in the Committee, and the Secretary of State has informed all parties that there are talks and negotiations in this regard, and that the VBG – old I am now saying – and the VBG – should be reunited and put into a uniform, modern law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You all know that. And we must not confuse mere wage negotiations with negotiations on new schemes. But in recent years, in the law of pay, many of our divisions have been in motion with regard to a lot of things. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that a modern, new law could also be adopted in the last legislative period in the field of judges and prosecutors. This time, the aim was to increase our salaries as well as in other collective treaty areas in order to cover the inflation rate and to provide a fair share of economic growth for public servants. I believe that this salary statement, which includes this government template, is acceptable both from the point of view of the budget and from the point of view of colleagues. I would like to take the opportunity to thank you very much, Mr State Secretary, as well as your officials for the good but not always easy cooperation. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to wish all public servants, but also all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and, above all, parliamentarians, including public servants, and we can jointly contribute to improving their working conditions here – for the upcoming holidays. For the new century I wish above all health, happiness, success and well-being. Finally, I should like to say that my group is happy to give its approval to this salary conclusion with this social component.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8281	Mrs Dr Madeleine Petrovic has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8302	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I did not agree to this amendment in committee, and the Greens will not agree: on the one hand, because the social component of the scheme is too weak for us – I think, with a minimum amount of 300 S, it is not really the case that, in our view, the hierarchy of public service incomes is not really legalised – and on the other hand, because, even in the case of these relatively small and insignificant novels, we are constantly giving rise to a comprehensive debate on a uniform labour and social law, including public service. We know that there are time and again discussions about discrimination, the disadvantages of the workers towards the employees, and there is always the debate about the priority, to actual or apparent privileges of public service. I think that the appropriate answer to this is not to speed up from a minor and micro-adjustment to the next, but to examine the field of service rights, labour rights, social rights in general. We are moved to create a uniform right of service for all those who are self-employed, in accordance with the model of an improved employee law. But this also meant talking about the disadvantages and anachronisms in the public service, rather than constantly having a very negative debate on the public service, which then also harms the image of officials and certainly does not highlight the willingness of young people to take an interest in public service. On the one hand, officials are responsible for mistakes in legislation – but they only have to comply with the laws – but then, in daily application, they face criticism when laws prove difficult or unfulfilled. As has been said, there is always the debate about the very different regulations of pensions, but on the other hand the very low public service entrance salaries and also the negative aspects are not mentioned. That is why we think it is high time to talk about uniform labour and social law, and I think it is too short to talk about simply re-codification of contract workers' rights. I already know that this is a huge project, especially in Austria, but it must be possible to take steps in this direction at least once. Otherwise, I fear that a development will gain ever wider space, which I do not think is positive, namely that large parts will be distributed in the social and educational fields. It is then said that this area should become more efficient, but which would not be possible in the context of the administration of the sovereignty, and that is why private-law societies will be established and therefore, in my opinion, will be rescinded by central government tasks such as the labour market policy of a society. Whatever this may have to do with the effects, up to the speculation of money, this debate is being held, and I believe that this is a debate that neither the state nor the public service does well, let alone the labour market policy. I therefore believe that in a modern state, not only can the classical functions of the administration be and remain in the narrower sense of government, but it is precisely this social aspect that the concern of the state to achieve equal opportunities, to eliminate or at least to mitigate discrimination, to be or to become a classical part of state administration. In that sense I wish myself a strong state and also a public service, which has truly deeply internalized this service orientation. I think it was easier and better if we could reduce all these debates on the various pension schemes and differences between the various self-employed workers in order to devote more attention to the content. For then, I believe, social and educational policies and women's policies in Austria again have a stronger, better status, and that is the objective that we should actually pursue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8348	President. — The debate is closed. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8369	Mr President. High house! In my opinion, we need to separate the annual increase in references from an overall reform of the reference system. In my opinion, it is not possible to make genuine reforms in the framework of the annual reference reform. On the one hand, a conclusion should be reached that fits into the entire landscape of the CV accounts – I think we have demonstrated with 1.5 percent eye-to-face – on the other hand, it is necessary to present a degree which is, of course, acceptable and digestible for the budget. I believe that we have gone to the limits of what is possible here. They have addressed the question of the social component. We have tried to do a step in this direction with the minimum increase of 300 S. A further step would have been to raise the salaries even to a fixed amount. But I'm just giving one thing to consider: The lowest and highest salaries in the public service have become ever closer to each other over the last 30 years. I believe that this is also reasonable, but this setback from the lowest to the highest salary has moved from 1 to 13 in 1957 to 1 to 7 today. If the salaries are going further together, you also have to see that, of course, if someone tries to show performance when he wants to get to the next stage, the opportunities for development in the public service are getting smaller and, at least, not increasing the incentive for such careers. I believe that we need to discuss in principle whether there should be an even closer setback or whether this may also have other negative effects. That one tries to raise the lower salaries, we have shown that with at least 300 s. In the longer term, however, fixed amounts alone are probably not a solution to the public service. The second point is the question of reforming the reference system in itself. In the past year, contract staff law has succeeded in making a big step towards the approximation of systems, creating more flatter income processes – that is, young people earn more, but can no longer make such strong pay increases – it has succeeded in moving towards a single pension system, which also includes those working in the economy, and in addition to a pension fund, which is now starting from 1. It will be effective for January to agree. It has also succeeded in paying more for the activity itself, not only the training and the time spent in the public service. I believe that a reasonable next step in the fundamental reform of the reference can be to strengthen the application of this modern law in the field of teachers, universities, and thus to force modern processes of income and increased performance. It's clear to me: Their demand for a modern public service reference system is only to be underlined, as new challenges come to public service. It is really the backbone of an economy at a time when not only companies are competing with each other, but also entire countries are competing for new projects, for settlements and for employment. A modern service law and a modern reference system are crucial conditions for our country to succeed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8414	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Walter Tancsits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. I would, however, like to draw your attention to the fact that I must interrupt you at 3 p.m. because the urgent question comes to mind. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8442	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With these legislations, we essentially have to make the increases in the salary and pension for the Federal staff and the pensioners of the federal government. In essence, there are three reasons why we can agree and agree with these proposals by the EIA. First of all, it is a fiscally viable increase, second, this measure allows the participation of public servants in the general welfare development of self-employed workers in that country, and third, it is effectively reversed and corrected by a social component. In particular, these areas: From the permissible, the 1.5 percent conclusion is generally within the scope of those closures that have been achieved by approximately 1.9% by metallurgical and commercial workers, and due to its budgetary burden of around 2 billion precisely in that area which a carefully calculated service provider has probably already planned in advance. However, this conclusion could also be achieved because the representation of officials of the public service, a strong representation of interests, has negotiated with a view to the overall well-being, as it always does. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is proof that strong interests are active for the benefit of the whole, the company and, in this case, the Republic of Austria. Secondly, on the overall development of salaries in the field of self-employed workers, in the participation of public servants in the development of prosperity: 1.5 percent, but also a minimum increase of 300 S. This means a de facto increase of 2 percentage points for income up to about 20 000 S gross per month. Only those incomes above – that is, more than 20 000 S gross per month – will be increased by 1.5 per cent, which means an average of about 1.6 per cent points. – This increases the remuneration of officials and the salary of contract staff and takes account of the social component. I also do not think that the service component is too short, because we are not only changing the remuneration, but also, in this case, for good reasons, the supplementary allowance law. That is to say, those allowances, by which the benefit is paid in particular, are taken into account in this increase. I would also like to deal with the question of the pensioners of the Federal Government or the public service. In increasing their pensions, we have focussed above all on the increases following the ASVG, which shows that there is no inequality between the active public officials or public servants in retirement and other pensioners. It also finds the social component in the form of an increase by a base amount. This is particularly significant in the area of the amount of compensation and the slightly higher areas, therefore, than in the areas below, because an individual pension is to be measured at the level of the compensation allowance and all the examples below are mathematical examples, because in this case, our system of compensation allowances cannot be independent individual pensions. I do not understand why this increase in salary for officials and contract staff does not at the same time involve a fundamental debate on the remuneration systems of the public service, or a uniform labour and social law. First of all, I do not believe that our public servants should not and must not give up their salary increase, because there is obviously a need for such a debate, but secondly I do not think that it is right in terms of content to run completely uneven situations over a comb. Of course, the development of prosperity is to be shared equally for all. Therefore, officials, contract staff and other officials of the public service receive a salary increase in accordance with the same classification. However, there are uneven systems where they are about uneven activities, and where our rule of law needs to be borne by a particularly protected and particularly committed professional official. We would therefore like to agree with this proposal because it represents progress for our public servants and because our commitment to the slender but strong state is also linked to the commitment that our officials and contract staff receive a proper remuneration because they are the backbone of such a strong state.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8504	I would now like to speak in principle, Mr Magistrate. Karl Schweitzergelangen. But since we are interrupting this item in 2 minutes for the urgent question, I interrupt the meeting until 3 p.m. and then call the urgent ones.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8531	It's 3:00. I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Gilbert Trattner and comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning Cassastrophe (158/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8568	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 158/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8850	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Trattner is the first questioner to justify the request, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8870	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, you now have the opportunity to present your structural measures to eliminate the budget deficit after you had not been able to deliver your opinion in the current hour in your 10 minutes or 5 minutes in the morning. First of all, however, I must focus on how the budget deficits or public taxes have developed over the last ten years. The budget deficits or public levies have developed over the last ten years in the way that we have always been able to talk about a revenue-side budgetary policy and a budgetary policy on the expenditure side has been rather difficult to feel. The wage tax has increased from 1989 to 1999 from 188 billion to 198 billion schilling, the income tax from 31 billion to 42 billion, the interest income tax from 3 billion to 25 billion and the corporate tax from 14 billion to 48 billion schilling. Overall, tax revenue has increased from 387 billion to 681 billion schilling during this period. At the same time as these increased revenue or increased taxes, the budget deficit has also greatly increased, especially in the years when the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democrats formed a Federal Government, namely from 1986 to 1995. In this period, the budget deficit or government debt has not been managed in any way. Mr Finanzminister! You know the reports of the Wifo, you also know the reports of the experts in economic research, who have made it quite clear and specific with regard to the structural measures, with regard to their so-called structural measures, or with regard to the load packages of the Federal Government: The budget success you have achieved is due only to one-off effects. However, it will be necessary in the following years to implement structural measures in order to reduce the budget deficit. This is our criticism: You have not adopted these measures, and you are still not ready to put them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Walterskirchen of the Wifo, who is certainly not a friend of the Freedom Party, said, for example, that the budgetary situation was not particularly rosy, and that further consolidation steps were absolutely necessary. Although the Austrian National Bank praises the fact that certain things have been achieved, it also notes that substantial substantial consolidation measures have not been implemented, but are absolutely necessary. You have simply ignored these objections and trusted that growth will be higher than forecast and that you will be able to steal from the budget threshold with one-time measures or one-time effects. You will now be caught up by the harsh reality because you have pursued a budget policy that has not addressed the structural problems. In the current hour, they have repeatedly pointed out that structural measures should be implemented for the budget. You have spoken about it for 10 minutes and 5 minutes today, but you have not mentioned any structural budget measure here in the House, which we Liberals had very much waited for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it: No ideas!]] It is also the criticism of us liberals as an opposition party – and obviously this also applies to your government partner – that we get budget figures that do not correspond to the current data. As an opposition party, we expect us to have concrete budget figures here in the House, so that we can effectively know what it is about the state budget, how high the interest payments will be in the coming years and how high the real debt of the federal budget are. In this area a lot of things are hidden. A simple point about this accusation: The Federation has recently become a miserable payer. You have increasingly delayed the settlement of the debts, the liabilities you have made to the suppliers over time. You pay more and more sluggish! You can see that in the accounts. However, you are also responsible for complying with the terms of payment to the supplier. Because of your bad payment morals Instead, they have driven many entrepreneurs into bankruptcy in Austria, because you have often paid too late. This is always seen in the so-called accounts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have always accused us of liberties: If we were to go to the government, we would put in place some one-time measures to clean up the budget in the short term, which would be only one-off effects, and the case would be done. – That’s exactly what we want you to do: that you want to achieve something with one-time measures or one-time effects, which would only be important for the Austrian economy if it were to work on a sustainable basis. I quote a few simple examples of this. They have the note bank law changed and in 1997 alone they have been cashing from the Oesterreichische Nationalbank in total 18.5 billion schilling, which is by 10 billion schilling more than in the year before. They settle tax receipts from the Austrian taxpayers with you and book these tax assets as tax revenue – that was another 15 billion schilling. They're running two years of free money – bringing another 6 billion schilling. They increase income tax or corporate tax prepayments – that was another 3 billion schilling. What did you do with the money? . You have only drawn up the budget so that you can reach the Maastricht criteria, but you have not put in place economic policy measures, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Where is the Minister of Finance at all?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He needs to inform himself quickly!]] Federal Minister! We from the Group of the Party of European Socialists have repeatedly made the proposal: If we privatize, if we do not use necessary reserves from the Austrian National Bank, then we want to put in place structural measures with the money, then we want to launch a tax reform that benefits the Austrian population in a sustainable way. On the other hand, you, Mr. Finanzminister, have exclusively privatized – and the Federal Government has kept it that way before your time – to stop budget holes. No measures have been taken to reinvest part of the proceeds. We have also repeatedly proposed that an inventory of Austrian federal assets should finally be taken up in order to see what is necessary and what is not necessary. The non-necessary federal assets should be sold and 50 percent of the proceeds should be used to reduce public debt and 50 percent to infrastructural measures in order to re-introduce reinvestment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are not at all ready to think about the things we should be changing in Austria so that we can get the whole thing back in motion. But you have seen exactly what measures were wrong: It was all the wrong measures to be taken in the current tax packages at the expense of the population. It is not two thirds that have been saved in expenditure and one third have been saved over tax increases, but it has happened exactly the opposite! The consequence of the whole was the following: We are in Europe with regard to economic growth in the back. Within the two years of the load package, the high tax burden has increased from 170 billion schilling to 230 billion schilling. There is obviously a psychological pressure: If today the control screw is drawn or the tax rate becomes too high, then everyone is looking for any way to avoid the tax burden. We told you again and again: Enter a simple, honest tax system! Clear all exceptions! Reduce the tax rate! Then we achieve greater tax honesty, higher tax revenue, and taxpayers would not be under pressure to avoid the tax, but would be willing to declare openly and honestly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then there would be a greater tax-honority, and we would have more employees. But what did you do? – You have taken exactly opposite measures! Of course, these have also led to the problem of pensions, which is that you have hidden unemployed in the early pension. Mr Gaugg will go into it in detail. The problem is that we do not get under control of this government budget because you want to stick to the existing structures and simply do not go away from finally introducing reform measures. We therefore give you a few examples of how to implement reforms. First of all, let us think of the whole package of subsidies: 60 billion schillings are awarded annually in Austria! – I find it primitive when the Burgenische ÖVP-Obmann Jellasitz says: The Freedom Party intends to cut subsidies by 50 percent and thus harm agriculture. In these 60 billion Schilling subsidies, so and so many subsidies go to associations or companies that are far from fulfilling the purpose for which they came two years ago. The money is just being thrown out! That's one of the spasms. You can save one third of these subsidies without a doubt! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – We can talk about it afterwards. The second area concerns the promotion of housing: This area devours a total of 30 billion schilling from the federal budget. Of these, 24 billion are dedicated housing promotions, and 6 billion have been drawn out of commitment at the time to use the money for other measures. These funds have not been used for investment, you know very well, but they have reduced the budget deficits in the countries! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: There are not 6 billion, but 8 billion!]] – In the meantime it's already 8 billion, then it's still 6 billion. But you can make more comments on this. Mr Finanzminister! Just think about how to change this support system for housing development! Get away from the so-called object promotion, go to the pure subject promotion! This is, of course, only in agreement with the financial balance with the countries. Get away from the direct loans! On the basis of the guidelines, make sure that individual persons who are eligible as a subject according to income or family size receive an interest subsidy and that all these grants are processed through a bank or various banks. This would eliminate a huge administrative system as well as all the direct loans that the federal government has to make to the countries. In this way, a beautiful package would be free for the League. Think about it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Third area: Mr Finanzminister! We have a large number of funds in Austria. For example, we also have the ERP funds. You know the ERP fund very well? I know the ERP fund very well too! It is a fund with well over 30 billion Schilling Dotation. You know very well: 90 percent of these funds receive large enterprises, partly indirectly semi-stated. In any case, such businesses will receive these funds, which would without a doubt have the opportunity to get the money on the international capital market. The so-called small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other hand, receive only 10 percent of these funds. You could easily reduce these funds by providing funding only to those companies that are actually eligible for funding, for example in regional policy or in innovation technologies, in technology areas. In this way you could reduce the fund by half! Then you would have a greater efficiency there and would again have freed funds for other investments to be made by the Federal Government in order to finally recover its residues in the area of infrastructure investment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This has only once been proposals concerning three areas. Mr Finanzminister! I also do not understand why you are still opposed to simplifying the tax system. We have a tax system in Austria, which is so complicated that no one knows each other! I am just thinking of the statement made by Dr. Bruckner, who was after all the chairman of the Tax Reform Commission. He has said that it is time and again necessary to get official opinions so that you can find yourself in the entire tax legislation at all. You can certainly remember that in Austria we once had a basic acquisition tax in the order of 8 percent. There were a number of exceptions for workers' residences, first residences and more. Professions were set up, it was disputed, it was called, the administration was strained. The tax rate was high, but the revenue was relatively low. At that time they said: Get away with the exceptions! We lower the tax rate from 8 percent to 3.5 percent. – Now the exceptions are gone, there are no more vocations, and there has even been a higher tax revenue! This is a simple example! [[Abg. Auer: Who did that?]] If the good ideas come from the government, then everything is okay, but why don't you stick to these good ideas? You can do it on this one. Ideas continue to follow up and enforce this in the form of the direct tax on income tax and wage tax! What sense does it make when the Socialists say over and over again that the tax model – we can also call it flat tax – is socially unbearable because it discriminates against small and medium-sized incomes? – Read the ads and see the ads of Connect Austria: There is, for example, a centrifugal stake of 100 000 S, which allows for losses of 175 percent. And if someone buys 600 000 S of the command share, he gets 200 percent. You can buy it, but the small and medium-sized "hackler" can't buy it! Who's there for now? - They're there for the big ones! We're here for the little ones! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has also shown itself during the last elections who is there for who. We are in favour of the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes, so that they can gain a little more freedom, have more design opportunities and not always depend on the so-called federal government funding stop. It seems to me pretty slow as if you really don't want to free these people. Rather, you want dependants! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Yes! Very right!]] You want dependency! They want people to be taxed high and go with a low income to this and that place and act as a bitter until it is decided: If one is a red or a black one, then in one federal state he will get it and in another federal country of that one. But if he's a bluer, he can go. – That’s how it happens, and it just doesn’t work! That's not what we're fighting! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Objection to ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – There are enough examples for this. That's the problem. And more and more people have recognized what the liberals stand for, for which the liberals stand for in family policy, in tax policy and in financial policy. We want to free citizens with a tax system that is simple and that guarantees people a higher available income in the wallet more than that of the former German government from red and black. That is what we stand for, and that is also the result of our election. Our election success is also due to the fact that we always tell people what is going on and what is not going on. You can always defend yourself. You'll always find excuses about why something doesn't work! You will find excuses as to why the child care check is not going, you will find excuses for why the flat tax is not possible, and you will find excuses for why you do not want to provide people with higher income for their labour force! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] There are no proposals from you that read: That is how it goes for a long time, and so we can help the Austrian population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! They promised everything possible in the election campaign and before. You said: There is no problem with the tax reform at all! We don't need a third savings package! ==References== In July 1998, the APA reported: "Finance Minister Rudolf Edlinger assured the National Council on Wednesday afternoon that the tax reform planned for 2000 will take place without further savings packages." - Quote. Now we reduce the discretion expenditure by 20 percent. I would like to hear from you: How does that look in your area? In your I believe that the area is about a reduction in discretion expenditure by 1.2 billion schilling. I have a question: Then don't you heat the financial offices from January to March? Do people have to sit there with the Anorak? Do teachers and students have to freeze in schools? Where do you want to save that? We want to see concrete measures! Above all, not only are we annoyed, but also those in the Federal Government who are responsible for the fact that you have dealt with these things. They did not face colleagues and said: Please look for a savings potential in your resort, check where you can save where you can change, but you have just decided. You said: Examining expenditure is reduced by 20 percent. And you said that only because you had Brussels knocked your fingers. Brussels has knocked your fingers on you, quite massively and rightly! The budget target that you have set yourself, i.e. 1.4 percent budget deficit, in 2003 or in 2002, is not a very high target anyway! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: 2002!]] That was not a very high goal. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: But ambitious!]] They should achieve certain objectives, as is the Stability and Growth Pact. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] For it is not only about achieving the convergence criteria – the 3% budget deficit of gross domestic product – but also about having a balanced budget or working with surpluses. But you are far away from that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9113	In reply to the question, Mr Rudolf Edlinger, Federal Minister for Finance, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9140	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already declared this morning, during the current hour, that it is relatively important to discuss the framework conditions for the budgetary policy of the next four years, of course, also in public. I have pointed out that from 1996 to 1999, Austria - which is to be stated clearly - has complied with the budgetary consolidation rate it has carried out itself. We have managed to halve the budget deficit more than half. We have thus made it possible to enter economic and monetary union. We have thus also achieved those conditions which are suitable for creating a corresponding economic environment – low inflation, low interest rates – which is ultimately also necessary for one to act on economic policy. These consolidation results are also internationally recognised. I am well aware that everyone in the same report reads out those things he wants to read and needs in support of his own argumentation. This morning, someone – I am no longer quite sure who it was – quoted the 1998 OECD report, namely the 1997 and 1998 assessments, and pointed to those aspects in the second part of the report, where there is still a significant need for consolidation in the coming years. – There is no doubt about this either, that has never been acquitted. With regard to the same OECD report you quoted, however, the "New Zurich Newspaper", which is known for not deliberately qualifying Austrian politics positively, is also entitled "New Zurich Newspaper". June 1999 – I quote –: "Lob der OECD für Österreichs Wirtschaftspolitik. Structural reforms that have been successful." - Quote. You might want to read this article. It contains a brief description of the structural reforms which have been made and in which one must continue. I want to save myself now to read this article to you. I would just like to tell you that, for example, the OECD summarizes in the report – and this is rightly what the "New Zurich newspaper" writes – that this has also created a "larger financial space" for the Republic of Austria. I do not want to say that the OECD has exclusively praised us. I would just like to say the correctness in this respect that the OECD has identified as a recognised, important overall economic policy organisation that Austria has pursued a successful consolidation policy in recent years. It would be nice if you took note of this! I say – and never did – that the path of fiscal consolidation in Austria has not yet been completed. It has always been clear to me, therefore, that the next federal government, which has to prepare the budgets from 2000 to about 2003, must make great efforts to reduce the total national budget deficit, which is about 2.2 percent in 1999, to 1.7 percent in 2000. In the next phase, therefore, Mr Mag, as you have described it, will be. Trattner – enormous efforts are required. I would like to point out that this policy is very feasible, but it needs some conditions. Before starting the economy, a medium-term budget forecast must also specify the principles to be developed in relation to budgetary policies. I do not want to say that quite clearly, although I would also like to take note of the fact that I am replying to the role of provisional finance ministers here today. That is why those positions I take here today are those that I represent personally and which may not lead to any accreditation or lead to them only in the context of discussions. As I see it, the budget is under control. I believe that this task can be achieved from a number of points of view. The first condition is that in the coming years too, there will be extreme savings in public resources. Secondly, I think it is equally important that the budget is not burdened by additional expenditure unless it also provides for clear and concrete counter-financing measures, either to an innovative extent through additional savings or – that is not my proposal – through revenue adaptation. Thirdly, of course, the structural reforms started must also be continued consistently. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the urgent question, a agenda item has just been interrupted, whose content is to be considered as a measure in the field of structural change. Because what we intend to do in the personnel sector in the next few years is not simply a mathematical reduction in the number of staff. Rather, we want to make a mathematical requirement that will ultimately also lead to structural changes in the administrative processes. Otherwise – with such a rapid reduction also the number of staff – public administration simply cannot work! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is important to talk about these issues concerning structural reform in public service, structural reform in social transfers. I will make a few comments on this. – That is, I say it again, my personal opinion on it. I do not want to create additional political irritations. But I was also questioned as a person by the urgent inquiry. That's how I at least see it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thanked myself this morning for asking the urgent question because it gives me the opportunity to take a position over the five-minute period on this very difficult problem. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are waiting for the presentation of concrete measures!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Finally start!]] I'd like to tell you: It is the right of the opposition to get answers to questions that it cannot answer itself when it comes to urgent questions. That's very simple and right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But just as I did with extreme discipline and with only two very brief suggestions, Mr Mag. Trattner has listened carefully, you too must now take the time and listen to how I address the answer to the question you have asked. And I would like to make a few comments. I would like to say that I am very surprised that you have formulated the question as well as argued in your explanatory statement as you have done. It really surprises me that the liberals are making a urgent request to the budget, as it is obvious – you can understand at any time by means of appropriate documents and public statements in the past – that in the last election campaign it was precisely the demands of the liberals who had caused significant irritations in the public budget. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: We also made cover proposals!]] I am thinking about the original structure of the children's check: That would have been loosely 40 billion schilling after what was on the poster and was then revised several times! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I also think about the flat tax or that you want to delete the municipal tax. All of this had a gap between revenue and expenditure in the enormous dimension of far more than 100 billion schilling. This would necessarily lead to massive cuts in social policy reality and economic reality in our country, and I simply do not want to do so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Even Chancellor climate doesn't believe you anymore!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I just said that, Mr Mag. Trattner, because you too, in the reasoning of your request, have repeatedly resorted to arguments and comments that have fallen in the election campaign. And I really want to say clearly that there was hardly anyone who did that. Sometimes it was not so unproblematic for my position and my political party. Because it was I who said: Please don't promise more than you can keep! On the other hand, the election promises that you have just made, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, were very easy Legion! But there is no chance at all to realize such promises, either politically or fiscally! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true!]] Excuse me: In Carinthia this would have to be since 1. ==References====External links==* Official website April is already over. And I suppose it wasn't a joke when you called that date! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I shall now try to express my views on the 33 questions as specific as possible and, as part of the answer to these questions, to some of them, as I think, quite structural measures. But I will sum up some of these questions. Questions 1 and 2: It is a well-known ritual, as I believe, that before negotiations of every budget there are errors, which will then be reduced to a reasonable extent in the course of these negotiations. This is the meaning of budgetary negotiations, and it is therefore not at all unusual that there is such an adjustment requirement for the 2000 budget and also for the following years. It will therefore be the responsibility of the new Federal Government to make these adjustments or, in other words, to make those political decisions that are necessary – a budget is the figures expressed by the political will of a federal government – so that a budget can be presented at the end, which also corresponds to the Stability Pact and the stability goals. Indeed, the sizes quoted by you will result from 2003 if, on the one hand, there are no additional burdens on the Federal budget and, on the other hand, the expenditure dynamics that exist and, on the other hand, that of Mr Mag. Thanks to Trattner, the additional consolidation target mentioned here is achieved, which we have set by 2002 at 1.4 percent – 1.9 federal budget, and I assume that the new Federal Government will, of course, also look forward to a further deficit reduction for 2003. Question 3: All my previous budgets have been kept. In fact, I have always lowered the deficit for the respective year, and I am going to do so – and I would like to say this to you today – for the year 1999. Therefore, expenditure from the budgets correctly implemented in the past cannot be the cause of future adaptation requirements! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Questions 4 and 5: The fact that all the budgets of recent years – as I have already mentioned – have taken under the budget deficit that has been estimated is a sign of a successful consolidation of the Federal Budget, which can benefit both the Social Democratic Party of Austria and the Austrian People's Party, both of which bear the political responsibility for this consolidation course. Undoubtedly, the budgetary consolidation rate will continue in the interests of maintaining Austrian stability policy, so that the budget does not run out of the grid, as you fear. On question 6: As far as the deficit value of 2.6 percent quoted by you is concerned, it corresponds to the forecasts that have been drawn up by different sides in recent months and have dealt with the question of what happens to the budget when the consolidation rate is left. I have already said this morning that it is not quite fair to make comparisons with those European countries that held, for example, the budget deficit that the Republic of Austria has in 1999 and then claim that these countries will continue to reduce the budget deficit, while Austria is almost beyond good and bad at 2.6 percent. I said this morning – and repeat that – that all these countries – Germany, Italy, France, were the three large ones that are located about where we are – their federal estimates for the year 2000 in the Federal Governments – and, as I believe, in two countries, also in the parliaments – have already decided, while in Austria there is no estimate for the year 2000, so that this forecast is based on bills or further calculations of the legal status. As I have already mentioned, I assume that, in the foreseeable future, our country will also have a federal government that is of its own interest and able to implement those structural measures that are in line with the budget objective of our stability programme. Questions 7 to 16: I assume that the continuation of successful Austrian fiscal consolidation is to a large extent – and I am really saying this in knowledge of the scope of what this means – by means of expenditure on the side of measures and that an increase in the tax rate for me should be invited to continue to be finance ministers does not come into question. I would like to say that clearly. I think that the following principles are essential for the measures to achieve these objectives: First: Additional requests for the budget – and I repeat what I have already said in the introduction – can only be fulfilled if concrete counter-financing is carried out in any way, with the expenditure side taking place. Secondly, Growth – which is a crucial objective – is to be significantly below that of the nominal gross domestic product. At the same time, however, the internal dynamics of expenditure growth and the internal dynamics of revenue growth must also come into a parallelity to be compared. Thirdly, For the 2000 budget, the 1999 budget framework will have to be the basis, with budgetary benchmarks for each department ensuring compliance with the budget target. I assume that we will have a budget when it comes to realism, which can become legally effective at the earliest by June 2000 – I hope so – so that it will, of course, be difficult to put those necessary measures in such a way that they will also lead to the budgetary effect that we need in six months. Fourth: The 2001 to 2003 budgets will include the results of the financial compensation that will lead to the year 2000, and I have to say quite clearly that I cannot imagine that one of the local authorities is causing or rehabilitating the other. That doesn't matter either. We have to present public finances to the European organisations, but also to the international financial and capital markets. Therefore, it is best to shift the burden from the federal government to the countries to improve the sensitivity of the Federal Minister of Finance – and vice versa, the sensitivity of the national financial referees – but this would not change the Austrian situation. It is important, however, that, in the course of the financial compensatory negotiations, the performance of tasks should, of course, be made more efficient and effective, and that the pooling of tasks and expenditure should also be carried out, for example among teachers. I do not, I believe, reveal a secret if I remind you that, as then President of the national finance conference, I have resisted the offer of the then Minister of Finance Viktor Klima to take over the teachers from financial competence. In this respect, we will have to rise with strong argumentation. But I would like to say the following: It has changed over 1996: There is now the consultation mechanism which prevents, for example, the Federal Government from adopting laws, whose costs are then to be paid by the countries on the basis of the transfer of competence – for example, concerning state teachers, federal roads and similar changes; and I believe that they also have an impact on the internal structures of the federal budget. Fifth, you open a bottle In addition to the financial compensation, the performance of the public hand, especially the federal government, will have to be checked for its expediency. I am specifically concerned with the streamlining of the tasks to be carried out by the departments and the elimination of double-tracks and the like. It is necessary to continue the distributions with covert federal subsidies in order to make business considerations more effective in parts of the Federal Government, with an even greater use of the flexibilisation clause to address the implementation of the budgets with special sparingness. However, I also say quite clearly that I do not think it useful – personally not to make sense – to use existing surpluses in individual segments of the federal government's public funds for new expenditure instead of making use of them useful for budget consolidation or for reducing additional wage costs. I am confirmed by many experts, not least by the Advisory Board on Social and Economic Affairs in this position. Seventeenths: A very important point concerns the so-called safety of social transfers. In this respect, some have happened, as shown by the recent study of the Wifo, which reports on the distribution effects of family support, that the 1998 family package has achieved a great deal of assistance to the socially weaker families and that many people have been able to emancipate near the so-called poverty line. It must remain the same. But it is also the question to ask – this is at least legitimate – whether it is actually in the sense of success – this study authorizes us to ask this question – that, as this study shows, significant sections of family support benefit the third with the highest income. This is at least to be questioned when it comes to achieving reliability, away from the principle of foundry and to the practicability of the State, to providing targeted assistance to those who really need it. I believe that in these areas we must help those who need it, and not those who want it. I mean, that's a very important political definition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say quite clearly, on this point, because this is a specific case: As far as the care allowance you have referred to is concerned, many thousands of people in need are particularly sensitive in this regard. I believe that there could be an income reduction in the effects of unsolicited effects, i.e. the removal of disabled people from their jobs. It is therefore necessary to act with greater sensitivity in this area if we are to make any changes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes or no? Is there any change or not?]] I locate those areas, and I give you a very clear indication of the direction in which I can move. But you confuse me with the future Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I may be a member of the future Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Tell me how you would do it!]] I represent my position here, and I think it is quite clear from the tendency to see in which direction this can go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: But you are already Minister of Finance!]] I am the current Finance Minister, who does not intend to present a budget, which has been clearly expressed, and who cannot present a budget at all, because he is a member of a provisional Federal Government. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you will still know what is necessary!]] I very much hope that we will soon have a government for the next four years, and then these issues will also be discussed very specifically. [[Abg. Scheibner:... until 2003 has gone! Incredible!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Just not! They're not answering her!]] [[Call the liberals: They only pretend to answer!]] – Dear Mr Klubobmann! You have formulated questions to me, and I answer. It is my job to answer questions the way I think it is. [[Abg. Scheibner: But concrete answers!]] I am not here to satisfy you, but to explain my point of view. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] On the question 17:... – I answer, I will answer. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Have you ever heard of the right to interpolate? That's what you should do!]] – Yes, but excuse me, honourable Member: If you ask a question and wish for a certain answer at the same time, you do not need to ask me. Then Reply You're yourself. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] But thank God there are widely different opinions between me and the applicants, and I am very proud of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] If Mr President and the Freedom Party are allowed to do so, I shall now turn to the answer to Question No 17. [[New calls and unrest with the liberals.]] I would like to say to question 17 that there is no real reason for a panic because of the future of old age insurance. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You have not answered any question!]] Nevertheless, it is necessary – and I would like to say that clearly – to keep track of the system continuously and adapt it to current developments. The area of pension insurance is a core area of our state and has a direct impact on the living situation of large parts of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Long-term forecasts mainly assume that overall social prosperity will continue to increase in Austria, and on this basis the financial viability of pensions should also be given. I therefore believe that growth in the economy and the increase in the employment rate are essential prerequisites for ensuring that pension financing can continue in the future. Therefore, employment policy and offensive measures with a view to increasing employment are the most active way to guarantee pensions for older people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question 18: According to the opinion of the Advisory Council for Pensions and Pension Adjustments concerning the determination of the adjustment factor for the year 2000, the development of the Federal Pensions Insurance Fund for the years mentioned in your request is as follows: 1990: 43.8 billion Schilling, 1995: 52.3 billion Schilling, 1998: 56.8 billion Schilling, forecast for 2003: 83.1 billion schilling. Questions 19 and 20: On the basis of the success calculation up to and including 3. In the quarter of 1999, health insurance is confident of stabilising the end of 1999 with 3 billion schilling. In principle, the management and self-management of health insurance are called upon to make proposals on how this deficit can be addressed. From my point of view, attention will be given to two things: Firstly, health savings should not affect the quality of health care, and secondly, increases in contributions should be avoided not only in view of Austria's additional labour costs position in the EU comparison, but also in terms of tax revenue reduction. I assume that self-employment and those responsible will take appropriate action. On question 21: The promotion of housing – then Mr Mag. Trattner – is known to fall into the competence of the countries. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But they get a covenant grant for God's sake!]] - But I'm sorry, I haven't been that far yet. They will not dispute that housing promotion falls within the competence of the countries. It falls within the competence of the countries, and it is also the design of the laws since 1987 in the responsibility of the federal states. This means that any structure – in what way object and subject promotions behave together – falls within the competence of the federal states, since there is no overarching competence of the federal government at all. However, I am convinced – and I will also proceed accordingly – that the issue of housing development has to be a very important issue in the financial compensatory negotiations. I would like to make sure that there is no difference in figures – because we are a few times apart in terms of figures, and I believe that these are more misinterpretations – to maintain the following: Residential development currently comprises around 32 billion Schilling in the 1999 budget, 24.5 billion of which are dedicated funds. These have remained unchanged since the last financial compensation. The increases resulting from the dynamic financing of the housing fund – some of which are additional labour costs, some of which are from other Community federal contributions in the form of pre-disbursements – have a dynamic of almost 2 billion schilling per anno. This means, however, that in 1999 and 2000 almost 10 billion – not entirely, 9.4 billion according to the estimate – will not be allocated to the countries under the title of housing development – according to a different distribution key from the intended funds. It will not be easy to talk to the countries about a new structure of housing development. I believe that a subject promotion would actually be adequate for the fight against the foundry principle. On the other hand, we need to know, of course, that object promotions involve very long-term financing demands, so that a change in such a system is not feasible at once and, on the other hand, is not possible from the financial engineering side. However, I will try – and I very much hope that the Members of the House will then feel that they are federal politicians – to come to terms with countries other than the current regulations in the area of housing promotion with the countries. I am speaking to all those who have already been in the countryside. When I look into the hall like that, I see a lot of mild smiles, and some may think they've seen bigger dwarfs than the Minister of Finance who's going to take something away from the countries. – But you will be allowed to try with very good arguments, perhaps to get parts free for other uses. On the question 22: As I would like to follow all the suggestions on the sensible use of means of taxation, I have followed Mr Kramer's comments with great interest. At the same time, however, I would like to say that Professor Kramer's determined potential for savings are mathematical examples. This is not so difficult for itself. It is true that we spend more on administration by a percentage point of GDP than the EU average. Since a percentage point is around 25 billion schilling – it's a little more – it accounts for 25 billion. The Germans spend by 2 percent less. 2 percent are 50 billion, so this is the mathematically determined savings potential. However, I have, of course, since such an important personality as the director of the Wifo makes a public proposal to draw up, without delay, a concept which shows the way forward by the end of the year, namely what measures the Republic of Austria would have to take in order to actually reduce the administrative costs, e.g. according to the German model or according to the EU average. I know a lot of proposals. Only today has the President of the Court of Auditors made a proposal. He said, for example, that the second local authority had to be questioned. This is an extremely academic proposal, however, which I do not commit politically to repeat here for good reasons. On the question 23: Yesterday, the Council of Ministers decided on the reception scheme for the Federal Staff for the year 2000. The aim is to reduce the number of staff in the Federal Service by about 2,000 by non-retirement. Each ministry is therefore required to simplify the administrative procedures, as has been said. For my area of responsibility – and I say this very clearly – I have just started, together with the staff representatives, the change from the execution bureaucracy to effective administration. The Financial 2001 programme, which has been drawn up largely in consensus with the staff, will allow more organizational improvements, the reduction of double track, the use of new IT procedures and the like, so that we – and I really want to do so – will no longer occupy around 1000 planning posts of a total of 1,500 people who will retire by 2005. However, how difficult such organizational measures are, I would just like to remind those who can still remember how difficult it was for me to implement, for example, the dissolution of a single financial office, that of Vienna environment, which was coherent. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Question 24: In this respect, I am referring to the long-term nature underlying the idea of new officials. Of course, the budgetary consequences of setting new officials under the ASVG depend on a number of factors, not least on the number of future Pragmatizations. Under the same conditions – this is now a model – the first step is to reduce revenue in the medium to long term, if you give the officials into the ASVG, and only in the long term positive budgetary effects. Nevertheless, I support these thoughts on the basis of harmonisation, on the basis of social balance and indeed on account of the long-term nature of the matter, since it is not now in the profession. On questions 25 and 26: I would like to point out that there are no extra-budget debt of the federal government. However, if you have referred to your question the long-term liabilities of the German Federal Special Financing Companies – which I accept – I can point out that you find these finely clean in the report on the financial debt of the Federal Government on page 68. I would suggest, Mr Mag. Trattner to read there. Question 27, Privatisation potential: In my opinion – but I admit that this is my subjective opinion – there is no really meaningful investigation into the actual privatisation potential of the federal government, since the selling price to be achieved of course always depends on the objective of privatising the individual Unit in its respective form and also depending on the respective market conditions, which vary over time. A recently published study – I suppose that you meant it – that of Professor Schneider of the University of Linz, as well as those prepared by Professor Lehner of the Wifo a year earlier, I believe provide very useful suggestions, but not clearly understandable indications of the privatisation potential. However, this is not so apodically claimed in these studies. So I know her and register her. There are currently legal privatisation orders to ÖIAG concerning the ATW, the Dorotheum and the state printing company. However, I do not want to fail to point out that – and this is my personal opinion in turn – I consider a core shareholder's role for ÖIAG to be wise in the long-term security of the economic location. I repeat: This is my personal opinion, however, which I intend to introduce. On questions 28 to 31, I would like to point out that the reduction of discretionary expenditure in the past has been one of the measures to manage budgets. I think I have already explained this motive this morning and I would like to save it now. You can read in the minutes how I presented the function of the discretionary expenditure of the provisional budget as well as the possibilities of flexibility in the individual department. On question 32: Dear Mr. Magister Trattner! This is really a serious question, because we have a constant controversy about the exact figures in this regard. I assume that the financial markets expect the continuation of the budget consolidation in Austria. As long as we keep the course, there are no negative developments to be expected, because all these figures are forecasts and not reality in terms of a possible budget 2000. On the other hand, the reality of the year 1999 is clear: In this respect, we are on course. However, if Austria clearly misses its budget targets, a negative response of the financial markets is expected. That's not a question at all! That is why it is also important to talk about budgetary discipline to a particular extent. On question 33: In this respect, we are not at all divided in the figures, nor do I use different figures. There is, on the one hand, the total net expenditure, but according to the federal rules, you will find the gross expenditure in the budget. Thus, the revenue, i.e. the revenue from exchange contracts et cetera, must be taken into account if the question is asked what the debt of the Republic of Austria costs net. The total net cost in 1990 was 60.6 billion, in 1995 84 billion and in 1998 86 billion schilling. It is estimated at an estimated 92 billion in 1999 and 98 billion in 2000. The estimate for 2001 is 102.9, 108.9 for 2002 and 113.7 billion for 2003. I would like to stress once again: These are estimates after today's adoption of certain developments which I do not wish to carry out in detail. The estimates are an assumption of variable interest rates of 4 per cent for 2000 and 5 per cent interest for 2001 to 2003, at fixed interest rate for 2001 to 2003 at 6.5 per cent interest per anno. I have already mentioned the difference between net and gross interest rate expenditure. We need to do this fiscal policy based on settlement rules. I can also tell you the difference for the years mentioned: In 1990, 5.7 billion schillings would have to be included, for 1995 these expenditures would be 10.3 for 1998 by 9.0 and for 1999 by 9.4 billion shillings above the figures quoted by me as net expenditure. – I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9554	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9576	I have a request from Mr Öllinger and Mr Group to set up an investigation committee on the exercise of supervisory duties by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs towards the AMS, which should be composed in relation to 4 : 3 : 1. In addition, according to § 33 para. 2. request that a debate be held on this request for the establishment of an investigation committee, and that request should be taken into account. The debate and the vote on the setting up of this Committee of Inquiry will therefore be held on the basis of the vote already announced after completion of the agenda or after completion of the agenda. Mr Scheibner also spoke on business matters. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9611	Mr President. The right and the possibility of making urgent requests to a minister on matter is an outflow of the right of interconnection. It is true that, as the Minister has also said, we cannot choose the answer, but I believe that we have the right and the duty to give concrete answers to specific questions as well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They were not willing to give concrete answers to the questioning complex 7 to 16, in which very specific questions were asked, as well as to give concrete answers. Although I agree that there is the possibility of summary of questions and the answer to the questions to a general opinion, it cannot be the case that the general opinions replace the specific response of questions. You needed 45 minutes to do that! I would ask you, Mr President, to ask the Minister and also to give him the opportunity to provide concrete answers to very specific questions 7 to 16. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, I would ask you to put this problem on the agenda for the next presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9653	Deputies! The answers to questions 7 to 16 have not been given under my chairmanship. However, since the President-in-Office did not intervene at that time, I assume that the replies have complied with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Scheibner: He cannot intervene until the answer has been given!]] I personally have to say that I have not even heard whether the Federal Minister has referred to the provision of the Rules of Procedure under which he is obliged to deliver an opinion or to answer the questions. But, of course, you are free, Mr Scheibner – and we do not need a discourse on this – you have a right to revitalise such a problem in the next presidential, and it will certainly result in a discussion. Until then, we can also study the protocol. I assume that there is no need for further words to do so. Mr Kostelka, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9683	Mr President. I would like to stress that, first of all, questions 7 to 16 of their position are more than problematic than business regulations because they do not concern matters of execution. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's incredible!]] Nevertheless, the Federal Minister has addressed this in detail. If the liberals are not dramatically satisfied by the Minister of Finance's wishes, this is their case. [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of report to the Rules of Procedure?]] In any event, the Rules of Procedure have been fully respected.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9753	If the President has approved the answers, then this must be respected, and if the President has approved the questions, Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka, then this must also be respected. – But, as I said: We will discuss this at the next presidential meeting. We are now going into the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. The general speaking time of the political groups is also known. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9781	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! I have admired your humor this morning at the current hour, whose theme you have given to the SPÖ, despite a very serious occasion. I mean, the occasion, as much as you, Federal Minister, mean to have the "love Augustin" as funny as on your tie is really a very serious one! And the debate on this urgent question, which is now taking place, also has your physiognomy – thank God! – something changed. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The international comparisons that we have heard here today and which were very interesting are objectives that we can understand very well in Austria and which we ultimately need to achieve. If you respond to requests, opinions or on demonstrations of these international objectives, these benchmarks, by the opposition in such a way that you ask the opposition as follows: How do you get where these comparatively competitive countries of Austria lie today?. then this is nothing but a declaration of bankruptcy of your financial and budgetary policy, Mr Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What new debt and economic growth in Austria has achieved in the last two years – and in the coming years according to OECD forecasts – Austria is finally in the EU! You can't be proud of this, Mr. Finance Minister, and you can't go here and ask the opposition: Yeah, what are you doing?- Oh, my God! [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] As early as 1997, you, Federal Minister Edlinger, have been referred to by the EU Commissioners as "especially creative" accountants, and there is black on white, Austria is taking advantage of all officially recognised possibilities to reduce the mountain of general government debt through outlays, such as ASFINAG. You, Mr. Finanzminister, are quoted as one who understood to reduce at least his debts in the book, in the balance sheet or in the budget – but with a mortgage on the future. I call on you today to implement your creativity now and to bring us solutions here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should learn from 1998 when important Wifo experts showed you all the necessary structural reforms. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There, Minister of Finance, your picture is on it. You can read all this at Walterskirchen, Lehner, Pichelmann. It is expressly stated here: Most experts agree with Burkert, Pichelmann, Lehner: No structural measures have been taken. Clement put his finger on another wound: The structure of expenditure is too little forward-looking because education, research and infrastructure do not play a role at all and no future investment can be expected. And you, Minister of Finance, will leave us today, in 1999, once again in the dark about how You want to finance these structural tasks, as you want to finance the tasks of the future! We received recently, more precisely on 24 July. November, another alarm signal sent by the European Commission. The budget of the Republic of Austria is an alarming case! ==References== (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are therefore told by the responsible Commissioner for the EU, where Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, has repeatedly been introduced in recent months in order to achieve a high level of harmonisation of taxes in order to hide our excessive budget deficit, our excessive expenditure and tax rate. And there you have also been told: Reduce the structural budget deficit to a maximum of 1 per cent of GDP by saving expenditure! And what did you say about the two savings packages, Mr. Finanzminister? – You said that there would be mostly savings on the expenditure side. But it happened exactly the reverse. They said two-thirds of the savings, one-third of the burden. – But it was exactly the other way round! What do you say again today? – The future will only be considered by me on the expenditure side, and the savings will be made on the expenditure side. You can't be believed the third time, Minister of Finance! A savings package will follow on the foot! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also quite ridiculous how you deal with Professor Kramer's statement. For example, if Professor Kramer tells you how much public expenditure in the EU, how much they represent in Germany – in a country that also has a very high level of defence expenditure to bear – so if Professor Kramer tells you that this is 2% of GDP, and you, Mr Minister, have quite rightly said that 2% of GDP is already 54 billion schilling today, then you, Mr Finanzminister, cannot simply say: The well-known professor should tell me how to do this! You can't say that, Minister. [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] You have the responsibility! You have the task of leading Austria to the next millennium! The opposition is not required to show you the way, but we will show you the goal! You like the way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to pull the emergency brake and simply limit the discretion expenditure is certainly a signal: a signal that will happen something we are waiting for. But now to say that it's all in silence, because there's no new government and you're just provisional finance ministers, is really too cheap! As if the Social Democrats were to put the Minister of Finance in the Second Republic for the first time! For 28 years you have had time for structural reforms, but nothing has happened! The debt, the pension grants et cetera continue to rise. The exploratory talks with the Social Democrats and you personally showed us: The subject of budget will be excluded. On the subject of budget there is no information, which is top secret; there will be continued in Camera caritatis, and there will be information such as: 2.2 percent new debt in 1999, although all international reports already account for 2.6 percent. But then you say again: That was the last year, but in the year 2000 comes the big renovation step! . So I can't see any improvement in the budget you've presented. If you say that Mr President-in-Office of the Council has told you today, I can only reply: He has not only told you, but he has also told you that we will soon be put under EU curate when we continue with the budget. Personally, I would like to tell you: That's nothing new either. This criticism of the Court of Auditors is well known to you from the last few years. It is also impossible to see how you, Minister Edlinger, were on the way to Vienna's Financial City Council. – Mr Minister, as Councillor of the City in 1993 to 1995, you have raised the re-indebtedness of Vienna from 2 billion to 11 billion schilling and reduced the investment from 18 billion to 14 billion schilling. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: But there I was not a Financial City Councillor!]] - Oh, yeah! That was exactly after Hans Mayr. I would also like to ask myself, Mr Edlinger, whether your humorous deposits are nothing but an act of despair, saying: Well, what are you doing?- Oh, my God! You, Minister Edlinger, will go into history as the Federal Minister, who will be remembered as a federal debt minister. And I'll tell you, too. I really don't envy the one who will take up his inheritance in this office in the year that expires! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9891	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9913	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Prinzhorn wanted to organise a race with the Minister of Finance in terms of humor, he would know for himself: He cannot win this competition, and he does not win the competition either as regards the issue of financial and economic soundness. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't have such a nice tie! The tie makes it up!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Finance Edlinger has presented us with a 1998 budget – and it has kept it. Minister of Finance Edlinger has presented us with a 1999 budget – and there will be a point landing too. [[Abg. Scheibner: In the swamp!]] There is therefore no doubt as to the financial and economic soundness of this Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: There will be a breach landing!]] In assessing our budget, the OECD has pointed out that structural measures have been implemented. It welcomed these structural measures and noted the need for further structural measures. If you are speaking, Mr Prinzhorn, of the fact that no structural measures have been taken, you are contradicting the very findings of the OECD, which has been so severely stressed by your colleagues in the political groups this morning, in the current hour. Second point, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: The 2000 budget cannot be an alarming case because the 2000 budget is not yet available and therefore all the assumptions about the 2000 deficit are based on the assumption that there will be no measures and no structural changes. But the goal of every new Austrian government – no matter how it will be composed – must be to put in place structural measures, not only to keep the deficit in check, but above all to make the Austrian economy and the Austrian jobs more sustainable. Therefore, all Kassandra Rufe regarding a potential deficit of 2000 is not appropriate today, neither appropriate nor helpful. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, there are some principles for the 2000 budget referred to by the Minister of Finance. I believe that these principles already show a right way for the debate on a 2000 budget. On the one hand, he pointed out that new spending ideas have to be demonstrated by counter-financing ideas – something that will give the Freedom Party the greatest pleasure, because there have been no counter-financing ideas for the flat-tax ideas of the past year until today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Third point: The Minister of Finance has pointed out that there can be no new desires that will only be met in the budget. Fourthly, he pointed out that the budget must have greater social security, especially as regards transfers. On the fifth – and I think this is very important – he pointed out that the responsibility for certain expenditure needs to be brought more into line with the actual source of expenditure. This is a point which will only be resolved in the course of the financial compensatory negotiations of the coming year, but which will be extremely important for the structure of the entire budget. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the tax reform of the year 2000 and on the family policy measures that are now being criticised by various sides, either under the motto that they are on waving financial policy legs, or under the motto that if one cannot afford these measures, one should take them back, one must refer to three points. Point one: The family package was important to help those who actually need it. This family package has brought about a positive change in family promotion from the point of view of distribution. Secondly, this tax reform of 2000 partially restores funds to those who have contributed by way of a fee to consolidate the budget. Thirdly, it should be noted that very many or almost all critics of the tax reform and the family package did not demand that the extent be smaller, and did not demand that only 20 billion, 15 billion or 10 billion schilling be spent instead of 32 billion. Instead, most critics have demanded that tax reform should be given back to citizens much more than what the House has decided on. That is why I think it is contradictory if the same people who called for more tax reform six months ago complain about some gaps in the 2000 budget and shed tears on the fact that the preparation of the next budget will be an extremely difficult task. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One has to decide between social-political populism or a path of financial responsibility, which social reforms will carry out in such a way that they will be sustainable in the future in Austria and that they will make Austria future. But with that social-political populism, which six months ago called for tax reforms of 230 billion schilling and now complains of a budget hole, with this attitude, budget policy cannot be done in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10002	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10023	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my contribution, allow me to make a very clear statement on behalf of my group: The Austrian People's Party has always shown itself to be familiar with the basic economic value that a balanced government budget is the basis for economic and political stability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He's it for a very simple reason: A government budget that is not in order is a permanent threat to the taxpayer that the Minister of Finance takes him into the wallet, and he is, secondly, a permanent threat to jobs and businesses that these new burdens fall on the head. That is why we are in favour of a balanced state budget. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not lip confessions and not principles for us by the People's Party. In the past, we were willing to adopt high-risk strategies to help break through this principle. I remember the year 1995. At that time we announced the coalition without regard to party interests and purely in the state interest after a year in order to enable this necessary consolidation process. [[Abg. Scheibner: But nothing changed!]] At the time, the interests of the state were in favour of party interests, Mr Colleague, and that is the position of the People's Party on these budget issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But nothing changed at that time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a People's Party, we have thus – and this is indisputable – provided the conditions for Austria to be a member of the European Monetary Union with the euro from the start. We need this budget consolidation, ladies and gentlemen. This is no contradiction to another basic value, namely a fundamental social policy value, which is: More money in the hands of the citizen and less money in the hands of the state! Why is this no contradiction, ladies and gentlemen? – Because tax and budget are of course a unit, that is not a question at all. If I lower taxes without wanting to raise the deficit, I must also act on the expenditure side. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we proposed from the People's Party – down from the partyobmann – at the time to use, in parallel with the Tax Reform Commission, a task reform commission and expenditure savings commission, because one does not go without the other! [[Abg. Böhacker: Where is the Commission?]] Mr Finanzminister! With all appreciation of your personal integrity: It was a serious failure not to use an expenditure savings commission in parallel with the Tax Reform Commission. This is a clear failure of your financial policy – with all other appreciation of your personal integrity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! Allow me a second point of criticism. I have already said this from this speaker's mouth: Your work has been to negatively occupy the positive basic value of saving with the expression "sparpackage". I think this is wrong! Saving is a positive basic value, every family father knows, every housewife knows. But using the term "sparpaket" to negatively occupy the basic value of saving is something to which we do not confess, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For in the future we will also need a economical course of budgetary policy if we want to cope with the future, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister! It certainly does not surprise you – it would be unnatural if a Social Democratic Finance Minister and a Christian-Social politician, who comes from the economy, had complete agreement on all points; that would be unnatural, in fact, that your statements on family support today met with our massive resistance. [[Abg. Böhacker: But otherwise you have everything in common!]] If I've listened properly, you've just said: In the top three of the incomes one could actually give up or shorten family allowances in the sense of precise reliability. Let me say one thing very clearly, Minister of Finance: The People's Party acknowledges social security. However, the reduction or removal of family allowances in the promotion of families means tax policy consequences. That means: Family taxation! Then social confidence is actually possible in the family. We confess that we need social security in order to finance – but then with the corresponding consequences, as the Supreme Court pointed out! Another point: Nor will you be surprised that we see the function of the ÖIAG differently, Minister. We see the task of ÖIAG – and since ÖIAG has actually acted very successfully so far – as a privatisation agency. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] I think it is a relapse in outdated, failed positions to say that the ÖIAG should play core shareholder, that it should play business again as well. – If the state exercises entrepreneurship in the economy, that means that politics is in the economy. But we are in favour of the withdrawal of politics from the economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Federal Minister Edlinger sitting on the government bank) I'll send you the protocol!]] Another objective point of criticism, Mr Finanzminister. In fact, we have always been of one opinion for many years – that was to be heard in every budget debate – that the budget is the overall work of art of the Federal Government and the central hub of government policy. [[Abg. Gaugg: But I don't think the ÖVP ministers have contributed to consolidation either!]] Now to say: Where to save, the individual ministers should propose this on their own, and I, the Minister of Finance, am as simple as the tailor!, I think, it is not possible to confess to the overall work of art of the Federal Government! [[Abg. Gaugg: Very dared statement, "total work of art"!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not a painting!]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I am convinced that the issue of seriality in budgetary policy will decide to a great extent what government constellations we will have in the next few years. The questions: The strength of a future government's renewal, conformity with its content and reliability will stand to a high degree in budgetary policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was no coincidence that in his ten-point catalogue for the exploratory talks, the President of the Federal Government deliberately called the consolidation of the state budget. For budgetary policy is classical policy in the sense of future design. But debt is spent future, and we are not willing to go this way!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10225	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10246	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the liberals have asked a question that is actually urgent, which contains an interesting text and interesting questions. However, I believe that she has two gaps. One thing – it has already been pointed out – is what the liberals themselves want: Flat tax, upgrade of the federal army and NATO entry as well as children's check. [[Abg. Scheibner: Federal Army is important!]] If I only take these three things, I can already reach 150 to 160 billion schilling or 6 percent of GDP in additional deficit. [[Abg. Scheibner: No!]] Let's put that down. That was not the content of your request, but I would have added it – I am not a member of the Freedom Party either. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: With your petrol price increase!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The second point is that your request is addressed exclusively to the Minister of Finance. I already said this morning: The ÖVP hangs in there the same way. It is absolutely absurd when my colleague comes out stupid and says he has nothing to do with this whole thing. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I didn't say that!]] The budget slamassel has already engulfed us in this budget year, in 1999, and not just for 2000. If you have not known the figures, Mr President, if you are stupid, who have announced the Wifo monthly since March 1999, then I can only say: This is grossly negligent on your part. I can't recognise the Minister of Finance's debt to provide you with these publicly available figures on a monthly basis. But since March – not only since July or November, but since March – the deficit will be 2.5 percent in 2000. Therefore, the ÖVP is just as inside as the SPÖ, there can be no doubt about that. If I were to criticise the text of the request of the liberals, then at the very least that they also represent the matter in a way that is still too beautiful – quite unusual on the part of the liberal colleagues! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We are striving for fairness!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: We are they of the Enlightenment.]] For example, on page 3, Mr Colleague: There, you criticize Minister of Finance Edlinger for saying at the end of October that "a five percent reduction in discretionary expenditure" is enough, although – you write – "it was clear at this time that Austria would have a budget deficit of 2.4 percent to 2.6% of GDP in 2000 without immediate countermeasures, and thus the final light in the EU on budgetary consolidation". – What is the meaning of "formation"? You can use the indicator quietly! First of all, this has been fixed for a long time, and second – as no speaker has pointed out today – we will not be in the year 2000 – as we could still say, that is perhaps corrective – final light in budget consolidation in the EU, but we are already in 1999! I can only be surprised at the Minister of Finance who said today: Large states, such as Germany, have higher deficits this year, but next year they have no elections, then they easily reduce that, and that distorts the picture. – Please: In 1999, so this year, already, Austria has a deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP. This is the highest value in the EU – but ex aequo with Italy; well, a beautiful comfort! Germany has 1.6 percent – between them worlds! It cannot be said that this will not occur until 2000. We are already here, Mr Commissioner, Mr Minister for Agriculture and so on. You from the Federal Government, you need to know what the situation is. Are we supposed to tear this 2.6 percent off the chair or not? – I tell you honestly: For one year... [[Abg. May. Molterer: "And so on" I'm not called!]] Please? [[Abg. May. Molterer: "And so on" I usually don't call it!]] – I meant the other ministers I do not see here at the moment, and I called you alternate for those who are not present right now. The 2.6 percent of GDP would not tear me off the chair as much as they – I suppose – tear you off the chair, Minister of Finance. A year would not be a problem, but two, three, five or ten years – this is the problem! This is exactly what we have been observing since the mid-1980s with the corresponding increase in debt. We are now paying 4 percent of GDP for interest rates. As a member of the University of Vienna, I must say: That hurts me! The entire scientific and research budget in Austria, seen from the federal government – but the others do not pay anything anyway – amounts to about 1 percent of GDP. Four times as much we pay for interest, year-out, year-in-year, and the trend is rising! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: We pay less for pensions too!]] This trend is rising first because it is easy to say that we will receive a penalty of 0.2 or 0.3 percent of the interest rate for non-compliance with our own goals. It is not true that the EU would have prescribed this, it is our own goals. Secondly, the trend is rising as there will anyway be an interest rate increase trend in the EU next year. Under the rule only interest – easily, I would say – comes out of an additional charge of between 5 and 10 billion. In this respect, fiscal consolidation is indeed an objective which the Greens also pursue with all the seriousness that is required here. Now, the liberals – especially the clubman – have assembled that they have made a long, long request, but have not received any answers. I'd say, That's right. You have received a very long answer, but the content is none. This will probably also be because they have asked a Potemkin's Finance Minister. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is no other one!]] It's actually just the cover of a finance minister here in front of us. He's a finance minister, but at the same time he's not. Because we have a federal government, but it is only provisional. It is still in office, at the same time not – no human being knows how it will continue. I mean, it is actually a lot required of him – from him who is now sitting here physically, Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger – to say what he is planning if he does not even know if he will be a member of the next Federal Government. [[Abg. Scheibner: What would be necessary from his point of view, he could say!]] You will have to consider yourself, Minister, whether in the face of this mess on 31 December. In December 1999, or in the light of what is emerging for the year 2000, your desire has increased to start a coalition with the blacks and to resolve these budget abuses again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Anyone will have to do it, Mr. Cot!]] - Someone will have to do it, very right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10453	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10474	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen! I am convinced that we could take over this task without a doubt, because we are able to cut old heads off. We do not do it stupidly, as my colleague, who has not only given his approval for years to a deficitary budget development, but also said every time, we must save, although his own ministers were actually those who have spent the most heavily and have contributed to the fact that this Republic is so there today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Think!]] – Clean yourself down within seconds is easy. I must admit, as nervous as today, I have never seen the Minister of Finance. The reason for this will be not to know... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I'm nervous?]] – They have acted as a social democratic original, as a finance minister who stands above things. We have heard the rhetorical climbing and exercises over and over again, according to the motto: Zwick a pudding, the finance minister always turns you out. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! Today you are faced with the scrapping of your budget policy. In fact, you are really glad not to have to present a budget 2000 here, otherwise you would have had to admit a few weeks after your election that the next savings package is in the house, because you will not find the room for discretion with the 20 billion schilling yet. You know that. They were always proud to be able to report that, in fact, all the local "players" – Wifo and similar, i.e. the self-accompanied actors in the social insurance institutions and so on – are satisfied with themselves. But only the actors themselves are satisfied, because the audience has never been asked. The audience in the social security institutions, in the local health telephone, which is deficit, is not asked! The audience is also constantly pushed into the waiting position at the budget, because despite two savings packages it is not clear that the administrative reform had taken place somewhere. Her State Secretary Ruttenstorfer was always very hard. But he has already agreed and said: Thank you, I'd rather go to the OMC, they can at least set the prices as they want! Apparently, it must be even worse in your resort than you think, otherwise, he might have stayed and would have continued his way. The savings targets in the ministries have been far missing. This is a criticism of the Court of Auditors; not the "evil" opposition says that. All ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, have not achieved their goals. All of this would be argumentable and disputable, but the problem is that this budgetary policy does serious economic damage to the Austrian population. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The self-acceptors in the social insurance sectors flooded us monthly with statistics. Monthly we are delighted that we have almost full employment. "Full employment" trust But you can't tell yourself. However, there are countries where full employment is achieved. That's South Tyrol and Bavaria. These are examples of how things can go. We rejoice at the highest level of employment and forget that 50,000 full-time jobs have been lost and 70 000 part-time jobs have been replaced. Is this responsible social policy? – I can only say that this is also a point of failure! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The current hour this morning seemed to me like a flight forward, according to the motto: Let us try it again and present to the population once again the goals we had by 2003! – At the same time say But you, I'm not actually a Minister of Finance, I'm still sitting there for one to two months. It can't be! Today we have discussions about the future of Austria. In addition, there are calls from various camps such as the Industrial Union and more. It is said that one of the urgent measures to boost the economy would be to increase the retirement age. To bravo! I would be pleased if, at last, measures were taken by the government to limit early retirement. But these are exactly those industrial representatives who mercilessly employ their employees from the age of 50. Send years of life to the street and deliver to the public! These are the ones who falsify the statistics! These are the banks, the insurance companies and the large industries. From 55 onwards, the employee is no longer worth anything, nothing needs to be earned, he should go home. We need young and new. – This is the lie in the discussion. If you really confess to that, then that must stop. Or the employees should also be able to say on their own: I've been working on construction for 42 years, I'm now 57 years old and I want to go to retirement. He should be able to do that. As long as this discussion is not conducted honestly, as long as one makes policy only for statistics, so long as one does not achieve the goal of rehabilitation of Austria. For years, the reduction in the burden rate has been promised, but it does not occur. The only thing that works perfectly in our Republic up to the present day is the proportion and the artificial economy. These work until today. All other areas need to be improved. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say one thing, Mr Edlinger, to you: They will go into the history of this Republic as Minister of Stamps. I'll tell you why. Their statements show a gap in relation to reality as much as they can be found in the budget. You promised us many months ago, you will abolish the stamp marks, and you have also organized a great feast for it. What happened? – In the Ministry of Finance, you set up your own stamp pay agencies, which still work glaringly with the 1910 cash register. That's how it is handled! In the countries and communities, everywhere the stamp trade is flourishing! So it is: They tell us that this has been abolished and done, but in truth nothing has happened. It's the same thing with the budget. In fact, you are grateful that you do not have to present a budget 2000. But I'll tell you that a budget is feasible. It is then feasible if not only good will is available, but also reforms are implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10555	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10577	Mr President. Federal Minister! My dear colleague Gaugg, I'll start where you left off. We are also convinced that the budget is feasible. [[Abg. Scheibner: We finally want to hear the concrete measures!]] I have already thought of this in the morning, even in the discussions by Mr Trattner – also with Mr Böhacker – when the budget course was called into question. How often have I heard in the last ten, twelve years: There's a budget chaos, a financial debacle, it's over, you can't make a budget anymore. Please: A budget has been made each year. The development of this country – on which we could have our own discussion – is all right, and I do not want to make any particularly euphoric statements now. It's all right and it works. There is no discussion about the need for improvement approaches and reform approaches. But I wonder what these dramatic statements, the budget chaos, the financial debacle, should always be here, because they are not there. I agree with Mr Gaugg that action must be taken and that the corresponding budget should then be made. I assume that Edlinger will be Finance Minister again. That is why he should be glad if he could have already presented the Federal proposal here, because then he would have saved some critical comments and, above all, today's discussion. Unfortunately, Mr Gaugg has now disappeared. I have to say, the whole thing's a little hard. I quote an example. I have listened carefully today both at the current hour and now in the afternoon during the discussion on pensions. On the morning – if I have heard about this correctly – Mr Cot requested higher pension increases. As economic or financial spokesperson of the liberals – if I have listened properly – Mr Prinzhorn has criticised this and said that there should be cuts in pension increases. So he demanded the opposite. It is therefore very difficult to deal with problems or proposals that are changed relatively quickly – in this case even in one day. Mr Trattner has now strongly supported the OECD economic report in his urgent question. I also read it carefully and looked through it again. I will show, on the basis of a small example, that, of course, critical remarks are contained in the report, but above all, one should remain at the beginning of the report. This also applies to colleague Van der Bellen. Both Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Trattner of the Liberals have said: This is a paper in which statements are made, according to which we have to judge, which must lead to our soul. The first sentence in this report is as follows: The reduction in the budget deficit to a Maastricht-compliant level was a major success in budgetary policy. – That does not say a Social Democratic, it does not say an EIA minister, but that says the OECD Economic Report, which is used as a reason for the alleged bad budgetary policy and financial debate. But it's still going on. That's what I'm saying: The efforts to meet the criteria for EU accession have resulted in significant structural reforms. - Quote. – You say there were no structural reforms, it didn't work. I have at least understood your statements, and you have quoted the OECD report. I could say some more, but I have to point out one thing: It's not been saved. We have not observed the debt ratio – certainly very high. It is black on this point that the federal budget has reduced the debt ratio from 70 percent to 64.5 percent. – The OECD Report notes on page 47. The government expenditure ratio is criticized. The government expenditure ratio was reduced by 1.75% of GDP in 1997 and by a total of 2.75% between 1995 and 1997. Is that nothing? Is that not an improvement? . These are questions that are entitled to rely on this report. Now on the budgetary stabilisation programme. This is important because there are critical comments in this report, which have also been quoted by Mr Trattner. What does the OECD Economic Report say? – On the expenditure side, the planned consolidation will come to a standstill in so far as it is actually a critical remark, because various expenditure increases have been used. But if you read these critical comments, you also have to read the addition, because it says: These additional expenditures largely result from the planned extension of social expenditure, which in turn is linked to the fact that the government has made the reduction of unemployment and the preservation of social cohesion the main objective of its policies during the period under review. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I would like to say that the government was not very ambitious. Especially from your side, ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party, in recent years we have been repeatedly criticized that we are "privileged students". They asked: Does Austria have to be a favorite student? Don't be so ambitious, develop less ambition, that's better for the country and for the citizens! – Soon we are less ambitious, we will again be criticised. Whatever you do, it's bad. But that's it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't want to polemise. That's not a polemic at all. These are the facts that I see on the basis of what Mr Trattner has presented as the basis for his consideration. Finally, I have to point out one thing because it is always said that the budget does not work. What about the economic vulnerability of our budget situation? – The OECD report states: "...the consolidation rate set out in the stability programme may not be sufficient." – After that, the structural and other measures to be taken for future budgets are listed. Ladies and gentlemen! We have presented the programme. I could talk about it for half an hour now, unfortunately my speaking time has already expired. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Which one? No measure!]] I would just like to say more about what the OECD Economic Report says. It is necessary to act accordingly. There's a need for action. To this end, the new government will be there, it will make a corresponding federal proposal. But this paper, which is based on your request, is the OECD's economic report, and it says: We're on the right track. Although it is not yet the end of the path, it is a first part that has been successfully pursued. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10633	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10655	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I was really pleased today when Mr Trattner mentioned here a measure of this government from earlier times, namely the change in the basic acquisition tax, which has simplified the exceptions. I have therefore looked at what was said in 1988, when it was decided, by the Freedom Party on this process, which has been so praised today. Dillersberger: That's what hit the so-called little man and the little woman. Dkfm. Bauer, then unknown financial speaker: For these reasons, we, the FPÖ, will reject this measure. I am pleased that, after a very long reaction period, one has at least now understood that this was a sensible and correct measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Secondly, I am not the defender of Mr Edlinger. [[Abg. Scheibner: Look at this!]] - I'm not. But if Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger was held by colleagues Prinzhorn that he would have been responsible for the dramatic increase in the debt in Vienna as a financial city council in Vienna, this is simply wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is child-moving!]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Thank you!]] Here is the federal financial debt report, which also lists the financial debt of the countries. To remember: Ladies and gentlemen! In 1988, Vienna had a share of 49.5% in the debts of the federal states, and in 1997, when Mr. Edlinger became Federal Minister of Finance, Vienna had a share of 46.1 percent in the financial debt of the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Now it's the real thing. I agree with the Federal Minister that this urgent question is positive. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we have learned something!]] As early as the morning, Mr Heindl said in the current hour that there was nothing to hide, that it was not necessary to create panic, that everything would be subordinated, but decisive things would not be questioned. He was right. After these 33 questions, I assume that this will no longer be sustained, because it actually questioned decisive things. I recognize that, ladies and gentlemen, the facts are clearly put on the table. Yes, it is right, there is the urgent need to step up fiscal consolidation even more intensively. That's not a question at all. But acting as if nothing had happened at all is wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be clear to everyone that expenditure on pensions, interest rates, for staff, will have an impact on the Federal budget in the coming years. But acting as if we were last-class everywhere and in all areas of the EU is simply an advantage. We do not need to hide comparisons with the EU in terms of employment figures. We do not need to hide comparisons with the EU regarding corporate tax reform. We also need not hide comparisons in the family sector since the last tax reform, which also has a significant effect on our manuscript. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased when I hear that the work situation is positive and that we have little unemployment in relation to other countries, but in some areas we still have too many. I have the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) of 27. November of this year. For 20 pages, workers are being sought! It is not jobs, it is workers who are being sought. For 20 pages it's trying to find personnel, get staff. Recently, TV was also a report on the fact that some hoteliers cannot lock up in the west of our state, because they lack staff and they need additional foreign seasonal workers, in order to get back on the way to additional foreigners in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! We should also point out that we have a positive job situation, that we can have excellent employment figures, and we should also say quite openly that we are net payers after Brussels and that we have relatively little support from Brussels, especially little economic support. We represent at least 2% of the EU's total population and receive a whole hundredths as economic support! I therefore ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, whether everything is painted too black. I think it is important to distinguish between those facts in which there are problems and to say clearly, but not to be all general and flat-rate negative. Perhaps, Minister of State, it would also be necessary to be a little more effective in some areas with structural reforms. For the word "debureaucratisation" – it is promised by everyone, even by us, that is clearly stated – I can no longer hear it. In fact, it is time and again, even with my voice – I acknowledge, but unfortunately I add – that additional laws have been passed, regulations, regulations, regulations, regulations and so on. Today, no medium-sized businessman, no employee, no employee, no more board chairman of a stock company can know the paragraphs that concern him himself in his profession. No one can know them anymore! Every self-employed trader and trader must be afraid of the rules that come from this House, from the countryside and from other areas. There are therefore too few entrepreneurs who "run" something because many say: I'm not doing that anymore! – They will then become workers so that they no longer have these problems. That, I think, is the wrong way. Perhaps it is possible to actually think about this problem at the beginning of a new legislative period. Thousands of pages printed with paragraphs do not help us! I now experience in my community that it has received more than one third of the area as a 'Natura 2000' area – I formulate it this way – without talking to a real estate owner, to the municipal administration or to the political authority. There are things that are inconceivable, provisions on nature areas that are partly like cold expropriation! That can't be! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I also ask you very clearly for something that one of your predecessors once formulated: Federal Minister Lacina once defined the policy that Austria will pick up every funding schilling in Brussels! – However, if we make 20 percent savings with the lawn mower method, it will no longer be possible in many areas to get those funds from Brussels that the economy, the workers who urgently need agriculture, will be able to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[17:04]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10765	I announce that, according to § 33 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Gaugg has requested a committee of inquiry to examine responsibility in connection with the lack of efficiency of labour market policy measures under the AMS. In this context, there is a desire to hold a debate. The request is sufficiently supported. The debate will therefore be held after completion of the agenda or after completion of the negotiations and debates already scheduled after completion of the agenda, followed by the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10801	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! One thing I would like to make clear at the outset, namely that we from the Greens see very well the need for fiscal consolidation and not only want more and more, but also that it is necessary to change things seriously in some areas. Minister! First, you said that a budget is something like a political will cast by the government. The question is, when it comes to savings measures, where, who and when are saved. I now have the impression that, above all, there is to be saved where it is easy, where there are no long-term contracts, where there is little resistance to expect and where the lobbys are not very strong. An area that is very affected, but which has a strong resistance, is Austrian development cooperation. But this lobby is apparently still not strong enough, still too weak. What's this about? As you probably know, according to Article VII, item 12 of the 1999 Federal Finance Act, there is a provision which empowers the Federal Minister for Finance in the area of bilateral development aid – that is the area that is directly agreed between Austrian organizations, between the Austrian state and countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America – to exceed a total of 100 million schilling. So far, this has been the practice. We had the same situation several years ago. It was possible at the time. This year, there were also commitments from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which manages the field of project and programme assistance, to the organizations. Now, non-disbursement of these 100 million Schilling projects for contractually agreed projects would endanger the existence of projects and also damage Austria's reputation as a partner for this development cooperation. You have to imagine that! Because this is something that has already been agreed. For example, this is a small credit project for women in Uganda, with which these women have the opportunity to generate income themselves. If Austrian support now needs to be removed, that means that there is a stop there, that there is no longer this possibility. It can't really be that it's supposed to be saved there! In addition, cuts in discretionary expenditure are proposed for the next year. This would be especially true for the area of development cooperation, where so far the talk about the "development billion" – in reality it was between 850 and 950 million schilling – means that after this 20 percent reduction next year, 600 million schilling is available. But we can no longer fulfil our international obligations. In this context, I must remind you that in the campaign, even the campaign was often said or envisaged that the funds for development cooperation should be increased to 2 billion schilling. I am already wondering what the promises in the election campaign are worth and what this has to do with today's situation. There's a big hole in between. In addition, it must be added that Austria is already in the leading position within the EU. Do we want to make this even worse now? Do we want to be the end of the EU next year? – It really can't be the political will to do so! Of course we can say that is not so important, we do not care about the poor in the Third World. But in my opinion, the political will of an Austrian government should be different. Minister! I cannot really believe that it is actually the political will of the government – including the provisional government and your side – to bring the organizations of development cooperation to the brink of ruin. This would mean the failure to decide on this budget and the cuts next year. It doesn't mean there's no other way. As an emergency measure, for example, it would be possible to rework multilateral assistance to, for example, the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank. It is not to be seen that it is said that the international organisations are untouchable, but of course the treaties that one has in the country can be attacked, because there are only one year contracts. By the way, this is also a criticism point that has been pointed out for a long time. Another point: There is development aid. Their funds are not only managed by one ministry, but unfortunately by many, and unfortunately there is no coherence either. For example, the competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs lies in the promotion of exports to countries which do not belong to the priority countries, and there are also savings. Unfortunately, there is no political will to do so. I very much regret that it was not possible to present today, during this plenary session, a joint motion for a resolution by all the parties on this issue to decide today on this 100 million schilling or at least the political will that these 100 million schilling be granted for this year. Therefore, and perhaps in order to give you the opportunity to agree today to a request that there should not be any such reductions in the area of Austrian development cooperation, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10894	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is properly put in place, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10918	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have rarely heard as many plates in a debate about a parliamentary urgent request from a Federal Minister as today. That was a piece that reminded a predecessor of you very strongly, Minister of State! The former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Vranitzky, also hastened to sum up points in an answer, and then to say quite nothing. I wasn't used to that in the past. As far as parliamentary questions on urgent questions are concerned, I was always accustomed to you taking a detailed opinion in the plenary session, but today you seem to have taken out the arguments. What you then produced was a single speech bubble, Minister of State! I have to say that in your statements, apart from these plains, you did not allow any evidence of how this huge debt and this threatening budget deficit can be reduced. I have heard some speculative approaches, but a serious budgetary policy, a serious consolidation course can really not be the point. Federal Minister! Your problem is that in the past, while you have always tried rhetorically brilliantly to get things over the political stage, you have always greatly appreciated yourself, at least in important matters. If one lets your duties happen, goes back a few years and replicates press releases and brings out once again what you said, then this is proof of how wrong You've estimated so many situations. That is why I do not believe that this 20 billion shilling risk remains for the budget, I do not think it will certainly be more. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ==References== In December 1997, Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger noted that expenditure dynamics in the social field had to be dampened in principle, and there would have to be a flattening of the growth curve in the federal grant, which increases from 4 to 6 billion schilling annually. - But I don't notice any flattering. ==References== In March 1998, it was about the budget and the integration of Austria into the euro area. Then you spoke of stability and security and said the sentence – I quote –: "We will have a currency with the euro in Europe that can compete with the most important currencies in the world, the dollar or the yen." - Quote. The result is known: 15 percent downgrading in just one year – that was your assessment, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then it goes on: ==References== January was about privatisation. The only thing that came to your mind about privatisation was: How can we transfer 3 billion schilling to the BIG? Then you say that to stop budget holes, the money, namely these 3 billion schillings, is not needed because there are no budget holes. What's what's going on about us now, that 20 billion schilling? - No budget holes?- Oh, my God! Then it continues on 12th. May 1999: With tax reform 2000 – this is interesting now – it was his efforts to avoid a third savings package, said Federal Minister Edlinger. He said it often enough; in the campaign he spoke of a third savings package, although it is actually the fourth savings package. In view of this, Mr Federal Minister, I should like to ask you: What was that for a 1999 budget, which does not last even three months without a definitive federal government without such a hole opening up? Federal Minister! That wasn't a budget program, it's a mogel pack! Unfortunately, I cannot spare you this accusation of God. There are many other things. The fact is, we're dealing with a debt mountain of 1,600 billion schilling. For 30 years there has been a socialist finance minister, and in this 30-year activity of these socialist finance ministers, our debts have developed to the level of these 1,600 billion schillings. On many questions asked today, the Federal Minister could not answer at all, not even in the first place. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic has really earned a solution. The Republic does not deserve a Minister of Finance, who gives the people sand to the eyes. I'm absolutely convinced: 30 years of socialist finance ministers are enough!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10998	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11019	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the urgent question raised by the FPÖ: There are certainly some positions in that one can discuss. I had at least the impression at the beginning that it should be a matter of fact, but there were a few words, especially those of Mr Gaugg and, last but not least, those of Mr Firlinger, who clearly pointed out that they do not want to solve problems, but only to adapt a successful finance minister. [[Abg. Gaugg: Yes, of course, Edler!]] These are your messages that you have sent here today, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] To this end, it should be noted that: First: The consolidation course was and is properly established. The Federal Minister for Finance is not responsible for the political situation after which no budget 2000 could be negotiated! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] On the basis of the Constitution concerning the budget procedure, the Minister of Finance must act. The reduction in discretion expenditure by 20 percent is to be managed flexibly within the ministries. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who wrote your speech?]] Now we expect a stable government, ladies and gentlemen. A socially balanced budget must be negotiated during the forthcoming budgetary negotiations, taking into account Austria's economic location. The budget targets have been clearly defined by the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen. We must be aware, however, that successful negotiations are only possible in a negotiating environment of trust involving the social partners and the countries and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! The main thing for me is that this successful policy of socially balanced budget consolidation must be continued. The future tasks, which the Minister of Finance has clearly defined, must be addressed. Above all, it has been pointed out how important it is for us, for social democracy, to employment policy. I believe that investment in infrastructure is of particular importance. Since it has been discussed in recent weeks that transport projects are to be planned, implemented together, it is also intended to mention the importance of project management in the future and must be. Ladies and gentlemen! The success of social benefits has been repeatedly addressed by all political groups, but concrete proposals have not yet been reached. [[Abg. Gaugg: This is a urgent request!]] It is difficult to exclude certain groups, but one has to ask whether it is legitimate for those who have a high income to receive transfers. To draw up a concept will certainly not be easy. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg – because you are so distinguished by intermediate calls! You must agree once within the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. On the morning, Mr President, in the current hour, it was said that the increase for pensioners was too small. I would underline this if we could afford it. Mr Prinzhorn said that the state aid for pensions was far too high. – So you have to agree on what policy you want to represent. Ladies and gentlemen! The budgetary policy of the Federal Government was properly adopted. [[Abg. Gaugg: That was honest at least before! Now you're reading again!]] Consolidation must be implemented before savings packages. Acceptance in the population for this policy is given. But I would like to stress once again: For us employment policy certainly counts equally much! Austria is looking forward to a stable federal government which is View in the world public enjoys a stable federal government so that we finally come back to an objective policy in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11122	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11143	Mr President. Minister! I don't think you need to be a blind man to find out that the topic of budget will also be a permanent burner in the next few years. I'm sure you're right. [[Abg. Gaugg: A wise statement!]] I remember: In 1995, I think there was a Minister of Finance Staribacher. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The budgetless!]] He was not the predecessor, but the predecessor of you, Minister, and he was a total refusal of reality. I can remember quite clearly that he always meant that everything was fine in the budget discussions. That's what you're saying, Minister, thank God. In this you really differ from Staribacher. I would just like to remind you, even Günter Stummvoll has done this from this speaker's desk: It was the ÖVP and Mr Schüssel in 1995, who said: If we do not initiate budget consolidation, we will no longer achieve the budgets of the next few years! And Schüssel has made this issue a matter of coalition. Unfortunately, God – you have to say that too – we have not been rewarded for this in the then National Council election, but we have caused something to be in motion. Since then, there have been consolidation budgets – at least until 1998, 1999. [[Abg. Scheibner: For this we lack 50 billion!]] - Everything d’accord! The point is now coming, Minister of Finance. We have jointly decided on the tax reform, the family package, and our partyobmann and vice-channer Wolfgang Schüssel, at the time already in January, pointed out that if we also want to maintain this consolidation course, which we have taken, about 10 to 15 billion schillings must be saved. You can prove this with newspaper clips, from the "standard", the "press" or other newspapers. From your side, Minister, it's always said it's going to happen. We have always said that we should set up a task reform commission, develop multiannual budget concepts. For example, I have a "Kurier" article of 24. March 1999, according to which you meant that a new savings package would be excluded: "Certainly, there must be extreme savings in budget execution. In any case, counter-financing shall be provided." It's all right. Then came the ECOFIN Council, and we finally had to hear from you that another so-called discretionary savings package was planned, namely a 20% reduction in discretionary expenditure. – And this is my criticism, Minister! That's exactly the wound point and my criticism. I believe that a linear reduction of 20 percent is not feasible. Although you explained it to us in the Committee on Budgets, I still believe that if I look at the individual ministries, it will not be possible. Take, for example, the Ministry of Future, Education and Culture. If we were to save these 20 percent discretionary expenditure here, we would find out the following: Example Numero one: One would have to consider how to raise the total operating costs of the federal schools, at least 1.4 billion schilling. – Can you save electricity in winter or simply not buy materials or save on the lighting? Second example: There are these cleaning codes, that is, there are key figures for cleaning each school. There are schools that carry out cleaning by their own staff, and there are schools that have distributed the cleaning, doing this to third parties. So these schools have taken care to reduce staff. In the case of discretion expenditure, you cannot save on staff costs, but with the third party, the savings fund should be set up. So those who are trying to save personnel costs would be punished! One can continue these examples, which you, Mr Minister, know, which have also been addressed to you in writing, as I believe. For example, national defence, budget items 40108; this is about arms purchases. It has been decided in the government what we want to buy. – So of the 8.4 billion schilling estimated under this item, 20 percent would be 1.7 billion schilling. But this is not the case, because it should also be taken into account, for example, that, for reasons of continuity at the end of the year, orders or invoices must be transferred to the next annual budget. That's about half a billion schilling again. That means that, in the case of a linear reduction in the budget, more than 2 billion shillings would have to be saved in the defence area! Or another example; I call you a very unwarranted head of department, who does not belong to the ÖVP, namely the Minister of Justice. He also wrote you a letter – I quote: "I voted against a linear reduction in discretionary expenditure and pointed out that, because of the structure of the discretionary expenditure of the judicial body in this area, savings would not be nearly possible to a extent of 20 percent." He lists these "parities" in the case of compensation for imprisonment or medical care in judicial institutions or in the case of energy charges or in the case of rent and rent prepayments? So I can only say, Minister: Take this release back! He's not bringing anything, he's just bringing trouble! Test You really have to list exactly what opportunities we have to bring about long-term structural changes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11207	The next speaker is Mr Dieter Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11231	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to add to the remarks made by my colleague Ulrike Lunacek, who has already explained that the savings fund is obviously set up where it goes, where there is little lobby. I also think that this is an area which is at least relatively highly represented here in the House, namely those of young people. In this area, it is also very well documented that the reduction in discretionary expenditure is an absolute problem. I would like to take a specific example, namely the Austrian Federal Youth Foundation, in which the Austrian youth organisations are represented and organized. There's nothing to do with you 20 percent of the funds. To this end, it must be said that there has already been a reduction of 5 percent in the last year, as a result, within two years only more than 75 percent of the budget of the former, the total amount available. Everyone can imagine how this situation looks. This means that within two years, substantial parts are lost, in particular, in the free budget. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a regulation in the Bundesjugendring – Minister Bartenstein is unfortunately not present – which, in my view, is an intolerable one, namely that those organisations that are to be taken up only when the total funds are increased. Given the current development, it could be said that these organisations should look at sponsoring or other means of financing, because there will probably be no increase in funding in the next few years. These grants not only concern organized youth work, but also concern a large number of youth participation projects, they concern prevention projects and projects in the field of youth institutions, where even now more or less only voluntary work is being done. Obviously – and with this I would like to return to the previous speakers who pointed out that there is no linear reduction – communication with the authorities concerned in the ministries was extremely inadequate. Because the obvious ambiguity there, how exactly this decree is to be made, whether it is linear or whether part of the projects are simply deleted, leads to the fact that on the one hand there are completely different statements from those concerned who have no security at all, and on the other hand no concrete commitments are made. In my opinion, in the end, it is also minor whether 20 percent of the projects are deleted or whether 20 percent of each project is deleted. In both cases, there will be very drastic measures, there will be drastic effects in the field of support. I believe – and this can be seen on the basis of the resolutions that were decided immediately before the election campaign – that there is consensus that youth promotion should be carried out in this Parliament. These savings are, however, a clear contradiction, and they are quite clearly against it. However, I would also like to show some savings that I can imagine in the field of ministries. I believe that the ministerial offices are well equipped that in addition to a structure on civil service, additional posts have been created in the ministries, in which it is possible to save creatively. However, this is probably not an area of discretionary expenditure, so it would be more reasonable for us to be able to save more meaningfully there than for the projects. – That would be an approach. A very clear point relates again to the Ministry of Youth, Minister Bartenstein; but not only. In principle, the advertising budgets of the ministries are actually campaign budgets for the ministers. The information content of these campaigns is in many cases extremely inadequate. Mr Bartenstein provided a wonderful example of this last year. Almost everyone will remember the campaign, which has been noticed because it was widely discussed in the public and in the media, which is actually as stuffed slogans as "I am the boss!" or, "My boss's in the pants!" to have a broad posterated effect in Austria. I know the answer to a question from my colleague Mr Petrovic, who asked the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I can tell you that within just two months, 9.4 million schilling has been powdered here for a campaign that has led primarily to annoyment of the population and those affected. Minister! In view of this experience, your answer to the request that campaigns in similar sizes be planned in the next few years rather than threat. Make a meaningful saving contribution and save us in future such campaigns! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11288	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Bauer. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11309	Mr President. High house! Minister! You say you have the budget under control, you have no problems. I have the impression that you have even radiated some optimism for the next budget year. Now I do not want to ask a highly qualified analyst or a professional coffee student to distinguish reality and wishful thinking, but all serious, Mr Minister: If you say that you have the budget under control, I ask you, on behalf of the Austrian economy, to join the so unjust 13 next year. Tax prepayment of VAT! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – A sting in the Austrian economy! I call on you to finally reduce the additional wage costs to the European level, so that we – with far more than 100 percent – do not lead the European summit! Help Finally, you ask the Austrian economy to ensure competitiveness! Come on. For example, you are opposed to the economic operator by not taxing profits that are not recovered, simply not taxing them! Minister! I don't want to know today as a Christmas wish, I don't want to send this as a letter to the Christian Child: If you are an economic growth as a basis for your tax policy, I would like to say to you that you are reforming your tax policy towards the economic operators in such a way that they are able to get back on track from the critical trail. I ask you, Minister, to take this very seriously. It was not taken seriously in the past, otherwise it could not be the case that the Chamber of Commerce has long been eating in countless unsuccessful applications, with a president who in the meantime already serves as a lay preacher to point out the failure. I don't want to talk about the Wifo and the KSV forecasts at all. It would have to be that the expertise of a minister is usually sufficient to guarantee a better, more competitive and economic future for our businesses. I believe that this is long overdue and therefore urgently necessary. A reform that has long been in place!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11351	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. The remaining speaking time of the green club is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11373	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! No one holding something on will express himself against a reasonable, responsible and purposeful saving. However, a 20 percent reduction in discretionary expenditure is to be ordered linearly and horizontally by all sectors, as simple as it is imaginative, and yet allows the question of persistent long-term concepts and strategies which go beyond what is usually debated in savings associations. Some of you still remember the ruster paper, the concept of the so-called technology offensive of the Federal Government. They also remember the famous or – I should say – notorious technology billions. They also recall that the Federal Government, even the Federal President, has just recently known how to emphasize the need for a focus on education and research. A new offensive was planned. Its objective was to raise the proportion of research and development in gross domestic product in Austria to a standard that meets comparable European standards. As you know, Austria has taken a place almost last-class. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] Have we not heard recently that education and science are the future opportunities of our youth and thus of our country? – You remember, I hope. One offensive hunts the other, and in front of loud offensives one is tried to believe that the government understands itself as a rapid intervention force or we are already in NATO. You know how I am: Both do not correspond to reality. For me, it is simply a problem of credibility if we are to save sensitively where the focus and offensive media have recently been planned. I do not protegrate the popular Floriani principle, but I use for myself and for all other Austrians to understand and understand politics, and you can believe me: In principle, I feel able to do so if the conditions are met. Why does the Savingstift particularly meet universities, science and education? First: 80 percent of all research services are provided at universities and are therefore financed from public funds. All research funds – FWF, FFF, the Academy of Sciences – are mainly financed by the state. These funds have an international reputation and play an outstanding role in promoting young scientists in Austria. Those 2.4 billion schilling savings that are expected in the science community correspond to the fourfold budget of the Austrian Science Fund. Secondly, Private sponsors and third-party funds are not able to relieve the public sector in Austria with their economic and industrial structure despite other claims. Even private universities, as well as some of them may like here – whether by McDonalds or Siemens – will not be able to replace the state education and research assignment in the future and, as I believe, will not be able to do so. Thirdly, 90 percent of public funds for universities are fixed by current targeted expenditure. The reduction in discretion expenditure by 2.4 billion schilling therefore crucially calls into question the last weak rest of manoeuvrability and the possibility of an innovative focus. Fourth: Vocational training courses, study programmes and, last but not least, women's promotion measures must now be concerned about their budgets. Unfortunately, fairness in this area is not a category I want to rely on. And now a little tip: For three years, university clinics have not implemented the Working Time Act for Health professionals. The cost of this is just under a billion schillings. Here, at the expense of the research budget, the Federal Government finances a patient care task assigned to the countries. However, this would require courage and willingness to conflict. Federal Minister Edlinger! I think you – even if some people do not like to hear it now – are a man of upright conduct and social attitude. I would therefore ask you to leave the horizontal view of saving and remember the emphasis of the government as well as your party. It is true that education and science are an investment in the future. But also confidence and faith in political programmes should not be easily put at risk, because they are an investment in voters.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11438	Mr Böhacker has now come to speak. The remaining speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11459	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Finanzminister, I have a bit of a problem with how to weigh your answers today. Have you given it as a private man, as a new finance minister, as a provisional finance minister, as a wanted finance minister or as a perhaps doch-re-finance minister? What position did you answer from? In the beginning, you meant you were expressing your private opinion here. On the other hand, you have immediately said that you cannot say anything about it because there is no federal government. So what did you really say today? – In principle, very many words with little content. Federal Minister! They have repeatedly pointed out that there has been a successful consolidation of the 1997 and 1998 budgets. But they have always kept silent as they have. Mr. Finanzminister, you have strapped two huge load packs. The consolidation didn't make you, that paid the citizen and taxpayer. - That's the first one. Minister! They have made massive advances on future budgets. It's already been cut. There are still the unscrupulous 13ths. Sales tax date. ==References== December, is this date! 16 billion Schilling cashier Today, at the expense of the next budget. Federal Minister! They have suspended the allowances – with the result that millions of Austrian workers had to wait for years for their pay-free payments. They have suspended the loss talks, which has a huge impact on the Austrian economy. Contrary to all economic and tax principles, you have postponed the losses. And all these one-time measures, these advances, you'll get them now. It is therefore also true that you will face serious difficulties with the 2000 budget. Today, the Court of Auditors has found: Budget 2000 charged by disbursement of the zero coupon funds. What did you do? – They dissolved these funds in 1997 and 1998, the 1997 budget increased by 1.2 billion and by 4.7 billion schilling in 1998. Budgets 2000, 2007 and 2016 will be taxed. Mr Finanzminister! By 2016, you have made an advance on revenue. This is a deep grip on the budget policy trick box, and the truth has you or will catch you up. Federal Minister! You have really answered some questions simply and decisively, such as question 9 in connection with possible tax adjustments and tax increases. You have dizzyed by saying that you will not agree to an increase in the tax rate. What tax rate? [[Federal Minister Edlinger: The Austrian!]] Do you mean the 1997, 1998, 1999 or 2000 tax rate? Tell me what the starting point you have! Sage You don't: Okay, we're taking the tallest from the last ten years, and we're not raising them. This too is a trick from the budget moth box. Federal Minister! In summary: Their budgetary policy is the wood from which the defeats of social democracy in the elections are carved. Keep going, then you'll lose the next choice again!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11495	Please take the seats. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate in the course of the urgent question is therefore closed. We shall vote on Mrs Lunacek's motion for a resolution on ensuring the financial resources for bilateral development cooperation. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request give a sign. – That's the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Ironic Ah! and Oh!-Call at the liberals, when Deputies Dr. Van der Bellen and Dr. Pilz rise only with delay from the seats.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Hardly the mushroom with the greens, it doesn't work anymore! The mushroom irritates the greens!]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11549	We shall come next for a short debate. This debate concerns the request made by Mrs Petrovic, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 15/A concerning a Federal Animal Protection Act, a period of time until 24. The year 2000 is the year to be set up. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the first speaker has 10 minutes at his disposal for reasons and that all other speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. I call Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11576	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have made three requests for deadlines. The current debate refers in particular to animal welfare, but of course we want and hope that all three popular desires will be dealt with as soon as possible and that at least some demands of the hundreds of thousands of Austrians who have signed these popular desires will finally be met. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] ==References====External links== October, which, for the two still-government parties, perhaps re-government parties, has ended with a great disappointment, often to hear sentences such as: We have understood the people's voting behaviour. We know we have to make changes, make improvements. – And just on the part of the Austrian People's Party it was also possible to hear: We must strengthen the elements of direct democracy in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! You now have the opportunity to implement these announcements, which you have made in the first shock after the elections, now also in fact. A more direct democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, cannot be limited to having a debate on the right to vote in letter, because I think that the people would have little understanding of this if they were perhaps to expand their choices for some, but what the people actually want to be involved in decisions or to decide for themselves, is still being pushed to the long bank. I believe that there is no clearer sign of the population than three very successful people's desires, which have reached 450 000 signatures, more than 600 000 signatures, and even 1.2 million signatures. All in all, these are well over 2 million people – perhaps partly identical – who, after a long discussion of the content of popular desires, have made wishes directly to the High House, and very precise wishes! I no longer think that one meeting of the Constitutional Committee after another will end with saying: Unfortunately, we do not reach an agreement, it must be postponed again. – I think until the end of January, until the 24. January, would be plenty of time to take up the debates that have already been held x-fold again and then finally to come to a conclusion on the matter. As far as animal welfare is concerned, I think everything that may have been questionable has been really often discussed – it is about the one and only requirement of a federal animal welfare law – and in the negotiations all the objections that may have occurred at some point in time have been removed that the standards might be lowered in the better national laws. There is a draft which is based on the best standards, but which also takes into account the real situation in agriculture, in which pet farming enables it to respond flexibly. It is only to say yes or no to this draft, and I think that at least this right has the population: a clear yes, from me also no, to hear. If you take this course again, as in the last legislative period, which has contributed so much to the mutilation in this country and ultimately only increases protest votes, or also increases the number of non-electors, then this process will no longer be understood at all. Because after the election, make the confession: We have learned that we want to change, we want to strengthen the elements of direct democracy!, and then these three people's desires, all of which you have put in drawers, not once again to delay, to roll on, to treat – how long do you think you can continue this process? The population has spoken about this, and it will probably also be the question of how to deal with the elements of direct democracy in the future. If you are facing yourself: There were exactly two referendums in this Second Republic; one on EU accession – you had to make them because that was absolutely provided in the Constitution – and a de facto on the nuclear power plant in Zwentendorf – in which the population, as we know afterwards, made a very, very, very wise decision that saved Austria from serious damage. Do you think that's enough? Two referendums since the beginning of the Second Republic? And what about this level of political starkness, which is all being complained of? Now we know that we have two government parties in this House, which have very different positions in very important respects, such as security policy, such as in women's and equality policies, in parts of the anti-discrimination policy. How do you want to deal with these points if you might get back to a government? How in the last legislative period? From one committee to the next and, no matter how the population, no matter how the media articulate, say: We have no common position, so there is no Austrian position. I consider the question of animal welfare to be a small but not unimportant point. But there are many other points where I cannot imagine that the government parties are now finding a common position overnight. If it were not really wiser and more democratically reasonable that you now agree on the occasion of the three popular desires, which already existed, on at least one procedure, that you say that where it is apparently not possible to come to a common position, we will open the way for a direct democratic decision. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Two people's desires, that's nothing at all! Look at neighboring abroad! You don't necessarily have to look into Switzerland right now, but I think the population is ripe and mouthy enough to make a decision in many matters. And that's why: We will take you to the floor. You said you wanted to strengthen direct democracy, you want to change, you want the result from 3. Take it seriously on October. Now you have the opportunity. Vote! It is only a matter of setting deadlines, it is not yet about the content of a federal animal welfare law or the women's demands or the demands of genetic engineering critics. It is simply a matter of defining this house: We want the matter until the 24. The Committee's members are dealing with and completing their work. I do not think it would be too much to ask you to give this committee your vote today and stand up for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11657	Mrs Perfuss has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11679	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Petrovic! Dear Greens! To pre-empt it: We cannot agree to your request for deadlines. I should also like to point out why we cannot agree. First of all, to the basics. At the last meeting, the Greens took over the results of the "Volksbehren für einem Bundes- Tierschutzgesetz" platform and submitted it as their application. That this is a formal acquisition I want to leave uncommented. Don't worry about it! The application is now under way. We have already debated this at the last session, and at the time I stressed in the debate and clearly stated that we social democrats, of course, are in favour of a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act and are committed to it, even in view of the fact that the people want such a law. I am constantly confronted with this – probably also you, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic – that people are addressing us, writing us and expressing the desire or the demand that they want a federal animal welfare law in Austria. That is why we also say a very clear yes to a federal animal protection law! But, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, a deadline until 24. January 2000 is illusory. It is therefore illusory because... – 2000! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: 3000? Would 3000 be okay? We make an amendment: up to 3000!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) That's not the council!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Did I say 3000? Let me explain why. This period is therefore illusory because of the fact that the platform's request has been drawn up "People's desire for a Federal Animal Protection Act", which has been introduced by the Greens, can only be a basis for discussion. There are other requests to be made and discussed. Given the abundance of content, there is much to work through, to discuss a lot. We must first agree on the content of this proposal, which is indeed to be drawn up in a common sense. This, of course, requires a wider time frame than until 24. January 2000. I would like to highlight one point and point it out as an example, namely Section 4 on the slaughter and killing of animals. I think that § 25 is a bit problematic, at least it is worthy of discussion, because Article 14 of the Constitutional Law is to be taken into account in respect of Article 4 on chess. This article 14 ensures freedom of faith and free exercise of faith and guarantees free religious exercise, for example, of the Israeli Cultus Church or of the persons of the Jewish confession and of the Muslims. However, the shaft or shafting of animals is a cornerstone of the exercise of these religions, and that is also represented in this way. That means we need to talk about it! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There have long been regulations!]] There are many different approaches, and I would like to stress that this is just one point we need to discuss. I could do you a few more. In conclusion: We are in favour of a uniform federal regime. In this respect, I feel in good company with the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Dr. Fierce. He said today at the press conference that in some areas federal competences would be more useful than to regulate everything separately nine times. – His Word in God’s Ear!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11754	Mr Schwarzenberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Constitution regulates the competences of the federal and federal states. The agricultural competences currently lie with the federal states, and a transfer of competence... – Mrs Lichtenberger! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... a black majority!]] They were there in Tyrol when the Tyroleans passed their own animal welfare law and praised it as one of the best of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I want the Tyrolean regulation to benefit everyone!]] A transfer of competence from the countries to the Federation would definitely have to be negotiated with the countries. I'm sure you can't do that until 24. Yes, it is! Rather, it is the task of the government negotiations to define the objectives and distribution of competence, i.e. which competences in the next legislative period of the federal government and which the federal states have. There has been an almost finished request for a state reform for years, and it should be finally implemented. In this request for state reform, the competences would be regulated. To withdraw the competences from the federal states without having negotiated with them in advance would be very alarming! Just driving across the countries with the two-thirds majority, so to speak, cannot be the style of this house! The countries have tried to bring about uniform standards. Since 1995, there has been an Article 15a agreement, which is provided for in our Federal Constitution and in which the countries have agreed on a uniform level. All of this has already been implemented by national laws. And in November 1998, an Article 15a Treaty was concluded setting pet farming at national level at uniform standards. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But not mass animal husbandry, is it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What bothers us beyond this draft is excessive bureaucracy. If you imagine that every farm, as stated in this draft law, must be examined by the authority at least once a year, even if there is no suspicion of animal torture or the like. There are 180 000 livestock holdings. And if an animal protection authority is to be set up in each county headquarters, that means that we need 500 to 1,000 additional officials throughout Austria. . I would point out that today we have devoted most of the day to the question of how we can save budget resources. I quote literally from the draft law: "The Regulation, in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article. In any event, 2 has to provide funds for the following matters: the financing of the investment effort and the ongoing personnel and material effort of the Animal Protection Prosecutor's Office; the granting of aid to promote animal-friendly farming animals within the meaning of the animal-righteous index;" – there is also an opinion of the University of Soil Culture, which counts the costs of stable buildings with 34 billion schilling – "the promotion of the establishment and conservation of animal shelters and the promotion of the ongoing costs of animal shelters; the granting of grants to practice veterinarians for the medical treatment of domestic animals of needy and mediocre persons";" – why not the same for poor farmers? – "the financing of appropriate measures to promote animal welfare in society, in particular in education, education and education; the financing of research and development work in the field of animal welfare." - Quote. It would be billions that we would have to provide for this in the next budgets! And what's more, here's what I'm saying: All regulations are adopted by the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs – without the cooperation of the Minister of Agriculture! – Every animal auction, each animal exhibition must be approved, and there must be an animal protection officer present. Another thing: The dignity of the animal – § 2 para. 2, including insects and spiders, these are literally called – should be raised in the constitutional rank as a state target, while, for example, I must say this sadly, the unborn child in the womb does not enjoy protection; even so far it has been refused to raise marriage and family in the constitutional rank. It is also stated in § 51 concerning the transitional provisions that each holding must have effected its structural changes within one year under this Regulation. – I emphasize: 34 billion schilling within a year to build stable buildings! This matter cannot be negotiated here in Parliament within a month in which Christmas holidays fall. We will therefore not give our consent to the request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11858	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11880	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has achieved that you have been confronted with this bill project, that you have looked into it – I really want to record a progress in this regard. I do not fully understand why you oppose the fact that we are continuing to debate as you have just begun. In principle, we liberals agree to a deadline. This does not prejudice the outcome of this deadline or the application. Perhaps you too will soon be grateful – after the current party decisions you are in the middle of an opposition role – for being able to carry on a subject with deadlines. In the debate in this regard, it was sufficiently confirmed during the last session that this popular desire expressed the Austrians' desire quite uniformly and clearly. From the point of view of this popular desire, a proposal for a law has emerged, but it does not agree to 100%. We liberties would like to express their views on the relevant issues in the Committee and are also opposed, for example, to the full implementation of what is required at the bureaucratic level. But I find it remarkable that you are dealing with bureaucratic obstacles, Mr President Schwarzenberger. If I can light up your professional environment a little: It's not exactly where the bureaucracy is stored! But be it! This may be a bit covered there or there. It is clear that we liberals very soon want to talk about this federal animal welfare law. The lead time took long enough. It is not until the last week that I got my hands on the draft law on fisheries. This is about the Steiermärkische Landes-Fischreigesetz. There are a total of nine national fishing laws, and in one all nine agree: The animal welfare aspect is strengthened in all nine national laws. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There are also nine hunting laws!]] For example, you stop living, you stop fishing competitions et cetera. Animal welfare has a uniform and consistent priority through these national laws, and there is no reason why – you can see that when you look at the individual national laws – there are indeed nine different. The less there is a reason for this – I find no, Mr Schwarzenberger and my rulings by the ÖVP! – that one is so vehemently opposed to a relevant law. Let us talk about it, let us also talk about it within the time limit, and really remember that setting a time limit is one of the few possibilities of an opposition party to pursue a topic further! And I say it again: Maybe it's going to be. They will soon be able to do so and will be very careful to set deadlines. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11917	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11939	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard in the remarks of our colleagues that we Greens are, as it were, using a formal collection procedure, Mrs Parfuss. On the other hand, on behalf of my group, I would like to be very clear about this. We see it as a very important instrument of democracy, a popular desire to implement a referendum here quickly. Let's not forget: Years have passed, and nothing has happened! We want to take a new step here, we want to bring democracy policy to this Parliament too, we want to continue with this federal uniform animal welfare law! Mr Schwarzenberger! Let me address some of the points that you have listed here the other day, although this would in itself be a task for the Committee. It is also our offer to you: If you have understood us correctly, then you must know that we are not concerned that this proposal should contain point by point precisely in the law, but that is a draft! Please understand! This is a draft, and you are invited to discuss constructively, to raise your concerns quickly so that we can finally get a concrete federal animal welfare law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have received your last opinion on 18. In November, it was said: Somewhere has to be a border. – Yes, Mr Schwarzenberger! There has to be a limit, and that is when this federal uniform animal welfare law is to be removed! A border has to be set here, and we are in the process of implementing it. Indeed, it is very worrying that we have been holding back for years a law and a concern that 460 000 citizens have signed in that country! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have implemented this with Article 15a agreements with the countries!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! It is also a failure with regard to the admittedly difficult situation of our farmers. These too want clear conditions, they want to know what they should be oriented to and how animal husbandry should continue. They have also addressed excessive control over excessive bureaucracy. . We now have an agricultural system, which is highly bureaucratic, which devours billions of schilling in the context of the promotion process! And you accuse us of wanting to introduce bureaucracy, where you yourself are responsible for the current bureaucracy, Mr Schwarzenberger?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: AMA pays 20 billion and controls 5 percent of businesses! With you, 100 percent of businesses are controlled without suspicion!]] They are talking about 34 billion Schilling investments, deputies. But at present, billions of Schilling are investing in non-artifactural animal husbandry, and this is due to the legal basis, to the relevant directives which are currently different from one country to another. These investment directives should be revised once, on the basis of a federal animal welfare law. That's what you should write in your master book! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally – we should not forget that too – it is also about the market. We want marketable products, and the consumer also wants clear statements. He wants to know that this product comes from animal husbandry. To do this – and I repeat, I did this the last time – we also need a federal uniform animal welfare law and therefore a uniform AMA mark based on this law, Mr Schwarzenberger. I would therefore ask all the Members present here, including the representatives of agriculture, to give themselves a back and finally get into the concrete debate. We Greens support this deadline proposal and hope you will also agree to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12016	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 15/A concerning a Federal Animal Protection Act, a period of until 24. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12052	I will resume the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12076	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If officials are being negotiated, the salary increase of some 130 000 teachers in Austria will also be decided. [[Secretary of State Dr. Ruttenstorfer speaks to Abg. Nürnberger.]] – Mr State Secretary! [[Secretary of State Dr. Ruttenstorfer concludes the conversation and takes place on the government bank.]] Mr State Secretary! When it comes to the salaries of 130,000 teachers, can that not be quite uninteresting for you, can it? Above all, a 1.5 percent or 2-percent increase in content is already quite a matter of weight: After all, it's about 3 billion schilling. The interesting thing about this salary increase is, Mr State Secretary, everyone gets the salary increase – regardless of whether or not a corresponding contribution is provided, because that is never really checked in this profession. The current system also rewards those who are not willing to meet the diverse requirements of teachers. There are a number of requirements to be met or to be met by the teacher today. For example, the preparation and follow-up of teaching is not made by many who have chosen the teaching profession at the time because there is more leisure time in this profession. The internal dialogue between teachers and joint conception of subjects of cross-border courses and project work is not carried out by many, but by others to a very special extent – which are far beyond what is required. The dialogue between teachers and parents is carried out by some, not by others. The pedagogical discussion with the students, the technical training – it is a very special concern to me – is not a necessary condition to obtain a salary increase. Whether a teacher is educated or not today, at a time when knowledge is multiplying within the shortest time, is not a decisive basis for a salary increase, Mr State Secretary. I could still make a lot of such points. We liberals have therefore thought about redesigning the teacher's remuneration, and I would be interested in what the government representative says about this redesign of the salary system for teachers. We believe that the remuneration should consist of three components: the basic content, which rises between initial and final cover in a relatively flat curve. With this basic content, the biennial jumps should be maintained, but they should be linked to specialised training. At least one five-day training should be done per subject and year, Mr State Secretary, and that outside the teaching time. Furthermore, there should be a function component that is completely independent of the age of service. The responsibility and performance associated with the exercise of a particular function should therefore be remunerated. As the latter, a service component should be used to compensate for the individual performance, which is also paid off from the service age principle. This is mainly intended to promote the planning, preparation, implementation and follow-up of projects and school events of all kinds, about which there have now been so many discussions. They recall the discussion on § 61. This would be removed if this service component, the function component and the basic content, as described just now, were to be introduced, Mr State Secretary, because then we would have to prepare a performance-related salary, which takes into account whether teachers are willing to carry out their duties, or to use their existence in school to prepare the time they spend outside school accordingly, which should also be the case. Mr State Secretary! I would be interested to hear your opinion on this proposal from us liberals during this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12146	The Secretary of State has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12167	Mr President. High house! I can reply very briefly: This is implemented by contract staff law. First: Contract staff law has a much flatter curve. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For teachers!]] Secondly, Contract staff law has a uniform functional allowance – not after the age! That is the second essential point. And thirdly, it has a power component. This has already been implemented in areas of administration. The next step is that this should also be implemented towards teachers, I mean, also towards university teachers. Thank you. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What's that supposed to look like?]] - That's right.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12210	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12230	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I cannot join this teacher's discussion, Mr Schweitzer, because this is a very specific area and I do not know enough about the teacher's remuneration. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But 130 000 are quite a lot!]] I'll clear that up. I return, however, to what is the main subject of this debate today, namely not only the quotation adjustments of 14 laws, but also the increase in pensions and pensions in the public service, i.e. in the Federal Service, the backbone of an economy, as the Secretary of State noted today a few hours ago. We are all aware of the simple fact that wages and salaries do not rise by themselves, not by themselves gain in height. This is reality and not a trivial saying. I am always surprised – more and more often lately – how large the number of those people who do not know at all how wages and salaries come to be and gain in height, do not know that trade unions year after year, wage rounds for wage rounds for self-employed people enter, negotiate and, as you say so beautifully, their interests are perceived. While the expression "perceiving their interests" in the public representation has now become an unword. And only in such a climate is it possible for interest and union work to become a synonym for "rocking", "betoning" and "brake". [[Abg. Scheibner: A little self-criticism would also be appropriate!]] Of course, such vocabulary, Mr Scheibner, is also an instrument of making the mood – also of yours! . which appears to have to accompany the salary negotiations. The evasions and lump-sum suspicions, however, are also an expression of deep ignorance and ignorance of democratic processes and rules of play, Mr Scheibner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] There are always groups like yours in a democracy that benefit from the ignorance of others. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, the people are all too stupid! This is the constituency we always like to hear from you!]] Therefore, the personnel representation elections in the Federal Republic of Germany have been admirable. They have shown that the proportion of those who know, but still make up the majority. [[Abg. Scheibner: People are all too stupid to understand why you take away the money, why you have the proportion!]] – Do you want to take advantage of my speaking time? [[Abg. Scheibner: No!]] Or can I use my speaking time? [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't need to insult the Austrians that they are stupid!]] The increase in remuneration, additional fees and allowances for public servants by 1.5 percent... – What do you want? [[Abg. Scheibner: No knowledge of why you lose the elections!]] Are you from me? Do we want to have a conversation here now, or can I use my speaking time? [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The increase in remuneration for public servants by 1.5 percent is a reasonable result, especially considering that the minimum increase by 300 S for low income corresponds to an increase of almost 2 percent. The chosen path, namely the combination of a percentage increase... – Here you best ask Mr. Gaugg, who can do such things quite well. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What about Mr. Workers?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: As a Social Democratic, you can do everything!]] Mr Gaugg has not done something that Mr. Workers has done, because he has relinquished his mandate. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The chosen path, namely the combination of a percentage increase and a minimum amount, is absolutely correct from a social and income-political point of view. Depending on the point of view, the increase is assessed: from the government side as still acceptable, by the trade union as a good result – and I join it. I think that the increase in the amount of the pension is only 33 s per month is absolutely insufficient. The last word has not yet been spoken here. [[Abg. Gaugg: That was a weak defense for the worker!]] I would also like to point out that the public sector staff have made a significant contribution to fiscal consolidation year after year – since we have to take a look back. In his speech today, the Secretary of State has already referred to the significant and substantial changes in the public sector. This time, too, the public servants contribute by means of a moderate increase to the reorganisation of the government budget. I would like to stress this, since my group currently seems to be the only one who is willing to take responsibility for the budget. What I said on the content of the salary accounts is particularly true of the pension adjustment decided in the same way as the ASVG. In this area, the implementation of a social component was implemented even more decisively by a graduated adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen! The pension adjustment costs a total of 3,65 billion schilling. It is welcome that of these 1.45 billion Schillings are used for small and medium-sized pensions. That means: Pensions are increased by 0.6 percent, and in addition, 1.45 billion Schillings are spent, in percentages and fixed amounts, in order to achieve social compensation and guarantee value assurance. This means, however, an increase of 1.5 to 2.5 percent for the lowest pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen! We can all be satisfied with the result. In my eyes, it's not a bad result for so-called brakes and concrete heads.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12414	The next speaker is Mr Windholz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12436	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! The remuneration schedule and the service schedule of the public service are a truly opaque system, a jungle. It has not changed anything to the positive, especially in the field of executives, to which I would like to go a little closer. The so-called executive scheme has been introduced as a salary scheme in which there is a so-called functional allowance in addition to the service salary and also for senior officials. The Secretary of State has said that there is no difference in other areas from the age of service – but very well here. I'll try and get you a little closer to the jungle. It should first be distinguished whether a classification is made in the E 1 or E 2a categories of use. It then continues with functional groups, in E 1 from 1 to 11 and in E 2a from 1 to 7. But that's not enough! It is then divided into four functional stages, and this is about the service age. I am going to bring you closer to you, Mrs Mertel, and I am sure it is a positive conclusion for some, but for many it is incomprehensible. For example, if a classification is given in E 1, Function Group 11, a younger colleague will receive 12 875 p. An older colleague, standing just before the pension, receives for the same function, but for the same degree of responsibility 36 482 S – almost three times as much! And in this the 1.5 percent is actually down: For the younger colleague, the increase is 190 S, but for the one who is about to retire, 539 p. If you keep this in mind, it becomes clear to you that this is a positive conclusion for some, but for many it is incomprehensible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Pendl of SPÖ has said that this has been successfully completed. Mr President, I should like to thank In your speech, only the incense boiler was missing. They also mentioned the conclusions for 1998 and 1999. I will therefore remind you of how the conclusions for 1996 and 1997 looked out. At that time, there were actually zero wage rounds for the public service. You have, of course, forgotten to mention that. The Additional Fees Act is amended. In this context, Mr Tancsits spoke of the ÖVP – which is remarkable – even about progress. I can bring you your "progress" for the executive in recent times: It was a massive step back, because here nothing else has been changed but the division factor so that more additional charges are required for the same benefit – pension contributions are paid for overtime. As a rule, I say, in the executive measure of that measure which can be achieved one will also actually exceed what is due to the compulsorily arrangement of overtime, overtime in the amount of 100 hours and more monthly. That is in fact unreasonable! The high divorce rate of executives certainly does not arise by themselves. There are no answers from the Federal Government. The only answer from the State Secretary Ruttensdorfer's office is that he sends out the savings commissioners, who usually deal only with how to interpret the BDG's provisions in terms of shift and change to the disfavors of officials, so that instead of a 100-200-percent supplement, they are only fed by one of 50 per cent. But also the travel fee requirement – because the word already has everything in it; it is a law, but it is called "regulatory" – is very difficult to understand, so that even the service and senior authorities are very difficult to understand. Mr State Secretary! In your place of business, it took almost a year to clarify the travel fee scheme in case of service in the requested customs offices. This shows once again that the whole system is antique, often incomprehensible and, above all, unfair. Mr State Secretary! This system has in fact been in operation for a long time. I will not ask you, however, to make further corrections here. You have not done this in recent years, and in the few weeks and months in which you are still in this office, you will probably not get away with anything else.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12499	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 10 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft is adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (3 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Road Use Tax Act (7 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12553	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. The rapporteur is Mr Kiermaier. – He does not wish the word. Mrs Lichtenberger has spoken. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12581	Ladies and gentlemen! We are speaking today – a pity that the Minister of Finance is no longer here! – through a potential source of revenue for the Austrian budget. Today, however, we are also talking about the fact that this source of revenue is far from being exhausted, for very interesting reasons, as I will later carry out, despite the enormous cost of road transport, especially of truck transport. The current novelle does not bring any new ones, but only a small change over what we have had to experience since accession to the European Union, in which the tax on road use has been enormously reduced. Our dear colleagues from the Frachterschaft are in regret of the rising costs of truck transport, but you only need to remember for a few years, a few years, in order to see it differently. I'm allowed to make a small comparison from practice, which might make this clear. I don't want to juggle with years and so on, but as an example we simply take the route Reschen–Fernpass. For these, a further 1 000 S had to be paid before the in-force pace of the EU transitional arrangements in 1994. This amount was reduced to 240 S in 1995 and was reduced in 1996 to 158 S and in 1997 to 80 S scandalous. In some categories of vehicles, these 80 S will now again be increased to the same lean 110 S. According to the new directive or the new draft, the whole is now based on emission classes. So there are classifications for trucks based on their exhaust values. Well, that would be good and nice, and that could certainly be considered an ecological measure, if, indeed, if not these emission classes were a very theoretical matter, insofar as the emissions of a truck were not measured, as the well-informed layman might assume, but based on the information available in paper form. But here – unfortunately the Minister of Finance is not here – there was a good source of revenue. Experts can prove this clearly: Whether it be in the area of accidents, whether it is generally after many years of operation, whether due to poor maintenance, the real exhaust values are also from very low-gas trucks after a few years of operation no longer what is in the paper, because of which such a truck has less to pay. The result of the budget: A 100 million schilling loss! First of all, this may sound relatively small, but if you were thinking about the cuts already discussed today in the various areas, I would think that these 100 million would be real: for example, through real exhaust gas control, but also – and now I come to a very central issue – by changing the Road Costs Directive at European level. You will certainly recall the debates carried out by ex-Commissioner Kinnock on the Road Costs Directive of the European Union and on a new transport policy, and I would particularly like to take up a quote which is very interesting in this regard. The European Union thus adopted a Road Costs Directive, and at the same time, or before, it issued a White Paper entitled "Faire and efficient transport prices". In this, the finding is as follows: Transport prices should cover not only private costs, but also external costs to be calculated on the basis of the environmental impact of transport, traffic congestion losses, accidents and other external effects. . If you knew this directive or this White Paper, you were actually quite optimistic that financial solutions could finally be found at European level for the enormous overdose of the road network and traffic, for the permanent subsidisation of road networks. However, the directive itself – and it should be sufficiently well known – does not take into account anything, but not at all of external costs. It covers only construction and maintenance costs for the road network. How strictly this directive is interpreted, you can find this today and in the coming weeks and months at the discussion about the action against the Brenner-Maut. Here it becomes quite clear that it is not permitted to include the accompanying road network, but that it is purely about the construction and maintenance costs on the road. This road cost directive – and we will still have to have this debate here – cannot cost us 100 million by means of the Brenner-Mout complaint, if it is successful, like this thing that we decide on today, but these costs will go to the billions. There will be a loss of revenue here that will tear huge holes into the budget. In particular, given the fact that a large number of new road constructions are planned, from my point of view, there is a clear risk that this will have to come out of the general budget, because this will no longer be eligible for funding from the ASFINAG funds. So these fair and efficient prices for transport have not been achieved at European level, and here in our directive, the framework for possible better taxation of road transport has not even been used up. But let us continue to talk about the money that is spent on the other side of Europe and Austria for this road construction. In TEN development at European level, EUR 13.7 billion has been allocated to Objective 1 regions between 1994 and 1999. From the Structural Funds 70 percent go to road construction – not to help farmers, not to help small and medium-sized enterprises: no, to road construction! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But not in Austria!]] The Cohesion Fund also covers half of the funds in road construction. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But not in Austria!]] If you say, Mr Kukacka, not in Austria, I ask you where you will take the barley for the GSD network. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... because we don't get it there!]] This will be an exciting debate for the next few years and, I would say now, decades. For financing will become even more difficult by so little taxation in road transport, by such small charges that do not even come in terms of cost coverage, and this in view of the fact that we do not only have the funds for road construction, but that this road construction creates high-level high-performance routes with its efficiency, which are then equally high-ranking and high-performance. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... does not prevail!]] You may have heard what happened after 8. December played on Austria's roads: closed columns of trucks over a length of over 40 kilometers! This is not really a coincidence: We are the cheap Jacob of Europe on this issue! With us you can pass through so cheaply that I wonder very slowly, why we don't even give them the bump for having the grace to pollute the environment with us a little! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Contradict with ODP MPs.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is the same everywhere in the EU!]] These transport structures have led to a 42 percent increase in traffic between 1991 and 1998 in Western Austria, especially on the Brenner motorway. According to official statistics, there was not a total annual increase in the truck sector below 5 percent in Western Austria. These burdens have their consequences and their consequential costs. These costs seem nowhere, ladies and gentlemen! They will be financed from the general budget pot. We have official evidence from a study of the WHO Ministerial Conference on the Environment and Health in London of June 1999, which raises health costs from road transport to 45 million euros. These are huge sums that will come from somewhere but which are hidden. Even if they are not open, they are still to pay. This sum covers only the health costs related to diseases, but not the cost of accidents, which are added here. Another aspect is the environmental costs caused by the destruction or damage of vegetation. Another external cost effect results from the separation, but also from the loss of jobs in the region, which in turn leads to an increase in commuting. Even the European Union acknowledges that the strong subsidy for transport has not resulted in the remote regions being able to bring their economic assets all the better into the central area, no: First and foremost, it leads to the centres being able to transport their goods cheaper into the periphery and there to destroy the last structures, which also mean jobs. These processes must be demonstrated and understood by examples from different countries, from Spain to Finland, but also Austria. These studies, my reigns of SPÖ and ÖVP, should lead you once to mind! Perhaps you would then rethink some expenses for additional new road constructions – I say now as an old optimist. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: As a young optimist!]] You will now say that this is the general traffic, the general traffic burden, to which everyone and everyone here contributes with his or her own car. The cost of truck transport, which is primarily discussed here, should be 25 percent, but is actually only 17 percent. However, with this new work to be decided today, there will be no increase but, on the contrary, a reduction. The additional costs caused by overloaded trucks – and that as a small detail at the edge, which could perhaps also mean a savings measure at the federal level – are as the latest Court of Auditors report shows, 35 million schilling, just because the control density is no longer given the extent to which it would be necessary. 7 to 8 percent of trucks are generally overloaded, and the damage caused by overloaded trucks increases by 42 percent each. These are technical data that you need to read something into, but I would wish, yes, to all of us that You would not constantly treat freight as a sacred cow with the transport policy segment, provided it concerns budget and prices, and you would not constantly treat it as a sacred cow in this House, by subsidising it to the point of no longer going, without even using the worst possible savings potential. No, we do not even use the scope of the European Road Costs Directive optimally, and, as the last finding, neither the Minister for the Environment nor the Minister for Transport, even the Ministers of Finance have swallowed their fingers at European level in order to bring about a reasonable road cost directive! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12706	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Today, we are once again discussing the Road Use Tax Act and its amendments, which I believe are going in the right direction, are certainly more environmentally-political in terms of meeting the requirements than has been the case so far, but, of course, the problem at the heart – and this has also been addressed by my previous speaker – does not solve it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... This is the problem!]] There's no discussion about this for me, that's it. Now it's true that once you analyze this very carefully, we've been talking about road pricing for trucks in Austria since 1992. You have not mentioned this, Mrs Lichtenberger, but that is not a problem. You can talk about it, we don't have an argument. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Enjoy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Enjoy! No problem!]] The Trans-Route study was commissioned at the time, I think, by Federal Minister Schüssel. We then passed a federal law in 1996, which even provided for an appointment and after which the road pricing for trucks should have been introduced in 1998. Only that has not been the case so far. It was then decided in 1999, that is, this year, a novel, by which a semi-open dual toll system for trucks was fixed, with the cars excluded from this regulation, and the date – unfortunately, from my point of view, I say this very openly – was removed from the law, so that it should now be carried out "as quickly as possible". Now we have the problem that the Toll Regulations, which would now be necessary to give ASFINAG the opportunity to introduce road pricing for trucks within 30 months – as long as it is necessary from the date of signature by the Minister of Economic Affairs – has not yet been signed. The introduction of road pricing for trucks would, of course, completely eliminate the road use tax law in the final effect, because it would no longer be necessary, because then there would be another management of the high-level road network. This would also result in an estimated 3,2 billion schilling of revenue from this title and the ASFINAG could then use these funds accordingly. We have now discussed this very seriously in the Committee on Finance and in fact also passionately. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I have contacted colleagues in the Federal Republic of Germany, and in fact it is the intention here to bring road pricing for trucks up to 2002. Whether this will actually succeed, I dare to doubt one more time, because if I think about our career, then he took a very long time. This could also be the case in Germany, which I do not accept, because many preparatory work has already been done in the meantime, so that it could go faster. Perhaps the date 2002 could hold. In my opinion, however, there is nothing to prevent us from, nevertheless, and regardless of the same technology – there is only a reasonable technology in Europe that is currently applicable; the GPS system and computer systems, and everything there is still high-tech, is not really so applicable ten years ago that road pricing is realistically feasible in all the topographic circumstances, such as in countries with many mountains, or when trucks are very close to each other, is realistically implemented by asking the Secretary of State today to intervene again on Mr Farnleitner to sign this toll regulation. If these are signed, then, tell me the managers of the ASFINAG, they can put road pricing on their feet for trucks within 30 months. Then, a number of arguments, as you have now pointed out here – not all but a number of arguments – are certainly gone, and we have, above all, added a solution to this miserable issue of financing within the ASFINAG: The loopholes could be financed by the construction of tunnels, which would be as important as we have seen, especially in the area of those tunnels which are currently only available once. So let us, together, try to stop the ASFINAG any longer and, as soon as possible, on the basis of the legislation we have set up, to eliminate this last obstacle, and to achieve the signing of this toll regulation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The obstacle is the ÖVP, you know that!]] Yeah, and that's why my appeal goes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then appeal more strongly! That's fad!]] I'm not politically married to anyone here. That is why my appeal is to do so in order to come to an overall sensible solution here quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12817	Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12838	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on this amendment of the Road Use Tax Act, I agree with my previous speaker that this will make an important step towards differentiation of tariffs according to environmental criteria in order to also create appropriate incentives for the transport industry to switch to less pollutant trucks. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: In paper form!]] However, we should not overlook, Mrs Colleague, that in the case of an EU-wide comparison, the truck tax burden in Austria is in the upper third. So you have to stay here on the ground of reality, because the whole thing has to be economically compatible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The interplanetary equinox!]] This is also about thousands of jobs in the transport sector, and we have a truck tax here in Austria, which is located in the upper third of all EU countries, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's why you need a completely different system! I don't want to pay that only their own people!]] This cannot be discussed away with so many calls. It also applies to you who are new here in this House that apparently, if the arguments are missing, the volume increases. But that can't be it, Mrs Colleague! You will still learn here that volume does not replace missing arguments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the following must also be said with all clarity: We also have a wormhead drop. The EURO-III type, starting from 1. New registrations are required for October 2001, but a special tariff has not yet been taken into account, although such types are already being delivered today and it would have been an incentive for many carriers to switch to the EURO III type. In the end, I would like to say that very clearly, we have said, on account of the overall responsibility for the budget: Okay, we accept this because the financial sector has predicted that a special tariff for the EURO III type would have meant a budget failure of about 80 to 100 billion schilling. [[Abg. Böhacker: billions?]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: millions!]] We, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are acting so responsibly, because we also bear overall responsibility for the budget! Now a word within the meaning of the discussion in the Financial Committee on the famous question of road pricing. I have already said in the Financial Committee that this is not about the principle. The principle is completely undisputed. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It's about principle!]] I am concerned, Mrs Colleague, that we do not say in a few years that we have made a stopover. We do not want to invest billions in a system that is perhaps already obsolete when it works. It can happen to us very easily at the rapid pace of technical progress that, despite great resistance, we create corresponding facilities throughout the regions and a few years later Germany installed a fully electronic system. Then you will not be accused of the stroke of the turtle, but against us who bear our responsibility, this accusation will be addressed. I really don't want to put off this accusation. Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions for the self-recognition of the road pricing principle are for us: firstly, the coordination with Austria's most important trading partner, namely Germany, and second economically compatible tariffs. I'm saying that quite openly. Austria is a single economic area, so it must not be hindered by East-West transport. The Vorarlberger, if transported to Vienna, or vice versa of the Burgenländer, which transports to Vorarlberg, may not be discriminated against in such a way that the single economic area falls apart. These are the two conditions under which we confess to road pricing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12951	Mr Böhacker spoke next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12972	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Today we have discussed more than four hours of economy and savings, and I would like to make a criticism at the beginning of my speech on the procedure of the Financial Committee: There was a single item on the agenda, namely the amendment to the Road Use Tax Act, an EU adjustment. The delegates from all the federal states had to arrive – this is not exactly cheap for the taxpayer – although on 2 July, they had to arrive. A meeting of the Committee on Budgets was held on 1 December after which it would have been possible to hold a meeting of the Financial Committee. Staff resources would have been available to officials from the ministry. So it would have been easy to hold these two committees in one day. This is where the House should move ahead with the appropriate good example and show sparingness, cost-effectiveness and expediency. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it was said to this novel: There is a fiscal policy side and a transport policy-ecological side. The transport policy side will light up my colleague Firlinger. I just want to cut short the fiscal policy side. There is an estimate that this novelle will cause about 100 million schilling costs. That's a very gross estimate, we were told. It can be more, but it can also be less. What bothers me about this whole situation is that this novelle with 1. July 2000, i.e. in the middle of next year, will enter into force and will result in two half-yearly declarations, which will result in an additional administrative burden on businesses. Mr State Secretary said in committee that it was a matter coming from the EU, and we could not do anything about it. I repeat what I have already said in the Financial Committee: It is not all good that comes from the EU, and not even if Commissioner Fischler says something from abroad towards Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: What did he say about the street use tax law, Mr. Deputies?]] Dr. Stumbling! In principle, the tax advantage of motor vehicles with up to three axes is mainly related to source and destination traffic. In this way, domestic fishers are also favoured. On the other hand, it is negative that the increase for multi-axle vehicles, which mainly make up the transit, is not correspondingly massive to cause a shift from road to rail. After time resources were available in the Financial Committee and there was an urgent problem, I made a request to extend the agenda with the request to treat a novel to the Income Tax Act in 1988, in such a way as to remove the restriction on the resolution of savings in interest rates. At present, there are still about 1.5 billion schilling of unused rental interest reserves, which, if pumped into the economy, would secure some 1,000 jobs in the renovation of houses. It is unfortunate that the two government parties were not prepared to take this request, whose demands are always made by the Chamber of Commerce, to also negotiate and discuss, let alone decide. I know that there is still the possibility to pay in 1999 in order to be able to carry out the work in 2000. However, this would have the disadvantage of having to be paid today, but perhaps only a year later this service would be provided, which would result in a huge liquidity and interest burden on the customers. It would therefore really be necessary to abolish this absurd period of time, especially since the time limit has already been extended. There is an urgent need for action, and I can assure you, Secretary of State, that we will continue to make this request. Finally, an interesting conclusion – a pity that the Minister of Finance is no longer here – is: In reply to the urgent question, the Minister of Finance informed us today that he will use any tax increases to ensure that there will not be an increase in the tax and tax rate. But now the "Kurier" of tomorrow reads the following: "On the margins of the plenary session, Edlinger criticised the demands made by the ÖVP for the government negotiations. That's where it says: ‘Do not increase the tax and tax rate.’ Edellinger: This is too little in terms of location and competition policy. Not to increase will not be enough." - Listen, listen! – "The SP Minister is committed to reducing the tax and tax rate from currently 43 percent to about 40 percent." Mr State Secretary! That's 75 to 80 billion schilling in tax failures. I would remind you that, when we made the call, we would have reduced the tax and tax rate to 40 percent in the medium and long term. – Now the Minister of Finance is demanding! What does he really want: not raise or lower? I really don't know myself anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13016	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13037	Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am of the opinion, Mrs Lichtenberger, that, despite all the unmistakable calls, you simply have to admit that this novelle is a correct step in the right direction, even if it does not go far enough. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: One step, yes!]] I understand. But it is clear that heavy traffic – that is, trucks with more than four axles as well as old, exhaust-rich trucks – is more heavily burdened than local and extra traffic with smaller trucks. The new, low-emission trucks are less taxed than old and loud "sinkers". This is a right principle that has been tried to implement in this EU directive.- Oh, my God! It is also not that it is cheaper for us than elsewhere in Europe. We fully use the EU directive. That means: The maximum amount is required. That must also be said! Higher amounts are not possible because they would not be EU-conform. You have to take note of that! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because you chose this model!]] Everything else needs to be regulated within the European Union. The Minister of Transport is responsible for the Transport Council. The cost truth – I do give you the right – is not fully respected by this new novel, but it goes in the right direction and not in the wrong direction as you wanted to express it here. I would like to express my support and confirm what my colleague said earlier: We confess to road pricing. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Well, really?- Oh, my God!]] We also maintain the relevant National Council decision, and we also believe that, for both financial and transport reasons, road pricing will ultimately not go by, but we cannot act as if transport policy were a purely national matter that we ourselves can handle in all areas. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I am amazed, colleague!]] What we don't want is pure island solutions only for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... My God!]] They are problematic, and that is why we have always expressed our view that the European Union and Germany are largely in line. It seems that Germany will be introducing road pricing by the middle of 2000. I remember what Mr Klimmt from Germany said – I have a broadcast from him here, dated 4. December – to that end. He says that he has confirmed his plan to introduce a non-respective fee for trucks on German motorways from 2002. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A charge dependent on removal!]] Yes, of course! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You said "non-reliance"!]] Excuse me! Of course: distance dependent motorway usage fee. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That was just a promise!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Oye! A Freud’s promise! That's where the unconscious hit!]] That is to say, we are in the right position with our timetable and also with the procedure, and there is not the slightest reason and there is not the slightest right to give Mr Farnleitner the black Peter for alleged delays. That is not justified! That would be and is a exclusively party-politically motivated attempt, but an improper attempt, and we would like to reject it clearly, whether it comes from the Greens or from the Socialist Group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be quite negligent if Minister Farnleitner adopted the Toll Regulations before reaching an agreement on the various locations with the federal states in which there are objections. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Farnleitner-lässig!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But that's where he's been for a long time!]] Without agreement, those federal states which are still concerned about it would continue to prevent and delay the establishment of the toll stations in the administrative procedure. They would call on the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court to initiate an endless legal dispute. How this works – you should know – we see that in Lower Austria at the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Who has the majority there?]] If the Minister of Transport had previously agreed with the country, perhaps we would have another situation today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is absolutely right for the Federal Minister Farnleitner to require ASFINAG to reach an agreement with the countries first and finally. We're on our way: The ASFINAG has already made appropriate compromise proposals which are better suited to regional economic transport. I also have consultation information that documents this accordingly. We also know why some countries object to the semi-open system. As a result, in particular on the short routes, injustices arise from a toll rate up to seven times. That's unacceptable. That is why they rightly demand a certain similarity with Germany, and there must be a degree of uniformity throughout Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: In the event of the same sound, it will not be cheaper on short distances either!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will therefore – I am convinced – also come quickly to define the new locations with those countries with which an agreement is still open, especially with Vorarlberg and Salzburg. I am convinced that at the end of January, i.e. at the beginning of next year, Mr. Farnleitner will sign the corresponding Toll Regulations. This means that we will have to expect a maximum of half a year's delay and that the introduction of the truck toll will be parallel and identical with the introduction in Germany. This half-year delay will allow the ASFINAG to operate without the need for additional state loans. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: A few billion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! So you can see: At present, artificial excitement is neither necessary nor justified!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13267	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13289	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! The Federal Law on the Change of the Road Traffic Tax is for us the Freeman is a small punctual improvement – that and not anymore! We see in it a small improvement towards more cost-effectiveness, and that is why we will give our approval to this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, there are three classes of trucks within the EU. Two of these have been included in the classification. Of course, Mrs Lichtenberger, one can always argue about this: Are the two classes sufficient? Shouldn't you have taken a third class? I would have thought that was useful. Of course, one can say that the big "sinkers", that is, the really emission-loaded trucks, could have been even more asked to the cash register. Only: Then the Austrian Federal Government should have negotiated better. But that was obviously not done. You're right. That's where the Federal Minister really didn't do a shine. You just took note of that. In fact, I would rather if we had a greater differentiation. But I believe that this was not the last debate on road transport, and I am firmly convinced that there must be further steps. Much more important than the question of what is going to happen to road transport now in concrete and immediate use, is the question of how to really transfer the annoying heavy traffic to the railway – that is not supposed to be a lip recognition. In my opinion, two conditions are necessary for this. Ladies and gentlemen! The first condition – and this should not be mentioned – is a correspondingly attractive offer in freight transport by the ÖBB, so that a fast transport over long distances can really be transferred to the rail. It is important to ensure efficient logistics, a rapid handling of goods and these things more. Of course, a price attractive offer from the ÖBB is necessary, which can best be ensured by the rapid introduction of liberalisation in freight transport on the rails. Second condition – I agree with the Greens – is the amendment of the Road Costs Directive. This is an old concern of the liberals. I believe that the last word has not yet been spoken. Finally, let me refer to the subject of road pricing. You know the position of us liberals. We are very happy to have formulated this negatively and said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No to road pricing, of course, always means: No, if not certain conditions are fulfilled. I can also express it positively and say: Yes to road pricing when certain conditions are met. And that's what I'm doing here. But I would not be satisfied with two conditions, as the honourable Member has boldly formulated, but I see five basic areas of problem, five basic things as conditions that need to be discussed seriously in order to include them actively in the decision. First: A road pricing on its own – that is the first point – without there being a similar regulation in Germany, with our main trading partner with 45 percent transport and economic interrelation, is not to be imagined for us. Secondly, A road pricing, which, as required by the SPÖ, implies a quick system decision and in which you have to break your mind about how to get away from the wrong system decision, is not acceptable to us either. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eder and Mr Parnigoni.]] No, but there are modern systems, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, and one has to focus on what is state-of-the-art technology here, and cannot choose a completely outdated system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: But you have to start once!]] Third point: A road pricing, in which there is not at the same time a massive relief of existing charges, is not possible for the FPÖ. It is always pretended as if traffic didn't pay. Austrian road transport brings 115 billion schilling annually as a contribution. For the road, as you know, 30 billion schilling are provided. There is a huge hole here, and therefore there must be no inconceivable hip shots in this direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Unfortunately, this bill is not true!]] Fourth point: Road pricing, which is valid only on motorways, will not be feasible. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why?]] Because how do you want to get in control of the evasion traffic? I know that the EU's rules on this matter do not provide for that. But this is a point that needs to be renegotiated. Fifth point: No road pricing for cars! This is a very central... [[Abg. Eder: We have already decided! Have you voted!]] Yes, you decided, ladies and gentlemen. Surely you decided, but there's always a back door opened: One builds an uneconomic system so that it becomes economic if one also asks the car drivers to cash out. We know this old bitch. Please don't mind me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: You don't believe that yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! So I mean, it's up to you to clear up stumbling stones. If you want to, you will have us on this question to the partner. If you don't want to, please do it alone!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13403	Mr Dr. Drinkl spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13425	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lichtenberger complained here that the source of revenue was not fully exploited. Mr Kukacka has already told her, I tell her for the second time: The directive has been fully exploited as far as road use is concerned. I admit, however, that the cost of road use is only one aspect of the whole road transport problem. The EU Road Costs Directive also provides for maximum rates for car taxation and toll assessment. Only: If we want to take all aspects into account, we also need to talk about all aspects, and here I would also like to appeal to Mr Eder, there are some calculations in this regard. According to the ASFINAG's draft, if the car tax is charged and the road use tax is removed, you yourself have said that very little would remain for ASFINAG, because if you want to introduce this expensive system that ASFINAG is currently proposing, you will have to deduct from toll revenue up to a billion schilling of operator costs. This is the problem that we are openly discussing here. And that is why we are committed to allowing road pricing to mature slowly and carefully, in the same way as our most important export partner Germany, to which we have the longest border in our country. [[Abg. Eder: That's what we said!]] Yes, but you say that you want to introduce the semi-open system through the Toll Regulations, and we do not think that would be a mistake at the right time. I'll tell you why. [[Abg. Eder: Does this mean that the Minister of Economic Affairs does not implement the law?]] - No! – Because more than 80 percent of the total truck traffic is in Austrian transport. More than 80 percent of all tolls would therefore be for inland Austrian trucks. [[Abg. Eder: They don't all drive on the highway! They're going on the federal road!]] Therefore, when road pricing is introduced unilaterally, the competitiveness of the Austrian economy would be massively at risk, and we are against it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want the impact on the Austrian economy to be as low as possible. Therefore, we are in favour of a timely and technical coordination with our neighbours Germany, and therefore we are committed to carefully monitoring the technology, the development in the technical sector and, if necessary, to saving ourselves operating and construction costs that would fall on our minds in a few years. [[Abg. Eder: You can tell this argument every year!]] But as a Styrian Member, allow me to deal with other inequalities. We as the Steirer and I, as a representative of the federal states, would not accept that the kilometre tolls are different depending on where you move. It simply cannot be that a truck ride from Graz to Germany costs a multiple toll of what a truck ride from Vienna to Germany costs. Here I really ask you to be very careful. This situation is unacceptable to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: They've been paying for years at the Brenner!]] Nor will we accept that the interests of the federal states are not taken into account. We therefore underline the action taken by the Minister of Economic Affairs, who called for agreement to be reached with the federal states. Of course, the agreement with them must be reached! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Herzegovina, this also applies to the definition of toll points. I will never accept that you will build a toll point in Lässnitzthal, just because you can achieve the greatest possible yield there. Imagine: Behind Lässnitzthal lies Chrysler-Puch – we in the Styria are proud to be considered the Autoland number one in Austria – and in front of this toll point are the entire subcontractors. It occurs that one and the same truck travels from the production site to the holding 16 times a day. – Would you accept this if you were busy in this company? We, as East Styria, will not accept that our East Styrian economic area is being disadvantaged in this way. Another example: The ASFINAG is planning a toll at wound shoe. This point lies between the railway terminal and the city of Graz. Does that make environmental sense, Mrs Lichtenberger? Does that make sense if I prevent the railway from being used for the transports and made a detour again? That's pointless. It is therefore necessary to consider this tolling regulation again, particularly as regards the exact location of the tolling stations. Nor do we accept – and I would like to say that clearly – that the discussion on the Tolls Regulation is being taken as a pretext in order to suddenly stop loopholes in order to take the federal states to the kandare. That we agree you will not experience from us! [[Abg. Eder: But you must pay for it! Be against it everywhere and don't agree, that's not possible! Anyone's got to pay!]] We will not accept this. However, like my previous speakers, I would like to stress the following: We are committed to developing a meaningful road pricing system, which we can say in several years: Yes, we have done the right thing in line with the European neighbours.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13549	Mrs Schottel-Delacher has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13570	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I wonder how long the Austrian drivers are still preoccupied that there is no money for urgently needed road projects. That's not true! We all now know that the road transport sector actually has a surplus of over 80 billion schilling. The fact that the ASFINAG is being excluded cannot also be deceiving. The ASFINAG, now divided into financial commuting, now intends to fill its financial "beatholes" with a new toll system and makes overdue road construction projects dependent on the introduction of truck-road pricing – an eye-catching and clear excuse, as I mean. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because the lion's share of transport-related revenue, which totals over 110 billion schilling, disappears into non-traffic budget holes. Even though the planned truck-road pricing with a total investment volume of at least over 4 billion schilling is not to be introduced in the European equivalent or at least in the same manner as Germany and not to the latest technical level, in a few years we will be forced to adapt to a European overall system and to re-establish investments for adaptation. [[Abg. Eder: There are already in Italy, France and Spain!]] Yeah, they've been adapting all the time, for years and time and again. More recently, billions will need to be invested in refitting. And from where do you get the necessary revenue? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At car-road pricing maybe? Is that the next step? Please do not forget that the traffic is the engine of the nation and not the milk cow! The proposed road pricing system is another road-pricing measure that will lead to new competitive disadvantages for our domestic economy – and not least to a disadvantage to the consumer. And all of this in the dreaming assumption that it can force road traffic on the rails with all the force – sensible or not, realistic or not. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot see at the best of will in this approach a suitable overall transport concept. Instead of developing a partner model of road and rail according to state-of-the-art logistical findings, these two modes of transport are consistently played out against each other with questionable and expensive advertising campaigns. Our opinion is: Only a fair partnership and fair treatment of road and rail, accompanied by a lack of competence and the creation of a single Ministry of Infrastructure, are guarantees of a meaningful, future-looking overall transport concept.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13623	Mr Wattaul has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13644	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Who is responsible for transport? Who's causing traffic? It is not the transport operator, not the truck, but the manufacturing economy that causes traffic. We cannot be proud on the one hand and say: Great, we have 3 to 5 percent production increase again! And forget that all of this has to be transported as well. And if you think you can put all this on the rail, I have to tell you that will not be possible. 80 percent of the traffic in Austria is target and source traffic, only 20 percent are transit. You can't believe it works if the transporters have to drive from the South Railway Station to the Westbahnhof in Vienna in the evening and then load the trucks onto the train. How does that work? You already have a mess at the stations, I don't want to talk about time. It's not possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also completely wrong to favor some transport system. Both have room. In my opinion, the railway has its right as well as the truck and ship transport on the Danube. You just have to transport the right one on the right transport instrument. Time-independent goods, bulk goods can easily be transported by rail. A truck runs on the Vienna–Hamburg line on average 40 to 50 km/h for all compliance with the requirements. The railway runs an average of 5 to 8 km/h. This is not comparable, it is not possible. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Why is the garbage going from Germany to Italy?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague! There are a little unwritten laws with us! We are not in the Tiroler Landtag!]] [[Call to the liberals: This is a young man's speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I don't want to disturb virgins!]] When you introduce the road pricing on your own – what can you do with it? Only a deterioration in the location Austria. You can't introduce a road pricing alone, so maybe make an island solution, because with it you can only reach one: They only disadvantage the Austrian transport industry and the economy as a whole. We have already heard what will happen when goods are transported from Vienna to Vorarlberg or from Burgenland to Vorarlberg. It is quite clear that the Swiss or German transport operator then transports to Vorarlberg far cheaper. The Austrians will then have no more chance. I can't, it doesn't work. Now I come to the debate on StraBA. You said: 80 p. – Yes, per tonne payload 80 p! So much has the StraBA so far. Per tonne of payload 80 S! And now it is increased to 110 s per tonne of payload. It's not like you say. You have to look at that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The EURO-II engines are certainly the right instrument, and I also know that from January on, all well-known producers will only produce more EURO-III engines. You have told us here that the trucks will not meet these environmental criteria in a few years. You cannot say that, because the EURO-I engine was only introduced two years ago. There's no way you know now that the trucks won't have these engines in three years. And then that is no longer the case, because then we already have the EURO-II and the EURO-III engines. You probably forgot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Overall, I believe that in Austria one should once find a comprehensive concept, a common concept for rail and road, not against each other, but with each other, for otherwise we will never come to a solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13737	Mrs Moser spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13758	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Around 30 S is debated here today, and these 30 S are in your eyes a big step, a good principle, a touch on the right direction. I'll tell you: This is more or less a step at the stand. We have long had the opportunity – my previous speaker, Mr Eder, has pointed out that there are Parliament's decisions from 1996, from 1998, from 1999 – to really take a proper step here, really going towards cost-truth on the road, really to establish the market economy in the transport sector. What really needs to be discussed here today is the massive subsidy, the massive support from public funds, through budget funds, through funds that are tearing us somewhere else in the budget. And these funds flow into road construction, flowing into the repair of the roads, which is especially necessary because 20 ton, 30 ton, 40 ton use the road coverings significantly more than you ever bring in by mineral oil tax or other taxes, car tax or whatever. Because you are sitting here, Mr State Secretary, I would like to tell you that you are from management, from the economy: Let us finally introduce economic criteria in the field of road transport! If we charge costs against each other, then we are on a new path, and then we are on the way that the EU has long wanted to take. The White Paper on "Efficient Prices and Cost Truth" has already been quoted. This is the way to the future – and not your 30 steperl! And if I follow the debate on road pricing here, I believe, for the fourth or fifth time, I must say that it is only more exciting in one respect, Mr Kukacka, Mr Drunkel, in a very interesting way: Mr Kukacka throws more or less the coat of reconciliation over the discrepancy between Minister Farnleitner and the individual federal states, for example also the ÖVP-regulated Salzburg or Carinthia. On the other hand, Mr Drinkl clearly says: No, Farnleitner must not sign the Toll Regulations because it is a combination of injustices. That is where I give Mr Drinkl the right: This toll station regulation is bad. This tolling regulation is also unfair, and this tolling-place regulation is one of the most important: She's expensive. You know for yourself, this system costs 4.5 billion schilling, 1 billion schilling the annual operating costs. And what's coming in? - Maybe 2 billion schilling. This amount comes in because, first, the truck is not led to the cost-truth over this semi-open toll system and second, the passenger car is passing by more or less close to it. I'm clear. In some respects, I agree with Mr Farnleitner that I also agree with various people from the EU who say that a more or less modern system has to come. And I say that this system will also come, but it is currently located in Switzerland. It would have to be possible to make such arrangements at EU level so as to ensure that each run kilometer counts, regardless of whether on the federal road, whether on the motorway or another transport route; I now call Linz as an example, for example, the route between Wegscheid and Oed. That would have to be calculated. This would have to be brought to this level in the EU, which would certainly be in the sense of an economic policy which has European dimensions and which, above all, is very clearly calculated. Above all today, I mention this because, at the beginning of the sitting, budgetary policy was at the beginning of the current hour, and because in the afternoon it was again at 3 p.m. budget holes, budget failures, wrong calculations and horror scenarios. And, please, against the background of such a budget discussion, you'll fall by 30 s, although you know that when you introduce the cost truth, in principle the money is on the street in the truest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13806	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 3 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 17/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Herbert Scheibner, Georg Schwarzenberger, Dr Alexander Van der Bellen and Comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Public Officials; and on the application 1/A by Mr Herbert Scheibner and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Contributions of Official Officials (11 of Supplements) 7. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the voluntary pension fund provision for persons subject to the Federal Pension Act (PKVG) (12 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13892	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13919	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Reference Act is a four-party application, which has been unanimously adopted by the Constitutional Committee. I therefore believe that once again we could discuss the question of reference without any special excitement. What is it about? – It is about the annual adjustment of In relation to political actors – for a modest annual adjustment – and I believe that the well-being or woe of the Republic of Austria will not necessarily depend on it now. This new regulation of adaptation in § 3 is a common way, but I think it has a significant beauty flaw. On the one hand, it was a good thing to get politicians out of the official's schedule, and on the other hand it is difficult to link them to pensions and pensions as far as the increases are concerned. It is true that pension increases are linked to pension increases. What does that mean for the image? What does that mean for the self-understanding of political officials, young officials? Is it acceptable to the image? Or, ladies and gentlemen, will this not rather cause headaches for young people who are new to politics? – These are not about the amount of compensation, nor about the amount of adjustment, but about principles. And the principle of how this adjustment is justified is problematic. To be classified as a pensioner as a maximum will be difficult to explain as a principle. As much as the older generation is engaged in society and indispensable in associations and institutions – I don't want to get close to anyone and insult anyone – but the performance we expect from a 25-year-old or 30-year-old politician or a politician is quite another in society. Mrs Petrovic argued in the Constitutional Committee that it was also difficult to link up with inflation rates. This is basically correct, because it is logical that a high inflation rate of politicians would survive the situation so to speak, but the rest of the population would have to look where it remains. This is theoretically correct, but at the same time it is up to the colleague Petrovic to discuss and redefine policy issues each year. In principle, I do not think much of that, because I think it is not particularly intelligent to debate political relations every year, because one actually gives the impression that politicians are first-class about their own gage. But I think we can certainly agree on the formula, Mrs Petrovic, that, if an undesirable and unreasonable situation occurs, we must react to an undesirable and unreasonable situation, after the President of the Court of Auditors has calculated us an increase of 3.3 percent. I hope that the FPÖ today will not be forced to do so in the debate and try to celebrate or moralise a triumph here, as Mr Haupt is so pleased to do. However, given this list of speakers, there is already a certain danger. What has the FPÖ actually done in the time when the other four parties have tried to resolve political relations? What happened to the FPÖ club? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Let's take a look at the clubman and the clubcassier of the last two years! Klubobmann Stadler, for example, has polemized at this pult about political pensions and – you have all spoken in the ear – red and black downfallers who fill up the bags – only to take out a little bit harmless. However, he immediately approached himself greedyly and allowed the possibility of relinquishing a political board to pass. Dr. Haider never criticized that. That is, I believe, also an interesting circumstance. But let's look from the clubman to the clubcassier, next to the waiter is the cashier in a club, in a club also important. Ladies and gentlemen! 20 Process days will probably not be enough to get behind the where and where the references are and behind what all the club-cassier Rosenstingl "drangs". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about Mayor Hufnagl?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, please hold back! They drink wine in full swings and preach water. A certain self-criticism would be appropriate today if one looked at the pensioners Stadler and the Kassier Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have a mayor in Windish barley that is condemned!]] I come to your honorary colleague, Mr Westenthaler, to speak to your honorary friend Alexander Götz. He has a very, very high political pension; but not enough, he has accused the taxpayers of the Republic of Austria of a little bit of his political pension, namely for a supplement which he himself had granted in his political function in Graz at the time. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Fischl: How is Stingl and Blecha?]] I really ask you: Don't give up the ridiculousness today by playing here as a Morala Apostle! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13991	Mr Schwarzenberger spoke. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please. [[19:49]] Member of Parliament Georg Schwarzenberger (ÖVP): Mr President. High house! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In May 1997, the refer ence reform was decided here in the House. At the time, the aim was to find a reference pyramid from the Federal President to the municipal councils. Since the accusation that the politicians themselves decided to increase their involvement, one was looking for a model of how to regulate political relations in relation to the average income of the population. At that time, a model was found on the basis of a proposal from experts, so to speak, using the average income of the previous year as a basis. However, it has been overlooked that if the inflation rate is down, the income increase will, of course, result from a higher inflation rate, but only three years later, so that the President of the Court of Auditors has calculated an increase of 3.3 percent on the basis of this automatic approach for the year 2000. In view of the fact that some 2 million pensioners receive a pension increase of more than 0.6 percent or those with small pensions, and we have talked a lot about savings on this day, we have, as it were, been able to follow this feeling and have changed § 3 of the Reference Act to mean that in future the inflation rate of the previous year or the amount of the pension adjustment is the basis, but the lower value in each case. In fact, it has been argued that a high inflation rate – which is currently not in view for the next few years – could lead to a lower pension adjustment than the inflation rate. For this reason, in a four-party application, we have agreed to the lower value in each case: If the pension increase is lower than the inflation rate, the increase in political remuneration will also be lower than the inflation rate, namely to the extent of the pension increase. We made a further clarification in § 6 concerning the benefits: For surviving spouses, 60 percent are used, 36 percent are married and 24 percent are married. I believe that this regulation shows that we too are prepared to bring victims to victims in the interests of a economical budget, a economical budget, even though we are not necessarily comparable to pensioners on and on the other hand: We already do active work. But I think we've found a way that we can stand in the next few years. I must speak to the honourable Member. Herbs improve a little: The result was not entirely unanimous in the Committee, because Mrs Petrovic did not agree with it. She wanted an annual discussion and an annual free decision by Parliament on the level of political relations. – We would have been back where we were actually in front of the reference pyramid when we got the accusation from the population that the politicians as the only professional group would decide to increase their own involvement. I mean, we can agree to this reference law on the part of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14038	Mr Scheibner has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14059	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was already somewhat surprised by the debate by Mr Kräub, which is in many respects, because we have, in principle, agreed on a regulation in very good negotiations. It may already be that it is too little for some to know how this increase is going to fail or will fail in the future, but it is a viable compromise that can be explained and will certainly also lead to the fact that we do not have to hold such a debate every year. However, on such an occasion, Mr Herb, I do not want to get into the deep drawer of political rhetoric, as you have done here. Where are we going? What a nonsense. You made it here, my colleague, herbs! Mr Stadler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Stadler. I say to you, Mr Stadler is right, as is our group, to vote against and vote against a system of this kind, Mr Herzegovina. And it would have been a mistake if you had done the same because we would not have to do these repairs today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are worried about Mr Stadler, I can calm you down, because with his change to the Lower Austrian government, he has lost his pension claim, which he had only acquired here in a year, because he has not been in the house for ten years, colleague Herbs. And here I ask you in this context – you said he was greedy to access it greedily! –: Mr Herzegovina! How many of your group have been greedy to speak with your words when it came to making use of the right of vote and voting against the political board? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How many of your group have become greedy? – jobs You don't come here and talk arroganceful nonsense! Take care of your own group! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Come on. You're not with Rosenstingl! You know very well that our Parliamentary Club, as well as yours, has been examined by the Court of Auditors and has not only been shown to be a malaise – I tell you one thing, which is probably unique in the control of the Court of Auditors – but has even come to the advice not to save quite that restrictively in some areas. Mr Herzegovina! You would have to do enough in your own ranks when it comes to eliminating abuses – from Carinthia to Upper Austria to Vienna. You've got enough to come back. So don't go to the speaker's desk here, but wash your dirty clothes in your own ranks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You then go down here and say – as your mind reveals, Mr. Herb; I was unscrupulous, I believed, I do not hear correctly –: Well, it is already difficult to link the increases in political relations to the pension adjustment now. – What is there a problem? . You have said that it is not acceptable to the image that it cannot be explained to a young Member that he now has to be treated like a pensioner when he increases his salary. – Yes, say: Where do you even live? [[Abg. Fischl: In the Obersteiermark!]] For example, are you ashamed that we must ensure that politicians do not get more pay increases than that generation that has built this country that has worked for 40, 50 years to ensure that you and I can live here in peace and prosperity? [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is why you are ashamed of the fact that, through this regulation, there is now a link between the fact that we are clearly setting a signal here to see the rate of inflation as a cover, but at least to say that we are not getting more than the pensioners? You're ashamed of that? Do you feel that this is a bad signal that is not compatible with the image? – I tell you quite honestly: You didn't learn anything! You haven't learned anything from all the debates of recent times! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was your colleagues who said in committee that the liberals were responsible for the fact that the image of politicians is so bad because we have always shown the privileges of politicians, and that is why we have to fight about such requests. – It was not the expression of such problems by the liberals and it is that it is not acceptable to the image of politicians, but it was the situation, Mr. Herb, that there were double and triple references that there were no rules of rest, that as politicians the sugars were taken out of all systems: the pension scheme and the salary adjustment of the officials, but the settlement of the ASVG, Mr. Herb. And these are such attitudes as You have now shown it here from this speaker's point of view, which is detrimental to the image of politics and politicians. As a younger Member of Parliament, you should just write this over your ears and into your master book! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps you can explain it to your members and voters – perhaps you want to lose even more of the votes; we can't explain it to anyone – that at a time when we have discussed giving pensioners 40 S or 60 S more to pension, we discuss whether we should get 3 300 S more per month. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Mr Herzegovina! When we talk about privileges: Explain to us what your Federal Chancellor climate has done with the 1 million schillings he has received a year more through your agreement! [[Call to the liberals: To whom did he donate this?]] It's said he's donating them to any organizations. So far, we haven't heard anything. So if you go down here, swing great speeches and yell at the liberals, then explain this story to us: Where is the million of the German Chancellor's climate?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the Freeman:... Burgenland farm!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: put in!]] We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no such thing as a debate. On the question of the policy-making arrangements, one should not fall into a mutual hack and into poverty debates, rather, and one can make it clear to the public that we want to implement an explanatory and also transparent system in the area of political remuneration. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Herbs is a "good" election helper!]] Today's regulation – and I really call it a positive example – goes in this direction. So you should not fall into old plateaus, but at last take note that we have made a positive contribution to the hope that the image of politicians will be better in the future. You should at last make a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14198	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Van der Bellen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14227	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to go into the history anymore. All of this is already from the minutes of the 18th meeting. ==References== ==References== The first reading was November, and at the time it was negotiated why the old regulation was in need of reform and in this form was not to be maintained. I think that, for very pragmatic reasons, one can agree to this regulation, because, politely speaking, the budget situation of the federal government will be so bad – not only in 2000, but also in the years following – that it is nevertheless not acceptable to do something different from what is in this paper. However, I still have a small legal note – I do not know why this has not been changed in the Committee –: I hope that the President of the Court of Auditors will act wisely; in fact, I have no doubt that he will act wisely. Two figures are communicated to the President of the Court of Auditors: one by the Statistical Central Office and one by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. These two figures must be compared to the President of the Court of Auditors. I don't think he needs more than five minutes for that. However, he has two months to do so! In the event that the President of the Court of Auditors now sets this time limit for determining the adjustment factor, that is to say until 31. May every year, to use – what do you mean?, he has to compare two numbers and then make known in the Official Journal! – then the "poor" paying places are quite under pressure, that of the 1st. To implement it that same year, because all of this, that is, the change in these references, also needs an advance. I therefore rely on the President of the Court of Auditors to do so within a week, not to take advantage of this period and to ensure that the "poor" officials who have to do so actually have the necessary time to do so. By the way: The law has an expiry date! We will not be able to decouple ourselves permanently and permanently from the general income development. I already did that in the debate on 18 November. It was said in November. I'll deposit it here again. However, for the next legislative period, if it should last for four years, it is a pragmatic, good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14270	I now come to the floor, Mr Dr Michael Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14294	Mr President. High house! The wound must already be very deep with you, ladies and gentlemen of Austrian Social Democracy, if you sit here with stoned ants, inwardly opposed to this law, but at the same time, on the basis of the political opportunity to be attributed to you, nothing remains to you except to agree with it. This is actually the contradiction to your behaviour in relation to the pension scheme. Please allow me to look back at the debate at the sitting of 15. In May 1997, when this contract-limitation law was passed here in the House. There were still true praises! For example, your Clubobmann Kostelka said at the time – I quote –: "We have assumed a wide range of positions, but we have come to a common result, behind which we can stand with pride – also towards the Austrians." - Quote. So with pride, those four parties who decided to do so at the time can stand before the Austrians, according to Kostelka! Or another example: It was said by Mr Schwemmlein at the time – I quote – that: "We had the task of creating a reference system that met the criteria of transparency, perceptibility, simplicity and justice." - Quote. So there was talk of justice, and on the social democratic side, they beat themselves to the chest and said that there was a lot of justice in the question of political relations. Two years have since moved to the country. And how does it look now? . There is a report from the Constitutional Committee, which states that, taking into account the small increase in pensions - I quote literally - "it is not acceptable to implement the increase in pensions determined by the President of the Court of Auditors." - Quote. The APA reports from the Constitutional Committee that in view of the fact that pensions are raised by only 0.6 percent, all the politicians in the High House considered themselves to be totally inappropriate to approve a salary permit according to the old law to the extent of 3.3 percent. I really don't understand. Originally, it was said that one was proud of it. It was said in committee that it was totally inappropriate. And now, according to the words that have been heard so far, especially those of my colleague Herb, we are quite openly criticizing this regulation! Mr Herzegovina! I would like to see the transparency and justice that you would otherwise call for. Where is your political capacity if you are actually opposed to this scheme, which merely provides for an increase in the level of pension increase? Yes, please take this speaker's seat here or make it clear in your voting behaviour that you are against it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That would be honesty! You must answer this before the citizens or before your voters. But to make the law bad from this speaker's point of view, but at the same time to vote for it, just because of political opportunities, is – don't be evil for me! – an act of political cowardice and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have, of course, caught yourself by this law, by the fact that you have raised the contract limitation law into the constitutional rank, the two-thirds majority of red and black but have been lost by the elections in October, and They would no longer have come out of this self-carrying without the help of the opposition parties. Be honest: They would have to be grateful to us for taking a common approach, which is also reasonable, saying that 100 000 S is basically still in order. We don't want any less, we don't want any more. – And nothing else says it when value assurance is a parameter. That is something quite reasonable, because this means that we Members are assured of these 100 000 S – unless the pensions would even be raised under the guarantee of value! It is therefore a very fair solution. But to complain about this, to be sad, to show a glass chin and to say that you are not really in favour of just getting up for political reasons and agreeing with it is simply dishonest! This is not acceptable, Mr Herzegovina. It is seen that any ground liability, any connection to the base, has come to you. We also decide today that civil servants' pensions will be increased by 1.5 percent per month up to 7 000 S. Do you know how much that means? That's 140 s! That's what you decide here! On the other hand, however, you react painfully because you do not get 3.3 percent, but only 0.6 percent of salary increase.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14382	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14404	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have followed today's debate could see that Mr Kräber's contribution to the debate has continued seamlessly where Mr Posch and other Members have begun at the relevant meeting of the Constitutional Committee. What was referred to at the said Committee meeting as the "Covering of Austria" and was represented with other keywords, you, Mr. Herb – thankfully now not in the same terminology, but in the same spirit and with the same content – have continued to do. I wonder, Where did social democracy come from? . In view of today's debates on the current laws on the agenda, and the efforts to valorize different groups of people, it is not understandable for me that someone who deserves roughly 100 000 S and receives a 0,6 percent valorization instead of a 3.3 percent, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, to speak here and today with such a speech as you, Mr Herb. You have obviously forgotten that, with the adjustment factor of 0.6 percent, you have set up an increase in the pay for women by "satte" 34 S in the same way. You have forgotten that you have decided 135 S for people who have worked their lives and who at the time have paid at least on the border or near the maximum basis – up to 22 500 S. They have also decided today for the officials who are also clearly below what we politicians get. Ladies and gentlemen! If we take it seriously that the policy is responsible for the framework conditions in a state, I think we have no right at all, in view of these framework conditions for which we are responsible, namely for those of the budget of this Republic which is already out of control, which, if we look at the speeches of the Minister of Finance, but also those of the other parties from this area of government, has become almost unfinancingable, so that the third-richest state of Europe, the seventh-richest city of this world, cannot enforce a social increase for broad levels of population, with the increase for ourselves, i.e. for those caste that has adopted these framework conditions, is not satisfied, because we are going back in the salary in the appropriate form, but still significantly better – at least in real increases, not in percentage increases – than many of those groups of the population for which appropriate adjustments have been agreed today. Ladies and gentlemen, herbs! Many social democrats, who build up the Second Republic and the Social Democratic Party also over the 3rd. I believe, if you read your speech, that social democracy and its officials, at least in your person, Mr. Herbs, have clearly and clearly agreed on the objectives of their founding fathers, will have taken place in October 1999. This has rarely become as transparent in this Republic as it is today's debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we politicians want to take our responsibility for the framework conditions in this state seriously, we also need to note that, if we are to create framework conditions for the economy and for the people who are not suitable for a state with a gross domestic product, as we produce it, we need to put back in our very own area in order to be seen as positive. Everything else is not comprehensible to people outside this high house, nor is it represented by them. And anyone who believes that he can unpunishedly overcome the wishes and ideas of the people of our state will be caught up in the urn of the wrath of the voters, in my opinion with authority!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14458	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 11 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is largely accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 12 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this was accepted by the majority at the third reading. That is the point of the agenda. 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Peter Kostelkaund Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (18/A)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14543	Now we're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14574	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The minority rights in this Parliament are not so bad against the representations of some opposition speakers, in the international comparison, I would mean, even very well regulated. There is no other Parliament in which a political group with only five Members even has the right to request special meetings. With regard to audit orders to the Court of Auditors, we are also extremely liberal in international comparison, and there is hardly any parliament in which a political group could be set up with only 3% of the votes and mandates. This is significant, therefore, because virtually every group of Members who have enough votes to come to this House, i.e. the minimum requirement of 4 per cent after the electoral order, is at the same time granted the status of the political groups. A debate between the majority and the minority of this House has always been the right to set up investigation committees in recent years. In this respect, there are two different views in Europe: one regards it as an expression of the right of majority, the other being a minority law, about the same number of them. At the beginning of this legislative period, we Socialists, as a sign of a new beginning, including a new relationship between government and Parliament, have used us to take the step from majority to minority law. I think that this is a courageous step in the right direction – to more democracy and more control in our country! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision we will have to take together in the next few weeks is to make the Committee of Inquiry a normal part of the parliamentary procedure. We have had at least one committee of inquiry since 1970 almost every legislative period, but no more since 1990, and we want to try to overcome that in this way. However, we will not only have to liberate the Committee of Inquiry from the Odium of Scandals together, but we will also have the task of ensuring that witnesses are not treated like defendants and that there is also really everyone in the proceedings against fairness. The new procedural law will be an essential instrument for this. Ladies and gentlemen! We are expressing that a republic and democracy require both the majority of the government and opposition, and that control is an essential part of the further development of democracy. – We give proof of this view with this request. However, we are also committed to the discussion tasks that we still have to deal with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, namely that we have clearly agreed on or will agree that, as I believe, there is a right of a minority to set up an investigation committee, but that the decision-making decisions in the process are very likely to be majority decisions in accordance with the principles of democracy. But not only that: We will certainly also have to discuss the certainty that there is a limitation of the committee of inquiry within the meaning of the Constitution within the framework of constitutional contracts. Finally, we will also have to discuss the deadline, because I believe that examination committees, which last too long, tend not to contribute too much to the statement of the matter. There is probably very often an interest in starting the next investigative committee and not staying on the old subject for too long. – In this time limit, I do not see control hostility, but control efficiency. We will certainly also have to discuss whether it is useful to provide for an automatic change of the applicant groups, especially with a view to a time-limit. The debate ahead of us is to be and must be assessed in its power. Whenever discussions on the Rules of Procedure have begun in this House, there has been a tendency to question these discussions. Therefore, I would like to invite the opposition today to conduct this discussion with all persistence and speed, but also to be aware that the overall project, if new problems are also being loaded on these careers, is at least delayed in time. For example, our group has also introduced a discussion on the right of young people to make petitions to the Committee on Petitions or the like. It was also discussed, for example, whether petitions that could not be done should actually be brought to an end with the end of the legislative period. A discussion about some such detail problem may be still going on, but the treatment of major problems would, I would like to point out today, lead to the fact that the completion of the main task, namely the next month's discussion on the Committee of Inquiry, would only be delayed. I therefore believe that we should actually do this a task very quickly in the foreseeable future. Ladies and gentlemen! We are committed to the minority right of the opposition groups to set up an investigation committee. We believe that this is a useful addition to democracy in our country. We, as the government party of this, and with high probability also the next legislative period, and we also believe that as a social-democratic group, we have such a right, which should exist, to form. We could prevent such a right because of our strength. The opposite is the case, however, ladies and gentlemen: We Social Democrats are initiators and promoters of this initiative! I'll invite you to: Let us have a reform of the Rules of Procedure over the next few months!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14643	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Johann Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14667	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The rights of the opposition parties, so-called minority rights, are absolutely different in the constitutions of the European states or in the Rules of Procedure of the national parliaments. Austria has enshrined minority rights in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, in a way that can hardly be found otherwise in Europe. Our clubman Dr. Kostelka has already pointed this out. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is pure populism!]] Nevertheless, there are democratic deficits that should be eliminated from our point of view. The marking of the existing system is that the establishment of an investigation committee constitutes a majority right. However, social democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is of the opinion that examination committees should not be prevented by a majority as a special instrument of parliamentary control in the future. In the future, a certain number of Members will be able to make a corresponding request to set up a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the 1998 Rules of Procedure reform, the first step was taken in the Austrian Parliament to close a gap in parliamentary Rules of Procedure. The conditions for the establishment of a committee of inquiry have been redefined, but in particular a regulation of experience, which is laid down by the rule of law. It could have been thought, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian federal states will now also follow this example and in their national constitution laws or regulations of the Land Days provide for appropriate regulations. I consider it unacceptable that these proposals have not been followed at country level in seven federal states and that there are still huge legal deficits in the activities of investigation committees. In Salzburg and Styria, the establishment of a committee of inquiry is already a minority right. A quarter or a third of the Members may request an investigation committee, with procedural provisions ensuring fundamental rights and the rule of law. It is not that way, however, in other federal states. Investigation committees still clearly show the traits of an inquisition procedure that has long been overcome in the criminal proceedings, especially since in investigative committees the investigating authority is identical with the judge authority and there is no formal defendant with recognised defence rights, but only witnesses who are under the obligation of truth. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our appeal therefore applies to these seven federal states to provide for the necessary reforms in the constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the respective country day! Today's discussion will clarify that the Social Democratic Party is ready to correct this democratic deficit in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure. There are, of course, a number of questions to be dealt with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It is about the issue of the decisions on evidence. We believe that evidence decisions should still constitute a majority right so that the constitutional boundaries of parliamentary control law are not exceeded. The question will be how many committees of inquiry can demand clubs under future minority law in the legislative period. It will be about the number of committees of inquiry, and we believe that it is intended to prevent inflation of committee of inquiry. Our clubman Peter Kostelka has already pointed out that there are, of course, a number of other open Rules of Procedure which are to be discussed, but these should not delay the implementation of the minority right we are seeking in time. Let me conclude by saying: The process of parliamentaryisation – and Parliament has gained in importance! – and democratisation can never be considered to be completed and must therefore be seen under new political circumstances in the XXI. The Commission will continue its legislative period. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, let us give the committee of inquiry a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14708	Mrs Maria Theresia Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14729	Mr President. High house! Once in a while, I would like to make it clear that the EIA, of course, accepts control rights and also accepts that it belongs to parliamentarianism that there are minority rights. However, we are skeptical about the combination of control law and minority law in the Committees of Inquiry, and this is likely to be the only group – as is yet to be seen. In 1997 we created the Rules of Procedure on the Committees of Inquiry and then we argued in detail why we wish to reserve this instrument to the democratic majority in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Mr Kostelka! It is not quite right to speak of two schools would have been more correct if you had said that there is a clearly ruling teaching in Europe in this regard, which stands for the democratic majority. In 13 of 15 EU countries, this is an instrument of democratic majority. It is only in Germany that this is a minority right, and at that time in your speech on the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kostelka, you have put it quite in detail that the German example cannot be cited in this context in comparison because, for example, Germany does not know the Court of Auditors in our sense and therefore does not have a parliamentary control instrument, as we have, for example, the Court of Auditors. Mr Kostelka! Today your speech has been quite different. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What prevents me from being failed!]] Today you have made a 180-degree swivel! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The better is the enemy of good!]] I have looked at your request very carefully: It says that a third of the Members should be able to set up an investigation committee. – Just "at random" this is exactly the case with the SPÖ, but only "at random" is not the case with the ÖVP, not with the FPÖ and not with the greens. That's a bit strange anyway! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] That seems to me to be transparent. The Green Group has, in its proposal, fairly written at least that at least one whole group is required. With the request of the Greens, this instrument would open each party in this House, but with your only SPÖ, the other would not. However, I would also like to mention another provision which you have included in your request. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is likely that the majority of this House will be in favour of minority law, I would like to draw your attention to the following: The social-democratic proposal and the green request also provide that there can only be a committee of inquiry. For the Social Democrats, this committee can meet for 18 months, and during this time nothing else can be examined and controlled. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true!]] For example, your application states that not two committees of inquiry cannot be set up at the same time and that the Committee of Inquiry must be concluded within 18 months. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The National Council can decide what it wants!]] In my view, however, the rapid establishment of an investigation committee on any forest and meadow topic would be an excellent way for issues such as "Euroteam" or "AMS" to be left for 18 months and no one can examine them any more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Red Group's Committee of Inquiry seems to me to be rather a control prevention instrument and not really something to be used for real control. In this way, honest control is not really desirable. If you wish to do so, I am looking at your vote today when the opposition groups call for committees of inquiry on matters concerning your group.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14831	Mr Herbert Scheibner came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After this truly refreshing speech by Mrs Fekter, I would also like to be surprised, but in contrast to her, I am very pleased that, after a long delay in the SPÖs and Zauders, it is now also of the opinion that this important control instrument of Parliament should be a right of opposition to the government, namely the establishment of an investigation committee, and above all a minority law. Mr Kostelka! I don't know exactly what a reason there really was for this change. I assume – because I always accept the good, and also from you – that you have come to an appropriate knowledge and have not been so much guided by the concern in which SPÖ will find itself in the coming months and years, and have now made a request almost pro domo, in order to be able to set up research committees myself. Because when we asked for the vehement, last in 1998, your colleague Schieder asked whether the establishment of an investigation committee should be a minority right, let alone – and this is very interesting –: "This is a demand that was raised by the opposition in particular." That's quite clear! "In contrast, I say it openly, the experience with the behaviour of some opposition representatives in recent years. I've experienced this myself. That is why it is important to build more confidence in proper treatment." That is to say, one has to be good and let one know that one will not, in any case, check so hard and perhaps seek consensus, then one may be able to talk about the important instruments of control here in the House. But I see, as I said, very positively that there has been this thinking process. Nevertheless, I say: The establishment of this third is dangerous, because you do not know what the elections will bring! There may suddenly be no more political groups that reach this third, or perhaps at least the Social Democrats will no longer be able to reach it! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But there are still Court of Auditors test orders!]] There is everything possible, Mr Kostelka! But I would rather take up our proposal in this case. This is a real minority right! This can be extended, but we believe that at least a quarter of the Members should be able to set up an investigation committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we were already moving in the right direction, I would also have liked to address other problems relating to the control instruments of Members under the Rules of Procedure. Mr Kostelka! You referred to the Court of Auditors. There is, as you will know, the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This one was given to us a little bit as a sugar. It's called: Although there is no committee of inquiry, we give you this permanent subcommittee of the Court of Auditors! In the meantime, there have already been some examinations by this committee and a few attempts to bring light into the dark on various matters. The first of these committees concerned the procurement of the Austrian federal army, because there was suspicion that the award for various military procurements was not based solely on military principles. At the time, in hours of debate on the Rules of Procedure, we demanded that we also get a record of the various materials in order to be able to really control that everything has been done lawfully. . We have always said that we hope that there was legal action in this respect, but there were certain suspicions, and everyone should be interested in eliminating them. But what did this opportunity look like? – It has been said – and also Members of your group, Mr Kostelka, have joined in this opinion – that it is to be decided by a majority whether we Members who have a control mandate can really do so. They have rejected the possibility to consult the file, and they mean that we must be satisfied with reports. This is about the same as when a financial official comes to a company and wants to check the balance sheets and the evidence there, and the businessman tells him: You can check, but only my report. I'm giving you a report on my business, but I'm not going to let you check it out, and my balance sheet doesn't matter to you either! – According to these principles, such control mechanisms are being handled in this Parliament! In addition, they said: It's all strictly confidential! We must not violate the secrecy! Everything we get is very careful to treat! Ladies and gentlemen! What did we get then? – We have not been granted access to files in this confidential committee. We've only been given cover sheets of company documents. These cover sheets even contained a business number, and below stood: confidential. However, there was nothing left behind the covers, including the next confidential cover sheet. So we got a lot of confidential cover sheets. The summit on the whole matter was that even the Federal Law of the Federal Ministry Act was declared confidential. At the time, we MEPs have been given this as a document so that we can control it. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry Act was also stamped "confidential"! Mr Kostelka! If this is your opinion on control rights, but also on the control obligations we have as Members of Parliament, then you really have a bit of a way to really get in the direction that you can say: [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This question does not arise in the case of investigation committees! They have a control right!]] There is a separation of violence here in this country. There is a government that hopefully works well and sometimes badly. If it works badly, we as parliamentarians have the obligation to control it accordingly and to show maladministration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The investigation committee alone is not going to succeed, for as long as such things are possible, all this is only a tool! We can also talk about the rights of the control committees with regard to the state police and the army intelligence service in the Rules of Procedure Committee. All of this too is strictly secret, each of us is faced with a three-year criminal threat when he announces anything out of this committee to the public. - But we don't get anything! There, too, only strictly confidential information is reported about which we have already read in the newspaper two days before. So this is also the practice of parliamentary control! We have now seen what happens when it comes to dealing with petitions and citizens' initiatives here in this House: 14 or 15 cases of these instruments of direct democracy have expired because one was not prepared to treat them; they have expired with the end of the legislative period. Hundreds or thousands Austrians have announced themselves on a subject, have given their signature to it, have committed themselves, have raised their concerns here, but that was not even worth talking about, it has not even been negotiated in a committee for a minute. Or another example: We have once again seen how instruments such as the response to the question or the right to interact are being misused here. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! We'll take yours. Return really positive and hope that this is only the first step in the right direction. We would have to implement a whole set of programmes and measures that would be necessary in order at last to be able to fulfil the mandate we have been given from the electorate, namely to control the government.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14923	Mrs Madeleine Petrovic. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14942	Mr President. High house! Of course, the various requests for discussion reveal some of the different interests. I think that this is legitimate, and if the SPÖ just comes up with an application to grant minority rights to a third of the Members, I believe that I will be talking about it in the Committee as much as about your provocation, which provides for a quarter of the Members who, of course, need to be raised by three political groups, and then the Greens will not be concerned. The fact that the Greens have put forward a request that each group recognises this right certainly also has our preferences, but, as I think, it is also a need for democracy policy, because I believe that a minority right, which is not intended to be given to the smallest group, would be quite questionable from the construction. But we will have the opportunity to talk about it in the committee. Mrs Fekter has looked into the materials and has re-examined the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or the discussion that we held on the Rules of Procedure at the time. It mentioned the SPÖ's commitment to the rule of law at that time. – I emphasize that there were SPÖ votes in scientific literature at the time, which always advocated a minority right, including those of President Fischer. There were also such voices in the ÖVP, for example advocated neissers for them. So I think there are good arguments that science should strengthen its back. Mrs Fekter! At the time, this debate really made great and sacred promises that if the opposition of a procedural order were to be agreed, majority law would actually be handled in such a way that investigations on really important issues would have to be possible again. This is the first time that in such a long period of time – namely since 1990 – no one parliamentary investigation committee has been allowed, although, I believe, I am going to be obliged to do so, there have indeed been events in which, without any pre-conception, there were a lot of open questions and there are still a lot of questions and in which the public has also asked: Why isn't there being investigated? I remind you: It was about the Kurdish murders and the question of how the state apparatus behaved, that the murderers were able to leave our country without difficulties. There was also the suicide of the banker Praschak with serious political accusations. There has been evidence at that time that one will take this seriously. But I didn't have much to do with it. It was similar with the Causa Lassing: People died, the recovery was promised. However, it has not been carried out to this day. There were very dubious circumstances about responsibility. – But nothing happened. The last thing that really shocked me was the dialogue here between the clubmen Kostelka and Khol. Once again, on the verge of an investigation committee debate, the SPÖ has made it clear that, given the old arms sales of the German army, Minister Fassleven is now sitting here as a Member of Parliament, one should look at a committee of inquiry where these weapons have gone. It would be necessary to examine the conditions and clarify whether these weapons were made unusable or whether they might have appeared on a war scene. On the side of the ÖVP it was then called: If you do, you'll get an Omofuma committee! That is what it looks like, Mrs Fekter. It is not about majority rights or minority rights, it is about a total refusal of control – and that has been done for almost ten years! This is politically unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Fekter! They said they feared that if, in the context of these applications for minority law, only one application could be dealt with, forest and meadow issues would be made a subject of investigation, these would be examined for a long time and therefore the real scandals could not be re-examined. I think this is just a protection that this instrument is not being handled inflationaryly. We don't want to. But if you have this fear, I have to say: If you have such an understanding of each other among the coalition parties, how do you want to govern our country? How do you want to rule if you only put each other under democratic intolerantness? I think that's really bad! Even if it were, you could still set a deadline by a majority. Finally, Mrs Fekter, you have said, in the direction of SPÖ: We look at the SPÖ's voting behaviour in the Causa AMS and "Euroteam". – Yes, we can look at that! But I look above all Your voting behaviour, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because if you think that is even a scandal that you are not, little or little, then I ask you: What prevents you from agreeing to this opposition request – you are also opposition yourself, in part, a bit – if you think – and so I have heard it – there is something that should be investigated in itself?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Oils: Partly!]] If you still shouldn't decide that way – and I have my guess that this could happen – then I ask you: What's the motive? - Unless you've made some deal again. That is exactly what the population in our country – and not just the members of the opposition – considers to be really unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's your understanding! This is not a matter of different schools, not of majority or minority law, but of a democratic policy attitude. No one wants to celebrate any nullities here. As I said, I think we were highly constructive in the negotiations on the Rules of Procedure. We have focused on the criminal code, we have set up reasons for witnesses to reject the statement, we have created rights for trustees and lawyers so that they can assist a person as well. We don't want any tribunals, but we really want some information about things that are in need of information. If it is no longer a matter of course among government parties that in affairs that really move this country, Parliament should also be able to examine freely and openly, I say: That is really a shame in Europe! This remains behind a democratic standard that has been achieved. This is a control according to the Bazar method: I look away from your scandal, you look away from my scandal! I can't do that anymore! That is the control system of certain "honourful societies", and that in this House, I believe, has lost nothing. In this sense: Change your behaviour and allow parliamentary investigations – in whatever legal form – again!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14993	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15015	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have here today, I would like to say, shawls heard from the sides of the SPÖ. Creeds have been swallowed, and democracy is to be further developed once again. We have heard from Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka that the initiative naturally assumes from the SPÖ that it is the carrier of democratic rights and the initiator of further development, and so on and so on. – Please, at the end of the day you still have to take yourself seriously and can! I think that if we are talking about the development of democracy, then we should also talk about how democratic rights were ordered here in the House in the past when individual Members' rights were cut down with every reform of the Rules of Procedure, when Members' rights were even cut down with every reform of the Rules of Procedure, so that it was no longer possible to exercise the right to speak! That's a fact. Now the SPÖ – perhaps under pressure – is also coming with agreements of the Greens and making a request. Whether you really mean it seriously, you will still see, or whether it should be just a rocket that will never have reached its goal at the end of this legislative period – who knows how long it may last. We already know something like that from the past SPÖ. I really don't think you're taking it seriously – just as you are dealing with the alleged minority law. It has already been said a lot about the fact that it should be a third by chance and that by chance the SPÖ still has this third. But that you do it for the interests of the citizens or that is why I do something good for Parliament, I do not take it from you. Then the chief consumer protection officer comes from the Chamber of Labour, who in itself always represents consumers and individuals, but never the interests of the MP, here and scatters nebula grenades: The countries are supposed to go after them! How does he get on it? – I think we should all come first at our own door and not always ask – if we already confess to federalism – that the others should do something. We should set a good example. But precisely the Rules of Procedure you have decided is not a good example. They supported a decision to prove that it is, in fact, a majority instrument. They say that you are leaning on the Civil Procedures, but in fact it is not based on the Civil Procedures. They say that the quality of criminal law had to be removed from the committee of inquiry and that a decision of evidence had to be taken in the sense of the Civil Procedure Code. Anyone who knows the Civil Procedure Rules knows that a decision to prove is not a procedural management of the procedure. He's totally insignificant. They give the so-called evidence decision a completely different quality here. In the future, you want to allow only the content and subject, evidence, witnesses and other things you enjoy – by a majority. In fact, you are not concerned with majority rights either, because the majority here in the House was always in favour of minority rights in the case of investigation committees and control rights. You nod, not with your head. [[Call to the liberals: Inner!]] As far as I know, there have been representatives from both camps, from which SPÖ, who has spent a long time in opposition, as well as from the ÖVP, which was also in opposition for a long time. At this time of opposition you were always for it, and there were a few waker fighters who also expressed this position. It doesn't happen so often that you don't change your point of view. In my opinion, however, there has always been a majority in favour, even for the individual committee of inquiry, but this has not allowed the coalition. In my opinion, this has never been a question of majority voting in this House – I assume that there may still be some unbounded, free mandate here and there – but it has always been a question of the coalitionary force and the Raeson that you have imposed on your individual Member. They were never allowed to vote on this question as they might have wanted it sometime. That is why it is not necessarily a question of majority voting, in the sense of parliamentary majority groups, but always a question of who is sitting in a coalition with whom to prevent something, namely information and detection. I believe that the SPÖ is playing here in turn in such a way that a step of courage comes again, but again with restrictions, with majority rules in the Rules of Procedure, with the indication that other countries do not have them, and again restrictions on what we can do at all, how often and in what sense. The courage is replaced by fear. In reality, courage and fear constantly alternate. In reality, it is not about courage or fear or democracy, but it is really about preventing education and democracy. It's written to you in the main book! But we like to look at how you're going to handle it, whether it's just going to be a pipecreper or if it actually leads to success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15057	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15079	Mr President. Mrs Fekter! Mr. Graf! Of course, I can also recall that Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has already talked quite differently about the question of minority law or majority law in the setting up of committee of inquiry, but we are pleased that he has spoken differently today. He has become smarter; I agree with him now. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He'll talk differently tomorrow!]] Let us give him the privilege that, if I am not mistaken, Chancellor Adenauer, at the time, used very much for himself when a journalist pointed out that he had said something quite different yesterday than today. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: "Before yesterday"!]] Or just before yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: "What do I care about yesterday"!]] That's when he gave a loud response: Don't frustrate me with the nonsense I used to feel yesterday! It's good to see you. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner, he said "swallow"!]] – This privilege I quite agree with to every other colleague in this House. It is true, Mr Graf, that the details will be discussed. Then it'll turn out: Is it serious or is it not? For the time being, I am optimistic. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This was the same with the reform of the Rules of Procedure and also with the reform of the Rules of Procedure!]] I know, yes, but the situation is a bit different today, I think it is basically positive. Why? – Because no group in this House can be quite sure of what role it will play, let us say, from Easter. I'm pretty sure the Greens will be in the opposition role. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'm sure too!]] [[Further calls.]] But where the SPÖ will be located or where the FPÖ will be located is unclear. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I've already finished my bets!]] At the ÖVP – I admit – I also have my question marks. I had originally thought – since I had to read every day in the newspaper that all the movements of this country, at least as far as the ÖVP is concerned, are in the direction of opposition – that the ÖVP will be the first to join the body that requires the establishment of an investigation committee to be a minority right. Of course, every opposition party must have this interest, especially the new opposition party ÖVP – I would have thought! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Now, of course, I notice a certain atmospheric change. [[Abg. Dr. Stumpful: Blitzgneißer!]] It could be that the ÖVP with the SPÖ, or it could be that the ÖVP with the FPÖ – and there, of course, the thing looks different again! But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Don't I still have in my ear, "new style" and so on? Does this relate only to the continuation of the old coalition? Not on a new coalition? You will already be tested as you think it is and whether these rights apply to you only if you are also in opposition, or if you understand something more, something from a democratic point of view. Mrs Fekter, we will observe you personally in this context in particular. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15225	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 18/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 9. Point First reading: Proposal by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the National Council's Rules of Procedure (38/A)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15266	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There is no word in Hiezu. I agree with Amendment 38/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 10. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (9dE Vr 7903/99, Hv 4827/99) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council of Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller(15) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Independent Administrative Senate Salzburg (UVS-5/10.502/14-1999) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council of Karl Oellinger(16 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (9aE Vr 7102/99, Hv 4338/99) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr. Andreas Khol(17 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the Request of the National Criminal Court Vienna (9dE Vr 4862/99, Hv 2993/99) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler (18 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15355	We now proceed to points 10 to 13 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr. President! Aren't you caught there?]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But that's not a culprit!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There has been no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15410	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to express briefly the voting behaviour of the Greens in general. We were and are not, of course, in those cases where it is not uninteresting for Greens, for example, because a Green Member has been accused by the current Second President of the National Council and this Green Member is advocating himself to the We've set it up. It would, of course, not be uninteresting to ask here from our side that Mr. Khol, too, should face this issue. He will take your votes in this debate. The point is: We also think that this extradition by Mr Khol is wrong for reasons of principle. – I just wanted to explain this to you at the beginning and then, in particular, to deal with the situation in my case briefly. Where do you want me to start, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – For example, in the statement of a Social Democratic MP at a SPÖ Federal Congress, 1949 or 1950, when she complained that a former Nazi had been made a police director in Salzburg? Should I start where history continued in the 1980s when, in fact, a former Nazi was made a police director by the Social Democrats? Or should I continue where the story is now? I would like to make the last weeks or the last year in this Causa Revue happen. This causa is not uninteresting because it's a piece The history of time, which has not been settled for a long time, is not even by the Members or by the representatives of the government parties. It's on and on, it's an uninteresting thing if it's on a 1. November, on an All Saints' Day, a Waffen-SS marched on the Salzburg Municipal Cemetery and with the saying "Our Honor is Faithful" as well as similar proverbs and Nazi emblems that are worn at the Revers, behind the Revers, express their sympathy with a regime: with a criminal regime! Is that pointless? – Obviously, it is pointless for the police in Salzburg. More than that: It's not just pointless, it's "brauchtum". This is the custom in Austria, when one marches on the municipal cemetery in Salzburg, carrying his Nazi emblems and the Nazi proverbs. This is also the custom in the eyes of the Minister of the Interior; he says: Yeah, that's custom. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to reject a rally against this custom at the municipal cemetery in Salzburg. That's to be forbidden then! That is what the Minister of the Interior also means, and that is, of course, the Salzburg Police Directorate. Even if the rally is designed in such a way – it is not uninteresting in what situation and in which ensemble it takes place – that the "comradeship alliance" first makes its usual wreathing down and then makes a political party, namely the FPÖ, its wreathing down and some mandates of the FPÖ remain, so that the rallying of the Waffen-SS can really take place as customs, i.e. this customs event of old Nazis. All of this is a matter of custom. If then some people stand around this municipal cemetery, distribute and drop partezettes for murdered Jews, then this is an act that has not only led to several administrative criminal proceedings in the eyes of the Salzburg Police Directorate, but has also led the Salzburg Police Department to ask the prosecutor whether it should be done against those people who have "traveled" because of disturbances in the rest of the dead – that is, because of a criminal provision. The Procuratorate has not given up for this, but the Salzburg Police Directorate was and believes it is something about it: Illeagues stand around people in the cemetery and demonstrate for murdered Jews – at least with an administrative penalty! I'm not telling you this story because I want to make it clear that I didn't mind being delivered first. That would be a claim of protection. I know that if you want to take yourself seriously here in this Parliament, you cannot be extradited and not extradited. I am therefore telling you this story in order to draw attention to what has happened there in Salzburg – and is still happening. It happened again this year, because the Salzburg Police Directorate's action differed only in nuances of that one last year. A rally was reported again, only the police management did not even ignore the application this time. That's how it looks with the police department in Salzburg! I tell you this story, too, because it was clear to me from the beginning that I was a political representative, and because it was clear to the Salzburg Police Directorate that if it forbidds my rally, it would prohibit the embodiment of a political party, while another party under the title "Brauchtum" could naturally make its rally. It should be so, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, if you distance yourself enough, what – Mr Haigermoser was one of the leaders in this FPÖ rally – has not become clear enough! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who Stalinist...! Archipelago Gulag!]] The distance to the Waffen-SS! Mr Haigermoser, I have been able to observe your distance with my own eyes. She was so minimal! [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Archipelago Gulag!]] But that's another story. I would like to stay at the Salzburg Police Department. [[Call to the Freeman:Distance especially to the Communists!]] From the very beginning, the Salzburg Police Department has known that it is running this administrative criminal proceedings against a representative, against a parliamentary representative. And it has not bothered them at all to conduct this procedure. That is why I am also very grateful for the Committee's statement, which makes this clear again, in which the Minister of the Interior or the Federal Police Directorate is alerted to the fact that the Salzburg Police Directorate should also comply with constitutional laws. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this approach... [[Abg. Haigermoser: How do you keep the laws?]] This rally has only been temporarily banned by the Salzburg Police Authority. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You trample on the graves dead! It's a political body-floating!]] A constitutional action is pending, Mr Haigermoser. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You trample on the graves dead! You should be ashamed!]] They should actually widen out for a political rally against weapons SSlers to take place. You should act for this, even if you have felt quite little distance to this weapons SS in time and space. [[Call out to the liberals: great!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I believe that this incident should not be discussed on the subject of immunity, but on what is still happening in Salzburg. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't have to demonstrate at the cemetery!]] You have a demonstration, Mr Scheibner. You didn't notice the FPÖ every year on 1st. November is demonstrating that your delegates are at the forefront of the demonstration? Don't you consider this a political rally? ==References====External links== November protested? [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Do not be ridiculous, Mr Scheibner, that has nothing to do with custom. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, that's not ridiculous!]] This is just as a political manifestation of your proximity and your connection to this weapons SS, as it is from the sides of the Waffen SS a manifestation of their attitude of the Eternal. [[Abg. Scheibner: The "K IV" is not a free organization!]] On the other hand, if you demonstrate, you would expect support from a police authority and the possibility of this rally to take place, but not this procedure of the Salzburg Police Directorate! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is the head of the "Cameradschaftsbund", Mr. Oellinger?]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: It is politically alarming when an authority calls the sayings of the eternal "brauchtum" and tries to ban a political rally for murdered Jews from doing so, from the point of view that it is something politically hostile. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What does the red light mean, Mr. President? – Voluntary? Sorry!]] You should remember this, Mr Ofner, even if you are getting impatient here because I might be talking to you for too long in this causa.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15679	Mr Gradwelt. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15701	Mr President. High house! To my previous speaker and to the remarks of my previous speaker only so much: Mr Oellinger, there is no Social Democratic Federal Minister who sees the wearing of Nazi emblems as a custom, but there are Social Democratic Federal Ministers who are very well aware of the past. [[Abg. Young: There was a minister who used to be at the SS!]] [[Call to the Freeman:Kabinett Kreisky I!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to deal with the four reports from the Committee on Immunities, which are in place here in the House today for decision-making, and with the decision-making practice in the Immunities Committee four years ago. To this end, I would like to remind you briefly that in 1995 we were able to reach a four-party agreement, after a comprehensive and long discussion – all those who were in the immunity committee at that time – to know that until the early hours of the morning – trying to connect two things: to maintain the immunity protection of the Members of this House, but also to enable the citizens to oppose mandates who have violated §s 111, 113, 115, 115 and 152 of the Criminal Code, or who are accused of having violated it. Ladies and gentlemen! The development in recent years is right because the immunity committee has rarely had to deal with extradition desires in recent years. That is to say, one could conclude that the Members of the House hold back a little more in their statements and that this has improved the tone of Members. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I would like to say that the interest in the judicial persecution has decreased!]] That would be a possibility, too. But I'd rather stick to my choice, Mr. Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's your right!]] Thanks a lot. In my speech, however, I would also like to deal with a special case, namely the case of my colleague Peter Doppelmüller. The delivery of the colleague Doppelmüller has been requested in a request for extradition from the State Court for Criminal Matters in Vienna. There is a strange situation, a situation for me and after the decision-making in the Committee's immunity committee for the members of the committee as a whole, strange. ==References== ==References====External links== November 1999, is for the approval of the official persecution of Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller. The deadline for the decision here in the House is 11. January 2000 However, colleague Doppelmüller as accused has a charge of the said court, dated with 1. On 31 December 1999, for the main proceedings, which took place on 31 December 1999. January 2000 will take place. That is to say, the court has not even made the effort to comply with the federal constitution and to wait, wait, colleague Gaugg, until the immunity committee advises or the plenary has decided in due time whether extradition is agreed or not. [[Abg. Gaugg: Criticism of the Justice! Is that what it is?]] This fact finding is also reflected in a resolution annexed to the report of the Immunities Committee, which calls on the Federal Minister for Justice to draw the attention of the courts, in particular, to compliance with Article 57 B-VG, so that such things no longer occur. In a letter to the President, our president, Peter Kostelka, asked us to discuss this at the next presidential conference. I assume that in this case – as in the case mentioned by my previous speaker – the President will call on the members of the government to inform the subordinate authorities of how to handle immunity practices. Ladies and gentlemen! Another clarification seems to me to be important, which is also reflected in this report by the Immunities Committee and in the request under points 2 and 3 on the extradition request of Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Doppelmüller finds. The issue is that the incriminated distribution of the Stenographical Protocol is regarded as objective and professional immunity and therefore is not equivalent to non-professional immunity. The decision-making practice of the Immunities Committee has not had any influence on professional immunity. I am also very pleased with this decision-making fact-finding in the request, which is accompanied by the report of the Committee on Immunities. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: We have also discussed in the Immunities Committee the use of a super-group in the future, which will deal with further decision-making practice or legal possibilities and improvements, especially in the field of civil law. I am confident that we will succeed in meeting the new challenges in this cross-group in adapting the right of immunity to the new requirements. Dear ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I can wish you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen, who are busy here in the House, for the upcoming holidays a really quiet time, a happy Christmas festival and a good slide into the new century, blessed especially with health and success!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15797	Mr Franz Steindl came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank you for the unanimous election of the Committee on Immunities. Four agenda items were to be discussed at the first meeting. We therefore had a lot to do, and before that, all four parties really tried to define extradition practice. I believe that the principle of the last legislative period has proved its worth. In any case, it will be delivered in the case of private creditors concerning ill-repudiation, the accusation of a criminal offence, insult and credit damage that has already been committed, even in the future. The balance sheet gives us the right. I can follow Heinz Gradweldnur's remarks on this point. For example, when you look at the numbers of the XVII. The legislative period, in which a very different extradition practice has ruled, can be determined: At that time, there were 35 cases, but only 21 cases in the last legislative period. That's a clear difference! In the four cases that we dealt with yesterday in the Committee, politicians of all couleurs were affected. That means – and I want to say that as an obmann specified – that there is no one-sidedness in the treatment of these cases. And it is actually not to be seen and not to make clear to a offended citizen why a politician should enjoy immunity in such cases. In my opinion, the discussion in the Committee was very good on the part of all four parties. There were different points of view. Mr Graf has expressed his position, and I can recall that during the previous legislative period there was even a request from the liberals for the abolition of non-professional immunity. The opinion of the Greens is completely contrary: Mr Petrovic – Mr Oellinger has now stressed this – has taken a completely different attitude in this regard. Nevertheless, we have treated these cases very differently. And it turns out that it is good that the Committee deals with every case and we do not immediately withdraw. The case of oillinger is completely different. This is an administrative crime, with regard to which we have unanimously meant that immunity should not be removed in this case. The Committee was set up unanimously, as well as at Doppelmüller, as described above. In this case too, we acted differently, and there were also unanimous decisions. So, in summary, I mean: In any case, professional immunity is not shaken nor should it be shaken, nor is it to the outsider. Instead, we should look at each other for ourselves, and we have agreed that we will give a fine touch to the practice we have now decided on through an interparliamentary working group. As an observer, I will ensure that it is used at the beginning of the year, and there will be a lot of discussions on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15873	As the last speaker, Mr Martin Graf has been mentioned. Voluntary time limit: 6 minutes; His group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15897	Mr President. High house! A lot has already been said by my previous speaker. The principle debate that we have started to hold in the Committee has at least moved us to decide to set up a super-group to ensure that immunity in this House is treated in its real sense. We have many different aspects of different directions to highlight, but I believe that it should always be an essential moment in the parliamentary immunity or in securing the free mandate, in the end the thought that a Member of this House cannot be made mouth-to-mouth on the basis of statements or allegations that are also subject to political examination. To this end, we had several accesses, and we have found that it is not really about the paragraphs of evil renunciation to make a Member of this House mouth dead, but essentially – as the past has shown – rather about the civil law component. A recent case from Vienna's Landtag concerns a Member of the Greens. However, other cases in the past have also shown that, as a result of civil law measures and complaints, especially if one is made against an economically powerful claim and can be taken into political responsibility, it can ultimately result in a Member's economic existence being threatened. And we don't want that, as I believe, all of us here in the House! It would therefore be good if we discussed how we regulate the parliamentary immunity of each individual Member in a timely manner, so that the way in which extradition has to be done cannot be an arbitrary instrument. The fact that the practice of pronouncing in the past was actually an embarrassing solution. Therefore, we should come to see that we actually create a law that must be adhered to. You shouldn't stick to the saying practice. This is most essential to me, because a saying practice can be changed at any time, depending on how majority relations change. At the moment, there is a consensus in certain respects, but we do not know how this will behave in the future. I would like to say something about Mr Oellinger, because he has actually broken a taboo here from the speaker's desk, namely the taboo that from the plenary you try less from the point of view of the substance to light a case of immunity, unless you really want to beat political change out of it. They're trying this again and again! They're trying to mix some things up. I'm telling you quite honestly: It is not up to you to try to make the Freedom Party disgraceful or to say evil will only because they have been on the All Saints' Day for more than 40 years – the day you remember in this Republic of the Dead, and we are still living in a majority Catholic country – even on a war monument and a fall monument, namely the monument of the fallen of the last two World Wars! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Just as more than 40 clubs do in Salzburg, just as police units and a variety of fire brigades do, so does the Freedom Party. Mr Oellinger! This right of laying down wreath and this right of customs care can never be taken by you and your family! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will take action to ensure that the fire brigades, the comrades and the police can put their cranes there in the future. You really can't ask us to give up this right! I'll tell you: They have been defended by the laws of this Republic. Not only have you made an oath here once, but you have been praised several times. You know: If a demonstration is not approved, then it also has to be maintained! You're a law-abiding citizen, aren't you? Is it not worth much more? – This is your ambiguity! We also condemn the introduction of a procedure against you as a Member of Parliament, even punishing you at first instance and calling on you to appeal. That is where parliamentary immunity belongs, if you may also be an unknown Member, who may not have known what I am advocating. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But I'm telling you: We don't want to put ourselves in a bed with your mind's sniffing as you put it here more often. We will always stand up for it: that we can lay down cranes in a cemetery on All Saints' Day and on All Souls' Day, just as many thousands and thousands of Austrians in this country do. You won't be able to forbid us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15980	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 15 of the supplements to decide on the following: First: In response to the request of the Regional Court of Criminal Matters of Vienna of 12 December 1885, the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part of the Community, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part of the Community, of the other part, of the Community. For approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller is referred to in Article 57(1). 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act stated that a connection between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller exists. Secondly, An official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Doppelmüller is hereby approved as the incriminated behaviour of non-professional immunity (Article 57 para. 3 B-VG). Thirdly, If the distribution of the National Council's Stenographical Protocols is incriminated, it is considered that a persecution is excluded on the grounds of objective immunity (Article 33 B-VG). Similarly, the persecution of the honourable Member because of the public reproduction of a quote of a statement made by him in the profession of the honourable Member himself would mean professional immunity (Article 57 para. 1 B-VG). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This request has been accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 16 of the supplements to decide on the following: First: ==References====External links==* Official website In November 1999 for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council of Karl Oellinger, the provisions of Article 57(a) are replaced by the following: 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act states that there is a link between the alleged criminal act and the parliament's political activity to the National Council of Karl Ollinger. Secondly, There is no official persecution of the Member of the National Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This, in turn, is done unanimously and is unanimously decided. [[Abg. Young: Parnigoni has been sitting!]] Was it unanimous? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Yes!]] Thank you. I should like to say once again: It was unanimous. We shall also vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 17 of its supplements to decide on the following: First: In response to the request of the Regional Court of Criminal Matters of Vienna of 16 June 1811, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of First Instance for a preliminary ruling a question for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 16 June 1971 on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of the laws of the Member States relating Andreas Khol is referred to in Article 57(1). 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act states that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Andreas Khol. Secondly, An official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Andreas Khol is hereby approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. Before I see the outcome of the vote, I would like to point out § 68 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with this request. – The request was accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 18 of its supplements to decide on the following: First: In response to the request of the Regional Court of Criminal Matters of Vienna of 9 June 1885. On 1 December 1999, the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler is referred to in Article 57(1). 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act stated that a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler exists. Secondly, An official persecution of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler is approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. 14. Point election of Austrian representatives to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16090	We shall now proceed to the 14th and the last item on the agenda: Election of Austrian representatives to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Austria sends six members and as many replacement members. The National Council shall elect six members and three replacement members, three replacement members of the Federal Council. With regard to the members and substitute members to be elected by the National Council, I would like to propose the election as members of the Edeltraud Gatterer, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer, Herbert Scheibner, Peter Schieder, Dr. Michael Spindeleggerund as replacement members, the members Wolfgang Jung, Dr. Ilse Mertelund Mag. Terezija Stoisits to choose. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The election of the Austrian members was thus carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Before we come to the debate on the next item on the negotiations, I would like to express my warm thanks to the outgoing Members who represented the Austrian National Council in the Council of Europe: Mrs Karlsson, Mrs Langthaler and Mr Moser. However, I would also like to express special thanks to those Members who have been expelled and who have been dealing with the Council of Europe for a long time: State Secretary other than Dkfm. Holger Bauer, former clubman of the People's Party DDr. Friedrich König and Dr. Walter Schwimmer, who has now been elected Secretary General of the Council of Europe. I believe that all these Members have been worthy and efficient in representing our country, and we should be grateful to them. [[General condolences.]] We wish the newly elected Members good luck and effectiveness in their new work! The agenda is exhausted. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16194	We now proceed to the negotiation of two applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry which have been requested on similar issues, for which there is an unpregnant agreement between the leaders of the political groups of all four parties. I'd like to read this right now. First: Request by Mr Öllinger and Mr Comrades to set up an investigative committee on the investigation of supervisory duties by the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs towards the labour market service. Secondly, Request by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades to set up an investigative committee on the examination of responsibility in connection with the lack of efficiency of labour market policies and the conduct of labour market services. Both requests have now been distributed to all MEPs. Applications shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Mr Gaugg and Mr Colleagues, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG, on the examination of responsibilities relating to the lack of efficiency of labour market policies and the conduct of the AMS The National Council wants to decide: "In order to examine the political and legal responsibilities associated with the lack of efficiency of labour market policies and the need for information of the AMS, a Committee of Inquiry consisting of 17 MEPs in relation to 5 SPÖ, 4 FPÖ, 4 ÖVP and 1 Greens will be set up." In accordance with § 33 para. 2 GOG-NR to hold a debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16294	In agreement between all the four political groups of the House, a single joint debate is being held on the above-mentioned requests, once again: unprejudicial, i.e. without an example, whereby the first speaker is given a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons, each speaking time of one speaker per group having a speaking time of 5 minutes. On the other hand, is there any objection? – This is not the case; we can therefore proceed in this way. Any opinions not expected from members of the Federal Government or from State Secretarys, or not, should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Legal speaking time: 10 minutes, voluntary time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16330	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Unfortunately, neither the Federal Chancellor nor the competent Minister is present during this debate. All those who took part in the meetings of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in the early summer of this year, in which the conduct of "Euroteam" was examined, know how critical this matter is. The operations of "Euroteam" to waste tax money made available in the interest of young people have been dealt with in detail and will still be the subject today and now. In any event, this case is pending with the public prosecutor's office because it is unacceptable that a company based in several companies is exclusively engaged in public funding, and its activity is ultimately involved. That must be unique! This should also be borne in mind by individual examples. All that happened within the framework of "Euroteam" was done in front of the labour market service. This labour market service now has its two directors to order again, and it has now attracted public attention, but not perhaps because it finally mediates unemployed people efficiently – no! – but because of money transactions that are urgently in need of information. On the one hand, we are dealing with the sale of a property in Weihburggasse 30, on the other hand, of these funds at the Trigon Bank, which has recently become public turbulence. All these incidents suggest that an investigation committee be set up here in the House urgently, on the one hand in the interest of taxpayers, on the other, but also in order to protect the Federal Chancellor, who is therefore involved in this matter, because his son, Jan Klima, held a position on the call of the "Euroteam" managing director there. But he's always meant that he's not doing anything about it and the like. – All of this has happened in front of the eyes of the labour market service, in front of the Federal Chancellor and in front of the eyes of the Minister of Social Affairs Hostash. I bring a little example: There was a project whose cost was 3.8 million schilling. A total of eight people took part, and five trainers were employed. However, the employment success was equal to zero. None of the eight project participants have got a job. Interesting, however, are the total cost of 3.8 million schilling, and they are all the more interesting when you know that 837 000 S and the secretariat have been spent on the project management. – This is only a small detail, but shows how tax money is handled: without control and without appropriate measures. Obviously, such occurrences in the labour market service can be over-checked because the gentlemen are over-employed with property sales, money transactions and others! There are also sensational travel activities of the partners there. For example, the trips to South America, the Côte d’Azur to France and Palermo have led them to surprise: There were the rulers too! Maybe they learned a little bit from the mafia there. At any rate, all this was financed by tax money that should have been used in the interests of the Austrian young people – and not for the travel activities of some wild apprentices of the Federal Chancellor and the Ministry of Social Affairs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There has been an apprenticeship offensive in which "Euroteam" has been commissioned by the labour market service, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Social Affairs to ensure that unemployed young people have a corresponding employment. And it is very interesting what measures have been taken in this context. We've all experienced this: There the well-known Mr. Chair-Parbarer – to mention him by name; now he has disappeared in the sinking and is waiting for how the judicial surveys will proceed – for example, the SPÖ Vienna advises. He sat in the SPÖ Vienna for 243 long hours and pleaded for the admission of an apprentice. The success was zero. Not a single apprentice has been admitted. It was equally true of the "Kinderfreunden" Vienna: 343 hours of consultation, reception success zero. He also advised the municipality of Vienna. I assume, even with the agreement of the ÖVP, that the SPÖ no longer has an absolute majority. However, it only took 152 hours, and he had zero success again. Once you've been successful. In a law firm, the gentlemen have been sitting for 349 hours in the law firm Kraft and Winternitz according to the records they led and after which they also charged them. An apprentice was admitted there. This apprentice was probably needed there because at 349 hours of counseling someone who later cleaned up the desk or served the coffee cups. It's just too adventurous to imagine someone spending 349 hours in this way! The total cost was – and that's not so funny anymore – 7 million schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the reason why urgent action is needed in the interest of taxpayers and ultimately in our all interest to investigate what is really in the labour market service. Apparently, the gentlemen are acting there in accordance with the old principle of proportionality – there is also a red and a black director there – how it continues to work well everywhere in public enterprises. As I said, That works great there! Finally, all these incidents were also due to the fact that this Board of Directors is also party-politically occupied. These must not act like this, but Mr. Stühlparrer, who spent his years of teaching with Mr Klima and who, in the end, lived quite cheaply and well at tax costs for years. I could give you other examples of how "Euroteam" acted in front of the labour market service. Therefore, my request: If you've had democracy since 3. Take a little more seriously on October – I now appeal to the EIA in a special way, because Mr Steindl has made a special point in his statements before this legislative period, that there is a need for urgent clarification that it is absolutely necessary for us to be here... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Mr Steindl! Now the dirt has become even bigger – at the expense of taxpayers. That is why it is finally time for you to convince your group that it agrees to the setting up of an investigation committee. You will surely sleep quieter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not a question of reducing the funds for the unemployed in Austria and, on the other hand, a few gentlemen in this Republic, at the expense of taxpayers, making a beautiful life!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16409	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Speech time: 10 minutes, voluntary time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16430	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to do something more differentiated than Mr Gaugg – this is also a slightly different subject. However, because we believe that "Euroteam" and AMS/Real Estate Use have something to do with each other, we will also support both applications. I would like to give you some information for the best. ==References== An advertisement is published in the Vienna Newspaper on April: AMS offers property for sale. - On the same 16th. April reaches the AMS, at 0.53 a.m., a fax in which a broker company says it has an interest in it. Later, the AMS will explain: This fax of the interested party or of this broker company has nothing to do with the beginning of the auction bid period, but this fax has been written completely independently of the auction bid period a few weeks before. Later, the AMS will explain: In this fax of the broker company, the broker company has already demanded that the AMS pay a commission. – There is no mention of a commission in the fax itself. The commission decides later on by the Board of Directors because it assumes that the commission must, of course, be paid. Even later – but unfortunately not in the AMS’s bodies – the fact that this broker company not only receives a commission from the AMS, the seller of the property, but of course also receives a commission from the client. There's also the lawyer Krüger, who knows: It is excluded that you receive a commission from both sides. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: No, this is customary...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It's common? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Yes!]] It is common for you to be both as a client... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: From both sides! From the seller and the buyer!]] You don't know the Judicature for that, but I suppose you'll already know what you're saying. Later, the AMS will have to find that the lawyer of the AMS – perhaps you are so educated – is not only a member of the freedomable honorary court of the Vienna Freemans, but also an appeal to the Trigon Bank of your own interest... Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer is a member of an honorary court of the Vienna Freemans. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is the member?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of honorary dish? We don't have a dish of honor!]] There are some other honorary FPÖ personalities sitting in this honorary court. This Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, who is also regarded as a conciliator within the Bar Association of the Freemans, has caught up with the Trigon Bank. Now I'm not saying this is a free cause, but it's a fact. This Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer tells the AMS: The establishment of this sales proceeds of 90 million schilling should not be found in the accounting; it would be confusing for the poor AMS if 90 million schilling were to appear in the normal form at once; let's leave it out of the normal financial performance; let's put it on a trust account, let's pay from this trust account best the commission – the broker commission, which is not supposed to become very public – and also the legal fees away; then you will get no confusion in your normal conduct. It also has a proposal for where this is to be expected: He has a cheap offer from the Trigon Bank. – All of this is done in June. At the same time, Mr Fichtenbauer is also the Supervisory Board of this Trigon Bank and I assume, as the Supervisory Board of this Bank already in June, that the Bank is not doing very well. He is not only the Supervisory Board there – that is what he says to the AMS – but he is also the shareholder of this bank – he no longer tells the AMS. Therefore, as a shareholder, he is also interested in the fact that the money will be charged with this bank at a crucial stage, because the bank will be better again. The AMS cannot have this interest in the fact that the money in this critical situation is charged to the Trigon Bank because this money may not be seen anymore. But within the AMS, some important rulers support the presumption at the Trigon Bank. I'm sorry, it's your representative in the AMS who supported this: Mr. Böhm; he likes it. Only then, when the Trigon Bank is powerful, and only when there is AMS-internal unrest, does Mr. Böhm say: I've distanced myself from it early. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen, which I have gladly told you here. I think that only these circumstances are: the possible presumption of 90 million public funds at the crucial moment when the Trigon Bank is powerful, this pursuit including commissions, including the very strange construction of companies on the buyer's side, which had already been built before the contract was awarded to the buyer, so that before the end of the auction period the buyer was obviously very sure that he would receive this award – so all these constructions concern the AMS, they concern important persons within the AMS, and they concern the Social Ministry as the supervisory authority. It shouldn't matter to you and us. It is more than strange what happened there, ladies and gentlemen. So far, I have not told the story how Mr. Böhm's AMS funds, so to speak, have been so bad in a money market account with foreign exchange risk that a significant interest-rate loss has occurred. On the other hand, I note that there are also dubious crimes there. I think that should be the reasons that lead to the setting up of an investigation committee, because if we do not consider this to be in need of information, if we do not think that it is in need of clarification that the Board of Directors of the AMS has agreed to all this, always, at any time has raised and meant that it is all right, and that to date means everything and at least tries or threatens complaints – it is Mr Böhm, not the Board of Directors who threatens it – although the facts are already on the table, if this does not justify the establishment of an investigation committee, then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: So what else is going to lead to an investigation committee?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16532	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. Mr Otmar Brix spoke. Legal speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg, Member of Parliament, has found those words almost immediately and has used those arguments which he used before the summer. [[Abg. Scheibner: The problems have not changed!]] At the same time, he has prepared against the infirmary of the Federal Minister here the same attack, which goes into emptiness just as he went into emptiness before the summer. He has just – with all his arguments – not presented an argument here, and on that it is very important to me: We decided before the summer that, at the request of the Federal Chancellor and also of the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Health of the Court of Auditors, the examination of the whole of the Causa "Euroteam" and that the Court of Auditors had to deliver its report. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I think it is wrong for democracy policy to make convictions before all the facts – and we are still waiting for the Court of Auditors to find them – are on the table. Let us continue, then, when the results of the Court of Auditors' inquiry are known to us! Has You understand so much democracy policy that you too are waiting for this Court of Auditors report – do not go against democracy in advance by demanding something that is not yet available! [[Call to the liberals: Against the parliamentary majority!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not against democracy! Against the Euroteam!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A second one: In the case of the AMS and that report, which has now been brought by Mr Oellinger, things are a little different. It is true that in some circles, some people also had such considerations as they were presented here. It is also true, however, and is also true that these considerations have not been implemented, namely not when Herbert Buchinger learned about them. He's got it on 30. In September 1999, the contract was signed to him. That's where it was stopped! [[Abg. Oellinger: Isn't that even worrying that the boss won't do it until 30. On September?]] That is why we have to say first: It was stopped and was not implemented. That's something essential. However, Mr Oellinger, when we talk about the facts, we have to put the whole facts on the table. Then you also have to say that after 30. September – once again on the proposal of Herbert Buchinger – not only will there be an internal review review review, but also a review with added external persons. The outcome of this review is also to be expected. One cannot now initiate an investigation if one does not yet have a final decision – and this is because this sale has not taken place at all. But I'll give you the right to: As it was until the 30th century. It certainly wasn't correct on September. It is precisely this occasion that gives me a reason to say that the Social Democrats and their clubman are perfectly right to have a discussion now – tomorrow the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – that minority rights are being re-established here and that the minority should have even more opportunities to investigate cases in which it believes it is essential to find something, although sometimes or in most cases nothing can be found at all. From today's point of view, both the one and the other request cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16643	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16664	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks I say quite self-critically that a policy of old style has rejected applications for the setting up of committee of inquiry – I say now: definitely; one could put in parentheses: unseen –. I note that it is very serious for us from the ÖVP not only to define a new style of policy, but also to live in the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Then start with it!]] But – and this is why I am particularly sorry – there are two requests today that are unfortunately not suitable for the proof of this. I will also explain why these two applications are not suitable for the proof that we are serious about a different procedure in the future. First point: AMS, request of our fairy tale chef. Equation: The soup, Mr Oellinger, which you are trying to cook here, is more than thin – to want to scandalize a sale of property here, which is not even finished! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Your assessment of the regularity of commissions that Mr Krüger had to correct already shows how little research is being done on how little this request is really based. It also criticises the charge of money, not the one from this sale, which did not take place, but generally the charge of liquid funds of the AMS. However, it is clear from studies that the AMS does not cause any damage to such products as is necessary. Finally, I wonder: Where, then, is there a political responsibility – and that is why it is in committee of inquiry – in this particular case, which there is no "case" at all? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Be honest and say you have extended the Coalition Pact and you should not agree! Be honest!]] Finally, in this case only remains that a frustrated AMS employee has written a report about a "case" – under quotation marks – that is far from being a case. Finally, the responsible Mr Böhm, who has already been quoted by name, brought the whole to court. He's shown the whole thing, and the courts are going to investigate. [[Abg. Gaugg: What did he show?]] I would like to be ready to talk about this case once again if, on the basis of this judicial persecution, something actually comes out. [[Abg. Gaugg: But this is new! What did the Lord Bohemia show?]] Second point: "Euroteam", free request, Gaugg: This case no longer needs an investigation by a committee of inquiry, because the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors has already found, Mr Gaugg, that there has been, I say, inefficient use of public funds – I am referring immediately to – that there is an unacceptable link between the Secretary-General, Chancellor's son and subsidy recipients. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about the consequence?]] Mrs Petrovic! Political responsibility has been clarified in the Subcommittee, but it has not led to any political consequences. I now ask Mr Klubobmann Kostelka as an applicant for the request discussed earlier: What is the point of any change in the part of the vote needed to make such a request or to decide on an investigation committee? What is the point of any change if there is no political responsibility thereafter? If we do not change this: our view of what is political responsibility and how it is to be borne will continue to give us the answers, Mr Kostelka, as he gave them to you at the last election.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16780	The next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16802	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has developed an interesting debate on the two requests made pursuant to § 33 of the Rules of Procedure for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. For us, Mr. Kopf, the first thing is interesting is that you have adopted a new style for the Austrian People's Party on the one hand, but on the other hand you have continued the old style at least twice today. For the first time, this happened at the Court of Auditors' meeting in the early days, when you did not allow the Federal Chancellor, together with Mr Bartenstein, to be uploaded to the Court of Auditors once again on the old scale, even though the opposition both wanted to have information for the corresponding chapters of the Court of Auditors' report. Therefore, the question arises as to how you will proceed if the Court of Auditors' reports, which are now being prepared in connection with the AMS, are presented here. Will you once again bear the political responsibility in the form of the fact that, if the opposition wishes to have the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister as a person of information, you will once again block with the Social Democrats – as in the early days – in the sense of the new style, which for us is the continuation of the old style, and then bring some head of section or head of the AMS or others from the subordinate hierarchy, because you are not prepared to live up to the political responsibility you have written in the report of the Subcommittee's Subcommittee at the end of the legislative period at least in parts? In any case, we liberals have clearly and clearly defined our position in the minority report and other consequences and other ideas. The fact that Mr Kostelka and his group have no interest at all in taking on political responsibility in this area to date, neither in the area of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs Hostasch nor in the area of Mr Bundeskanzler and his dark circle, which has taken place in connection with the "Euroteam", is obvious and clear. But one thing I say to you, Mr Kopf – you should remember – is that: ==References====External links== October has experienced a severe electoral downturn, but you have experienced an equally severe election defeat in the pack of this old team! I think if you continue in the old style, the 3rd will. In October, you were not taught, but only a new election date of 2000 or a little later. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If one were to make the difference at last that the introduction of an investigation committee is not a preliminary statement or an indictment, but rather the actual beginning of the brightening of political responsibility – as I would like to mention to colleagues Brix – and if it were, in a new style of this Parliament, to be called for the responsibility of the entire plenary session, where it is obvious, then perhaps this Parliament would be recognized in the new legislative period. You can see it today: The Greens and the Liberals would be willing to use investigation committees to investigate the AMS in both cases. However, the two government parties of the current transitional government are not willing neither at this time nor, I dare to say, to allow an investigation at a future time, because, contrary to their public promises, they will continue to continue to write what they have already done in the past: cover, wall off, see nothing, hear nothing, and allow no investigation committee! – Mr Kopf, this is not the new way! We liberals will vote in favour of both requests.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16865	The debate on the setting up of committees of inquiry has ended. We shall proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on the two requests. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the request by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades to set up an investigation committee. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the request for the setting up of an investigation committee give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Next, I shall vote on Mr Gaugg's request for the setting up of an investigation committee. Here again, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Gaugg's request for the setting up of an investigation committee for a sign. – The request does not have the necessary majority. He is therefore rejected. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16920	We shall vote in accordance with what has been announced after the submission of the relevant requests, on the request of Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 5/A (E) concerning the implementation of the requests for genetic engineering Volksgegens, for a period of time up to 24. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mrs Petrovic, the Committee on Equal Opportunities for Reporting on Amendment No 6/A (E) on the implementation of the women's volks request, for a period of 24 months. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Here, too, I may request a sign in case of approval. – The request does not have the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-12-15-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16968	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 47/A to 59/A have been tabled. Question No 158/J to 206/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will serve commercial communications, will be convened at 10:13 p.m. – that is immediately after the end of this meeting. This meeting is closed.
