ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e2705	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places, and I will open the 176. Meeting of the National Council. Members Hans Helmut Moser and Schaffenrath are reported to be prevented for today's session. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e2736	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e2938	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e2959	Mr President. I would suggest a brief Presidential to your panel, because I have received the notification that, contrary to a deal at the Presidential Conference, the debates and short debates were requested. We have extended the block speaking time by two hours, but with the agreement that no so-called special actions are taking place today. I feel lurched and therefore stimulate a presidential session.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e2984	I would ask that I interrupt the sitting briefly and ask the presidents of the club to me before making decisions or making announcements. The sitting was suspended for a short time. (The sitting was suspended at 9.06 a.m. and resumed at 9.21 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3011	I'll start the interrupted session again. It is possible that we will have votes, and it is also possible that we will have votes which require a two-thirds majority, and that is why I have turned on the bell again. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 5649/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3041	Before entering the agenda, I would like to have a brief debate on Question No 5649/AB on the question of Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades concerning the development of rail passenger transport by the Minister for Science. Since we have no urgent request today, this short debate will take place at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3066	I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Mr Kammerlander requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the application 989/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act for a nuclear-free Austria be subject to a period of time until 12. to sit on July. In this context, there is also the desire to hold a short debate on this request for deadlines. This brief debate will be held after completion of the debate on the reply to the question. The vote will take place immediately following the debate on the deadline request. I would also like to say that Mr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, asked the Committee on Science and Research to report on the government template concerning a federal law on the accreditation of educational institutions as private universities for a period of up to 13 years. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. A debate on this request was not requested. Perhaps I should add that the President-in-Office of the Council yesterday announced that this request would not be maintained if an appointment for a committee meeting was agreed. Finally, I would like to say that Mr Khol, Dr Kostelka, asked the Committee on Science and Research to report on the Government Template concerning a Federal Act amending the University Study Act, 1997 the Supplements, also a period of time until 13. to sit on July. The possibility of any withdrawal is given in this case in the same way as in the previous application. The applicants Dr. Khol, Dr. Kostelka themselves did not request a debate, but I have a request from five members of the Liberal Group, according to § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, a brief debate on this request for a time limit, Dr Kostelka, to carry out Dr. Khol. This short debate will be held if it continues to take place following the short debates previously announced. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3120	As far as the agenda itself is concerned, I would like to sum up points 1 to 4, 7 to 9, 10 to 14, 15 and 16, 17 to 26, 27 to 30, 31 and 32, as well as 34 and 35 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. The National Council has decided that way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3147	We shall now go into the agenda and come to the end of the debates. As far as the duration of the debates is concerned, there is still a proposal from the President-in-Office. – There are word messages for this. Please, Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3172	Mr President. We have now reached agreement between the coalition groups on the fact that we are going back to 9 "Vienna hours" in order to allow the session to be handled in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3196	Only so that we are business-orientated have clarity: If so, then there would be no common solution, but this would be a proposal to be approved by this House with two-thirds majority. Mrs Petrovic has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3220	I repeat with amazement that when it comes to the rights of the employees of this House and the rights of all Members of Parliament and their employees, who have, for example, child care obligations, it does not matter at all. However, if opposition rights are to be cut and restricted, then you will enforce with a majority of two-thirds. I think this is really bad and embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3251	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3272	Mr President. I urge you to stick to the original agreement, to give 10 "Vienna hours" speaking time for today's very comprehensive agenda. I think it should be the right of every Member to be able to speak in accordance with the subject. I would like to remind you that there has been an absolute agreement on this speaking time in the Presidency. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: And the agreement, no political group is taking action!]] Now that the argument that the Greens are supposed to have broken an agreement is not applicable. Although there was an agreement on a proposal that there are no special actions today, the Greens have expressly introduced a reservation of their club's approval in the presidential – and therefore you cannot break an agreement either. To use misunderstanding to cut the speaking time for the Members here, contrary to a unanimous agreement in the Presidency, I think that it is absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, once again my request to stay at the agreed speaking time of 10 "Vienna hours".
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3314	Mrs Heide Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3335	Mr President. The agreement on 10 "Vienna hours" was reached with a view to the fact that the discussion of the numerous items of the agenda requires such a time in order to be able to actually deal with it. And on this agenda nothing has changed. I therefore believe that the fact that the Greens have now introduced a special instrument, regardless of whether they could or could not be expected to do so due to the negotiations in the Presidency, cannot alter the fact that we seemed to be necessary for these agenda items for ten hours. Therefore, if the session lasts longer and – I have to say that – it may go into the night hours, so that those who have obligations to children or other persons must be longer here, this is precisely in the nature of the matter. My request is to stay for these ten hours, because nothing has changed on the agenda – and that was the basis for our agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3377	Ladies and gentlemen! There are no further statements of speech on business, nor have we decided on the matter of the Rules of Procedure itself. I will proceed in such a way that I will first vote on the request for 9 'Vienna hours' and, if it finds the not required two-thirds majority, then then vote on the request for 10 'Vienna hours'. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol's request to set a blockage time of 9 "Vienna hours" for a sign on this matter. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – This is decided by two-thirds majority. [[Simultaneously calling:counting]] – "count it!" is a legitimate desire. Although only one member of this House requires an enumeration, such a one has to take place. I ask two scribes to come to my support. - Please, another writer. Mrs. Apfelbeck, are you ready? - No, I don't. I ask Mrs Reitsamer to count the 'no' votes, and Mr Auer to count the 'yes' votes. And I would like to ask you very cordially not to make it difficult for the two colleagues. - Please. [[The authors Reitsamer and Auer make the votes.]] [[In the meantime, MEPs are entering the meeting room.]] [[Call to the liberals: Who will come in to the SPÖ?]] [[Abg. Koppler: It's sitting there! Take better care of a biterl!]] There is no provision for the Rules of Procedure to prevent a Member from entering the Chamber. We have clearly made this clear in the President-in-Office's sitting. [[Abg. Here's who's coming again! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What about counting when someone comes and goes all the time?]] [[Abg. Koppler: You have such an unsympathetic voice, Schweitzer!]] [[Abg. Gaál: Mr Gaugg is coming too!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Maybe a few more, Mr President! Wait S’ another bite!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the liberals: Again!]] [[Call the ÖVP: It's already counted!]] [[Further lively calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can take a seat, the voting process is over. I only have to calculate whether this is a two-thirds majority. The application did not receive the required two-thirds majority and is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the liberals and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Koppler: There is no such thing!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I shall now vote on the speaking time of 10 hours, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a speaking time of 10 hours to rise from the seats. This proposal is decided by a majority of two-thirds. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Such a fool!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it is democratic in a parliament when a democratic vote has taken place, whatever its outcome – and it has been carried out fairly – then this is not a cause for mockery and ridicule. I am proud of a Parliament that does not vote properly, even if the opposition does not make it easy for the chairman or colleagues who have to count the votes. We have voted fairly, and that is true. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] 150 minutes for the SPÖ, 140 minutes for the ÖVP, 130 minutes for the liberals and 90 minutes for the Greens and for the Liberal Forum. 1. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1648 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Production, Marketing and Use of Feed, Premixtures and Additives (FMG 1999 - FMG 1999) (1941 of Supplements) 2. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1750 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Protection of Plants from Diseases and Pests (1942 of Supplements) 3. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1094/A by Mr Rudolf Schwarzböck, Mr Heinz Gradwohl and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Law amending the Wine Law 1985 and the AMA Act 1992 (1943 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report and request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry concerning a Federal Act amending the 1992 AMA Act (1944 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3641	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Reporting is not required. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Federal Minister, let me give you the floor and ask you for your report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3668	Mr President. High house! I would like to use this debate to inform the House, at its request, of the current state of the art of feeding. Austrian agriculture stands for high quality and environmental standards. In recent years, we have developed a good reputation that we must defend. The trust that European, but especially Austrian consumers place in domestic food, is a value that we must never put at risk. I assume that there is agreement on this in the House. High quality requires appropriate legal framework conditions. This includes, in addition to comprehensive measures for the ecologicalisation and quality orientation of agriculture – here Austria is a pioneer in Europe, as confirmed by the recent Council of Agriculture Ministers of Commissioner Fischler – also a second: It's a good control system. Here, too, Austria is one of the leading countries in Europe. For many years, the Austrian Federal Government has carried out strict controls throughout the food chain from feed to food. In the area of competence of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, for example, over 1,000 feed establishments have been monitored and over 2,500 samples have been collected and analysed in recent years alone. In comparison, about 13,000 to 15,000 samples are drawn each year in Germany, which is also known for strict controls in Europe. In relation to the size of the country, we therefore have a high level of control density. We have maintained this process in the past, even against critical votes. In this context, it should also be noted that Austria has already carried out dioxin studies in the past, as well as analyses of other environmental toxins, such as heavy metals. [[Unrest in the hall.]] High house! On the current situation, I can say that, after Austria first received from the European Commission on the problems...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3706	One second, Minister. – Ladies and gentlemen! I can recall that we were asked to inform the two members of the government of the urgent desire of the House to report on the issue of dioxin. If such a desire is expressed to and fulfilled by members of the government, it is at least a command of courtesy to be interested in the statements, for this report has been demanded of you. I would ask you to take this into account. Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3730	Thank you, Mr President. I still don't start from the front. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] On the current situation, I can say that, after Austria was first informed by the European Commission about the problems in Belgium, the Ministry of Agriculture immediately started all the necessary measures in its competence. ==References== In June, the control authorities were instructed to carry out dioxin studies to the necessary extent in poultry feed, in particular in the case of product groups which have led to problems in Belgium. ==References== The studies were extended to cover all feed. By Regulation I have prohibited the movement into the Federal territory, the placing on the market and the feeding of the incriminated products intended for animal feeding originating in or originating in Belgium. In any case, all the food and feed in question originating in Belgium were withdrawn from the market, with research carried out on feed, in particular with a high fat content. This has resulted in farmers being blocked and being a burden which is not to be underestimated. I would like to give you more information. ==References====External links== In June 1999, before the elections to the European Parliament, it was made known to the public on the same day. I say this because yesterday the accusation was raised that it had only been done after the elections to the European Parliament. That's not true. In addition, various feedings of dioxin were routinely administered. The results have shown that the dioxin levels are generally in the area of the usual background concentration, only in some exceptional cases increased concentrations have been found. Before I describe these cases in detail, it must be prescribing that the levels found in these samples, translated into the animal product, are at least significantly lower than those of the WHO's recommendations, from which a health risk can be accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Federal Chancellery agree that there is no health risk. I would like to make that clear. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, there is no comparison with the situation in Belgium in any way. This is all the more true than the current problem is limited to two companies. All known feed producers in Austria have now been examined and, with the exception of two companies, no excessive dioxin levels have been established. In one of the two companies, three products are blocked, and the other. [[Abg. Wabl: What does "excess" mean?]] On the events of the last days, I am allowed to report that the Ministry of Agriculture took place on 14 November. ==References====External links==* Official website It was arranged in June. These resulted in increased dioxin values compared to the other sample results in five products, with four of which being attributed to a company. On the same evening, the BKA was concerned with the question of the procedure of excessive dioxin values. ==References== In June, the Ministry of Agriculture was informed that the competent veterinary authority in Upper Austria had blocked a holding with a value of 2.25 picograms in feed. The Ministry of Agriculture ordered that the company no longer deliver products until the facts were clarified. In addition, the seizure was ordered for the time being of those products where the above levels of dioxin were established. After further discussions with the BKA, this noted that, in the case of the limit values found, the existence of a quality impairment within the meaning of § 3 para. 2 feed law, but not health risk. Following this finding by the BKA and after the company made changes in the production plant, further seizures were excluded and thus the general stopover was removed. The confiscation arrangement was restricted on the basis of the BKA's notifications to those four samples where dioxin values were established above the relevant comparative values. ==References====External links== The Ministry of Agriculture has been informed on June with the BKA that the limit for seizures should be set to 2 picograms. This value has been set by BKA toxicologists based on the current state of knowledge. In addition, the national leaders were instructed to withdraw the feed concerned by the seizure from the market. This directive is currently being implemented. As this chronology shows, the Austrian Federal Government has taken all the necessary steps in the interests of consumers, farmers and the food industry to ensure a comprehensive and rapid clarification of the facts, but also to achieve the exactest possible limit of the problem. Both departments are working in close coordination on this issue and will continue to take all necessary steps to ensure a rapid clarification of all open questions in the interest of Austria, but also in the interest of our good reputation abroad. On the basis of the measures put in place, the BMLF and the BKA took place on 16 June. A joint declaration was made available to the economy in June 1999. The BMLF and the BKA reached the following conclusions: "As a result of the measures taken and the results so far available, it should be assumed that Austrian products do not have excessive dioxin contaminations." Ladies and gentlemen! The events of recent weeks have demonstrated the need for strict rules on the European internal market, accompanied by sharp controls. The Ministry of Agriculture therefore supports all efforts at European level to ensure the highest quality and safety of feed. In my view, the initiative of Commissioner Fischler to discuss the establishment of an independent food agency in the European Union is particularly welcome. Austria will bring its good experiences into this discussion and actively participate. However, the events of recent weeks also show that the Austrian path of environmentally sound agriculture is the only right way for farmers and consumers. Austria will stick to this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3784	Thank you, Minister of State. I now give the floor to Mrs Federal Minister Barbara Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3808	Mr President. High house! I would also like to stress, first of all, that Austrian food has an excellent reputation in Germany and abroad, and we must make every effort not to lose this good reputation. In the context of accession to the European Union, Austria has given great importance to maintaining our food code and the high quality of our food. Austria also has one of the best food control systems in Europe. These strict controls are also an important part of the quality assurance for our food. Now on the concrete measures taken. ==References== In May 1999, the Belgian authorities informed the European Commission of a case of severe contamination of compound feedingstuffs with dioxins. On the evening of the 28th. In May, the Member States and thus Austria were informed of this incident. The dioxin-loaded Belgian feed was since the 15th century. In January of this year, a significant number of domestic poultry holdings were delivered to Belgium. As a result, I immediately instructed the heads of state to check and to pick up samples of meat from chickens and eggs from Belgium and to seize any existing remains of goods. I have also immediately informed the economy of these measures which I have arranged. ==References====External links== A ban on imports of poultry and poultry products from Belgium into Austria was adopted in June 1999. The following day the European Commission’s decision was taken. I emphasize: We were even a day faster than the Commission. This decision prohibits Belgium, poultry meat and products derived from it, eggs and egg products and products which exceed two percent Eggs and egg products must be placed on the market. Only products from non-criminal Belgian establishments and those where analyses confirm safety were excluded from this Commission decision. Immediately thereafter, it began to appear that Belgian cattle and pig feed were also affected by dioxin contamination. ==References====External links== In June, I gave the order to prohibit imports of pigmeat and beef and beef products and products produced therefrom, as well as milk and milk products from Belgium. ==References====External links== In June, a European Commission decision was also taken. I have also given the written instruction to the national leaders to observe and to test and seize possibly affected beef and veal products, as well as milk and milk products from Belgium when they are found. These measures, which I have ordered, have, in turn, immediately been notified to the economy. ==References== In June, the measures to be taken were confirmed and clarified by the Standing Veterinary Committee of the European Commission. On the same day, I also informed the Heads of State and instructed them to take samples of all Belgian food products affected by the decisions of the European Commission and to seize any waste of goods. This arrangement was therefore for food products that came after the 15th century. In January 1999, there were no certificates of analysis and no official confirmation of safety. ==References== In June, a written instruction was issued to the national leaders to block the animals concerned and to inform the feed supervisory bodies of them in the event of the identification of feed from Belgium. The animals shall be kept in evidence until the Belgian veterinary authorities confirm the safety of the feed or until there is evidence of the results of the investigation. Allowance for slaughter must be granted only after determination of safety. ==References====External links== In some feed of Austrian provenance, I also found slightly increased dioxin values, which were a hundred times lower than the Belgian values, but above the so-called acceptable normal values, I have instructed the national leaders to take the animals in evidence if such over-contaminated with dioxin in the course of controls by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's feed supervision. For the animals intended for slaughter, the slaughter permit shall be refused until the safety of the feed is confirmed by the competent feed inspectorate or until the results of the test after slaughter show that the meat is sufficient. These precautions relate specifically only to affected animals, i.e. to the feed of contaminated batches. The aim is to ensure, according to current knowledge, that the best possible safety is achieved, but at the same time to avoid any unnecessary economic damage to those affected by excessive measures. For the theoretical scientific evaluation of the levels of dioxin found in feed and food, I used a working group of highly qualified specialists in cooperation with Federal Minister Molterer. Clearness on the effects of dioxin-loaded feed on the animal end product is intended to bring sample slaughters and analyses that I have already caused. My aim was in dioxin problems and it is to ensure safety for all consumers and, on the other hand, to set and focus on the necessary measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is clear that a possible burden on people with the extremely high dioxin levels found in Belgium must be avoided in all cases. That is why, in full compliance with the measures adopted by the European Commission, I have ordered the immediate provisional confiscation of all suspected Belgian food until the results of the analysis have been found. Due to the measures I have arranged, numerous food products of Belgian origin have been safeguarded and tested in recent weeks. In order to be able to carry out the dioxin analyses quickly, it was agreed with the Seibersdorf Research Centre that the research centre will now and also in the future carry out dioxin analyses for my department. In addition, samples were sent to another domestic as well as to a foreign institute for analysis. The first results of these food analyses are expected next week. As far as dioxin levels in Austrian feed are concerned, it can be assumed that, in the event of temporary consumption of food produced from such feed, there is no risk of health, but in my opinion, as well as in the opinion of experts for precautionary reasons, a burden on the food with dioxin levels over normal values must be avoided. It is therefore necessary and necessary to take effective measures here too. Although there is no health damage, it is not easy to go to the agenda. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the next few weeks, the results of the analyses of food and sample slaughters will now bring clarity to the actual level of the load. The expert group, which I and Federal Minister Molterer have used, will assess these results and, after dioxin limit values are currently not available worldwide, also determine which indicative or limit values need to be applied in order to guarantee all safety for consumers. On the basis of these findings, I will establish the further specific measures necessary to ensure that food of animal origin with increased dioxin exposure does not enter the sales shelves in the future. The guarantee of a high level of food safety is essential to all of our well-being, even if the measures taken and to be taken involve difficulties and burdens on a case-by-case basis. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It will also be of great relevance to Austria to take concrete action by all the other Member States of the European Union in this context. We will attach great importance to applying the same consistent and transparent procedure in the European and international markets as in Austria. On the one hand, in order to give all the safety to consumers of foreign products, and on the other hand, so that Austrian export goods do not create any disadvantages, the Austrian export industry can benefit from our consistent measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3919	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, and again the Federal Minister. Next word: Mrs Aumayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e3944	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Thus, it looks like EU agricultural policy: crazy cattle, gone mad because they were fed with mistreated animal meal, pigs that suffer from plague are being bred and killed to hundreds of thousands to be processed and fed as animal meal again, and now: Dioxin in poultry, meat and eggs. These are the blessings of the free movement of goods, that we also have this dioxin food in Austria. That's how he looks, the "Feinkosladen Österreich". And how does the crisis management look, Mrs. Minister and Mr. Minister? No consumer in Austria knows the name of those products that are contaminated with dioxin. You protect the names of the companies, you protect the companies, and all this is at the expense of the health of consumers and especially of our children. There is no dioxin analysis in the food sector, Mrs. Minister, because the equipment is missing and the laboratories are over 100 years old. You, Mrs Minister and Mr Minister, have left 30 million Schilling for an advertising campaign, but no schilling for proper dioxin analyses. However, I am not surprised by this crisis management, but it is common practice in Austria that it is done in this way. I remember the BSE crisis. What did Commissioner Fischler do first? He put himself in front of the camera and said his favorite food was English beef. What did Mr Molterer do when it came to the abolition of the beef embargo? He abstained, Mr Minister for Agriculture. There was no "Austrian vote" when it came to protecting against these beef imports. Now, Minister of State, keep silent and for yourself the same! They are silent as Mrs Prammer on animal transport! Over thousands of kilometres of animals are being carnaged, millions of times of suffering – and that is because the animals in the European Union are a thing, a commodity. Minister for Agriculture! They lower the prices that farmers can achieve. Farmers need to calculate harder and harder in order to get some way across the rounds. No farmer knows what is actually inside these feeds. There are different production conditions for our farmers and different ecological conditions. But, Minister for Agriculture and Mrs Prammer, there are Belgian pigs who are imported to Austria every day, the "A" stamp! These Belgian and Dutch pigs become Austrian with the slaughter! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's bad, Mrs. Minister!]] And, Mrs. Minister, how can you, please... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny talks to Federal Minister Mag, who is sitting on the government bank. Molterer.]] Mr Novotny, please be so kind. – Yes, thank you many times. Mrs Prammer! They have today talked about the high quality of Austrian food. Mrs. Minister! Where is the high quality of Austrian food when foreign pigs become Austrian with slaughter? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How can you even investigate that? – You can’t even examine them, you can’t even test them. There are studies of consumer associations that testify that in 70 percent of the meat of Belgian and Dutch pigs residues of sedatives have been found and in 10 percent residues of banned hormones that the quality is 80 percent less. Where is this meat going, Mrs. Federal Minister? – As Austrian quality over the shop table! And this is the scandal, Mrs. Minister, and you are silent about it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And for this reason bring... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you say, Mrs. Minister? They're shaking their heads all the time!]] Yeah, you're gonna shake your head all the time. You cannot say at all that Belgian products have been examined for dioxin residues, because this Belgian pigmeat goes over the shop table as Austrian quality! This is fraud against the consumer, and this is fraud against the farmer, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, for the sixth time, we have already tabled the proposal: Get away with the "A" stamp for foreign products! Where "A" insists, "A" must be inside, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] If you take your office seriously, you must ensure that your group agrees. Everything else is hypocrisy to the square!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4041	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4065	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian consumers make absolutely the highest demands in the global food comparison. There is no country in the world where consumer awareness of the food industry and the way in which agriculture is operated is as demanding and as pronounced as in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrians can continue to have confidence in the Austrian farmers, in the Austrian food industry, in the administration of the federal government and in the countries, in view of what was known to us with this dioxin scandal in Belgium. Three countries of the European Union are investigating animal feed in Belgium as a result of the scandalous events: Belgium – no, you could say – France and Austria. And the results of these comprehensive studies show how demanding we are responding to this high awareness of consumers. I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that he has basically done everything he can to present facts that serve to preserve this confidence. And it's not from the table to bring: There were some feed batches where there was contamination with dioxin, ladies and gentlemen, but in such small quantities that there would not even be any comment in much of the world. And all the arrangements have been made, including those - I say here as a farmer's representative - that the farmers concerned are not exactly pleased with. But it is also better for us to do everything we can to give this sensitive consumer community all guarantees and to assure it that everything will be done in its sense, until the consequence that, in some cases, even the claim for compensation must be carried out legally. But the absolutely highest good that we have is this confidence and this high awareness in the small-structured agricultural, ecologically-efficient agriculture. The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry has therefore also acted in this area in the interest of farmers in the medium and long term, even in the interest of those farmers who now have to live in their farms with sales barriers, without in any way having anything to do with them, because it is not even clear whether the feed they have used in accordance with the legal standards of the internal market and the Austrian legal order are at all contaminated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not have the time to deal with the comments made by Mr Aumayr, but, Mrs Aumayr, if you are constantly a viewing stamp which marks the Austrian animal view and otherwise represent nothing but the identification of origin, then you will contribute to the fact that, in Austria, Belgian pigs may be declared as Austrian manipulative. [[Abg. Wenitsch: The consumer sees it that way!]] And stop talking about what you are criticizing for scandalous transactions in the food industry outside of Austria in the internal market, as if there were no better content for speeches than to deal with such things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am one of the four Members of this House who are practicing winemaking. You must understand, therefore, if I also deal with the wine law in these six minutes available to me. For we have experienced that the Austrians Consider wine at least as sensitive as feed and the resulting animal products milk, meat and eggs. We have adopted an initiative proposal in intensive negotiations and in great cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the Committee on Agriculture, which brings us significant progress in the field of wine-growing and wine-growing. In relation to the market, we are reacting to the new trade flows with the fact that Austrian quality wines must have the corresponding batch sizes both nationally and internationally in order to be presented in concentrated food trade. And with this wine law, we allow quality wine from two or more wine-growing areas to be placed on the market in the large wine-growing states of Lower Austria and Burgenland, in order to have the corresponding quantities, without evading the regional name where it is still wanted. We have taken into account the currents of the market by allowing the fruit juice industry and the fruit-processing industry to produce re-dilute must, according to the internationally usual standard, from apple juice or pear juice concentrate, and, of course, protect the traditional farming methods of fruit must production according to the old fermentation methods. We can eliminate distortions of competition by removing the marketing contribution for tank wine exports as much as for bottled wine exports, because there have been unfair conditions of competition in the export market. Measures such as de-bureaucratisation, withdrawal of the quantity reporting from 30. April and the possibility that winery inspectors will not have to punish or display wine supervision in the case of actual bags, errors or similar, but will help to establish a trust relationship between the administration, executive and the food industry concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of the high standards of the Austrian food industry and in the interests of Austrian consumers and European consumers of the Belgian Government, I should like to say, as a practicing farmer, that I wish to see success from these incidents in some time, in view of the high standards of the Austrian food industry and in the interests of Austrian consumers and of the European consumers of the Belgian Government, as was possible in the past ten years.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4125	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4146	Visoki Dom! Gospod predsednik! Gospa administrativea! Gospod Minister! Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe, of course, that the dioxin scandal in Belgium is already well suited for demagogic excursions, but it is more important to keep an eye on consumers. It's about healthy food for a good consumer. This is the subject, ladies and gentlemen. We should not make appropriate proposals here, but it is important whether we in the country – but not just in our own country – are able to produce, identify, offer and give consumers a free choice across Europe. That is the question. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, therefore, I say quite clearly, as a representative of an opposition party, that food quality has increased enormously in recent years. That is, the quality of food has not deteriorated, despite all scandals, but it has improved. It is only because of this high-quality food produced today that it is possible that we also have such a high standard of health. We have better production, better controlled production, more flawless production, we have higher standards. I'm just referring to one example: Milk and germs. We have a holistic thinking, that is, it's not only about producing, selling and saying a food, everything else doesn't interest me, but there's a connection. People start to think about buying food, and therefore also the very understandable nervous reactions of consumers who ask themselves: What do you want me to do? What do you want me to eat? Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks be to God, things like relationships between the diet of the animal, between animal and human being and the entire cycle are already general knowledge and are also included in the general behavior. Consumer protection, too, has improved, i.e. controls are more effective, so more effective. There is also effective control of production. We also have an animal welfare that has become a matter of course. Although there are still problems in areas where there is a kind of humanization of the animal, where you think it has to look in the stable as well as in the living room. Of course, there are still deviations, but in principle we all confess to a animal-friendly and healthy attitude of animals. And what is very important and we are particularly pleased is: We have a powerful citizen, we have a citizen who knows what he wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] We have a citizen who is powerful, a powerful consumer. This is, of course, important, because this is the most important partner in this sector of the economy. I'd say: The way is right, Mr Wabl, you can take a little bit of the liberal path, the way is right, but perhaps some goals have not yet been achieved. Of course I would also like to point out some shortcomings. We still have – and this is what we see today – to fight with old loads. I only refer to a product, namely DDT, with which my parents and grandparents so to speak, still caused "wounds". For example, it has been applied against ants, it has been said that it works, it kills everyone who fits. In the meantime, we know that although this product has been banned for 20 years, for example, it still exists in Alpine milk. – That means we need to realize how long-term the consequences can be if we do not behave properly. Since 1990, between 1990 and 1998 – this is also to be noted – the dioxin value in the blood has halved. This, too, is certainly a step forward in the sense that in the case of combustion and chemical processes more careful attention is paid to which substances are produced. I remember that in my youth all that was not needed was burned, whatever it might have burned and whatever came back to earth, so to speak. Today – that is very important – one pays attention to these things, and it is a reduction in emissions. If we talk about dioxin today, we also need to talk about the causes. We are still dealing with the issue of combustion processes which are not directly related to agriculture. In this sense, I also believe that the overall view is very important. Mr. Minister! In the context of the feed legislation, we had a discussion in the committee – in this respect I am also presenting a slightly amended proposal today – because it is still a fact that relatively unthinking antibiotics are applied. This is particularly true in the matter of adaptation, and not necessarily in relation to health or as a health need, but simply in order to build up meat on the animal. Ladies and gentlemen! These are certainly things that we cannot accept. I also mentioned this in committee. Everyone who deals with health issues knows how threatening the question of resistance is. There are always problems – and this will be confirmed by doctors, including the doctors in this House – and huge problems on the occasion of operations where resistance, allergies and so on are detected. So no simple questions, Minister! It would be good if you would be initiative. We have to find out – I am saying this in order not to remain inaccurate – that even in the so-called organic products there are still dioxins, though in small quantities, there are substances that we do not wish for in organic products, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's a premise!]] So the process is a bit lengthy, it is by no means such that something can be changed with a simple measure. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is, of course, courageous to say that there is no such thing, but that is due only to a lack of expertise, Mr Zweytick. You still need to read some books besides those you may have read as a second book. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Call a bioproduct containing dioxin!]] In response to the consumer, a boom on organic products is to be found. There is an increasing trend. For example, we know that there are about 2.2 million hectares in EU-Europe today, and the trend is rising. It is assumed that the size of these bio-plants will increase to about 15 percent by 2010. [[Call the ÖVP: As long as you say that dioxin is in it, certainly not!]] I think it is very good to assume that the consumer will continue to behave reasonablely. That is to say, the policy here is actually required to create the basis and guarantee, in the form of control, the consumer's natural need for healthy food. At present, the share of organic products in food trade is still relatively low – relatively, I say – and it is 3 per cent, but the trend is also rising. Mr Minister and also Mrs Minister! That would be measures that you should put in place, namely that we could really guarantee that organic products not only bear the label "bio" but also "bio". [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] A few more thoughts on the problem of spraying: In this context, far too little thought is being given to what follow-up costs can be incurred. It's quick to say: We produce products that are flawless and easy to sell and also look beautiful; they laugh at the consumer, as it were. But this is often only achieved by the use of chemicals, and we must hold on to this, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, as is often the case, the Devil Dioxin also has something good, namely that we now have a sensitive and very detailed discussion about health and food. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of consumers to producers, it has developed a sensitivity that simply can no longer be sold. We also have a very good product example for which we believed years ago, it also went in the sloppy Austrian way. That was the case with wine. We thought we were just stretching it, making a little bit more of it, it's going to fit somehow. But today – after the scandal at that time – we have a good, healthy Austrian wine, with controlled origin and quality that sells well. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a small problem! There are 500 suspect products to be controlled in connection with the dioxin scandal. So this is not a small thing! Minister! I would now like to make two requests for reading in connection with the use of antibiotics and also in connection with the necessary control in the national and international fields, especially in the EU. [[Quoted print version removed]] A very courageous advance – I am aware of that – but at the same time it is a very important step in the direction of using antibiotics as a medicine for sick people and of course animals. They should not simply be mixed with feed in general. A very courageous proposal! In this context, Mr Minister, because the issues of health and nutrition are being dealt with over and over again, we ask – and this request is addressed to the Minister and the Minister – the National Council until 31. A report on food quality was presented in December 1999. [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! Mrs. Minister! I am very conscious of this proposal. I leave you both absolutely free to choose from a wide range of control options. This includes, for example, opening up to the consumer the possibility to examine the individual product and to buy quite consciously, because it has a precise label. That would be a very important measure! Secondly, I am absolutely in favour of European control, complementary to national control. In the current case in Belgium it was clear that early involvement of the European Commission would probably have led to a faster response. We have to assume – and this is the problem with the matter – that: It's a small mistake in one operation! And this error multiplies and spreads across Europe, mediated by other companies using or processing the products in question. We have a whole new situation! It is no longer the case of a village, such as red run with pigs in the village X with the farmer Y, but it is immediately a European problem in a kind of chain reaction. Belgian incidents are no longer only relevant to Belgium – Belgium is in Austria and across Europe! Minister! It is absolutely your task – and we are currently in the midst of the re-organisation of labelling within the EU – to insist on such a regulation that allows consumers to know exactly what they are buying, where it is and what quality it has. There must be no slutting! Minister! I would like to refer once again to Article 30 or 36 in the old version: You have the opportunity, Mrs Minister, also you have the opportunity to put in place special Austrian measures in the field of health, to put in place reservations and precautions, so to react in good time. It is not true that this was against EU law, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to conclude with a very simple sentence: It is not appropriate to operate demagogy even in the field of health. It's too serious a subject. I have the feeling that the Federal Government has failed a lot here – I have already shown it in committee – but it is of course also the case of the House to create the necessary legal conditions. [[Abg. Wabl: So it wasn't easy, the sentence!]] We will not agree to the feed law because it contains some things that do not fit us in this form. It is, as it were, an overstretched feed law. But I think we should work more precisely here. This concerns health and, above all, the creation of sustainable conditions for a healthy and happy life. The Minister for Agriculture and, of course, the Minister for Health is responsible for ensuring this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4295	Both the motion for a resolution and the amendment tabled by Mr Smolle are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to the honourable Member. Otmar Brix with a voluntary time limit of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4320	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is only by chance that we will discuss the feed law shortly after the coming up of the dioxin scandal in Belgium. One could not foresee such a meeting. I am very glad that we are discussing this today, and the Austrians can convince themselves, because of the statements made by the Federal Minister and the Federal Minister, how seriously these issues are dealt with in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would, however, like to warn against this – because I still remember very well – that, if there is really a mistake in a farm in agriculture – wherever – so that it is handled as at the time at the wine scandal. At that time, a few companies had come to be truly scandalous acts, but this led to the complete Austrian wine industry and all Austrian wine farmers, who were decent and honest people, being discredited. And now I have the feeling that this is what is being tried by the opposition again today. That is the case, and it is important to point out that it is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'll add: As a consumer and as a citizen of this country, I am also pleased and proud that a year ago, when only the suspicion of the Austrian meat industry appeared, Mrs Prammer immediately responded and took action. Although not all of them liked: It was important, and we have also been able to strengthen confidence in Austrian farmers through these measures. [[Abg. Wabl: That's right!]] – We see how important it is to carry out controls. I noticed how cheap and easy the opposition attacks started. Mr Smolle's speech is unfrozen, which he cannot prove. He speaks of organic products in which dioxin is to be contained. Mr Smolle! Come out, name a name of a organic product in which it is contained! Don't mislead people by talking about 500 products at risk of dioxin. – Do you know that there are actually millions of products that are also checked and controlled? You speak of 500 here – you only call this a number without mentioning the other. It cannot be in the interest of the opposition itself to make a policy that, in reality, endangers Austrian farmers, the Austrian economy, but also Austrian consumers. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is an enormous accusation!]] I bet all that most of the Austrian farmers, probably 99.9%, do decent and honest work. That's what I'm standing for and that's what I'm getting! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me put a final sentence within my short speaking time: The feed law will continue to include: Security in Austrian agriculture is ensured so that Austrian consumers receive a decent, honest, healthy Austrian product.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4381	Mr Wabl is now speaking. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit. After 20 minutes, I finally finish. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4402	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger, do you know the Chamber of State for Agriculture and Forestry Styria? - I think it's a term for you. A letter from the 1st century. In August 1996, the Austrian pastry oil for the Dutch feed industry was added to the content. The Federal Chamber of Agriculture and Forestry of Styria was reported to export waste oil declared as hazardous waste in Austria as a raw material for feed production to Holland. [[Abg. Aumayr: meal!]] With this feed produced in this way only pigs in Holland are to be fed – these are the pigs that are then brought to Austria and slaughtered here, then "A" is on it again – which, as import goods, also come to Austria. In this letter it says: We ask you, Mr Ambassador, to inform you of the extent to which this matter exists. In fact, should this type of feed production exist in your country, we would be encouraged to explain to our consumers the fact that, in Austria, the production of feed from old food oils and fats is prohibited under the Austrian feed law. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! It was at the heart of the discussion on the feed law in the Committee, as already in the context of the Plant Protection Act, that in Austria it was thought that the quality of feed should be 1a for domestic consumers and then everything would be best. However, if you bring it abroad, you don't take it so precisely anymore. It is then that the laws that are valid abroad are applied to the maximum, and that is not possible to influence them. That is to say, a product such as pastry oil is considered to be highly problematic and treated very carefully, but a feed manufacturer can, of course, bring this additive to another country and feed. If this is forbidden in Holland, then a country will be found in Eastern Europe. Of course, there will be a country there, a farm that says: Yes, we need cheap feed so we can export to the EU again! And then these products land again with the consumers in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly the cycle we've been talking about here for years, but you obviously want to ignore. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] Federal Minister! Mrs. Minister! I am also saying here as a member of the opposition, that I have the impression that you are very much trying to advance quality assurance in Austria and ensure it. But if you do not notice that we have such a networked industrialized agricultural system since accession to the EU, and also a food production system in which you can no longer protect yourself in this form, then you will take the wrong measures and, despite all of your control systems, will always be lagging behind. Let's take the example of dioxin! They had to answer correctly, because it is also true, the question of the dioxin limit values: There's no one. Every physician and every scientist knows that dioxin can become a health problem even if it is proven, because we do not know at which concentrations dioxin is absorbed by living organisms. Therefore, you have to carry out continuous controls and follow each time exactly which stations the individual product, the individual feed, has taken individual additive. But how do you want to achieve this in such a networked economy, as it already exists in Europe and worldwide on a liberalised market? It is not true that the concerns and calls of the Greens and other groups in connection with the liberalisation of the world economic market are there because we had something against foreign goods. God forbid! We are of course in favour of trading with the whole world, but it must be clear that, if certain freedoms are to be established, harmonisation must also take place in the control system. This is essential for high product quality in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! In Europe, however, in some EU Member States there are not so high standards of control, nor so high standards in the field of the production of feed and not so high standards in agriculture. There is not as high a quality of agricultural production as in Austria. We are rightly proud of this high quality in Austria and also of the fact that we have such a high proportion of organic farming. It is precisely for this reason that we must insist that there is harmonisation, otherwise we are constantly running after and are constantly confronted with such problems. Ladies and gentlemen! There is the SEM company in Mureck in the South Styria. Their boss, in a conversation with the Chamber of Agriculture, held with politicians in 1995, tried to produce a product from the old food oil, fuel for tractors and other machinery. However, the development in the feed market, namely that this waste oil is most economically exported to other countries and can be added to feed, has deprived this product of that company. That is why SEEC and others have already demanded the introduction of an immediate ban on this practice. What happened in this sector, Mr. Minister? – You answered me in the Committee on Agriculture: Mr Wabl, we can only be responsible for what is used in Austria in feed in agricultural production. When something is exported, other provisions apply. – I tell you the following: We get back with the bananas and with all the products we see on the markets, all that we commit in Austria in sins. Every production error, any export error, any recklessness, by the products that cannot be sold in Austria, land abroad, return on detours. And that's the problem! Mr Smolle! I supported your request for ban on additives, my name is on the request. I'm just telling you the following: The fact that, if an animal is ill, it is natural to use antibiotics, I think it is a problem. I am of course in favour of the use, of course, in animal husbandry, in animals such as dogs, cats and horses, which we treat more or less than friends who are loved, of course, of the means we use in humans. You can also exaggerate by performing costly operations, which at the same time presuppose other people. But you must note that the same principle cannot apply in food production. In fact, if thousands of pigs are kept in mass animal farming, and an animal is ill, then, in order not to suffer great economic damage, one must go in with the full antibiotic keule. However, if one conducts an agriculture as we have it in Austria in essence, small-scale, family farms, manageable – essentially, I say – then one can react directly, adapt, together with the veterinarian, one can separate an animal. This cannot be done in mass animal husbandry, which is essentially dominated in many countries in Europe and all over the world. In this respect, I think it is wrong to get in there with antibiotics in the case of disease, because these funds end up in the food chain again. I say again: There is a difference in the use of antibiotics between production in agriculture and in animals we keep in housing that live together with people who have become more or less our friends. But with those animals standing on the meadows standing in the stables, I would set different standards. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have tabled several motions for resolutions. One of these I would like to present to you. I think he got away with me. [[The speaker is looking for the request in his documents.]] No, there he is. I've been afraid Mr. Smolle took him away again. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Smolle and Mr Mag. Chief.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! On the first point of the proposal concerning the strengthening of organic farming and animal husbandry, I would like to say the following: This can only work if we consistently continue this path of promotion. If socially desirable behaviour is not available to the extent that we wish it to be, then the taxpayer must, then policy must create conditions here and by means of promotion, improve this state. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: How Austria does!]] – As Austria does in part. But that also means – and this is exactly the problem we have in Austria –: We have an incredible development towards quality standards. Mr Schwarzböck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. With regard to wine – yesterday, I think, such a shipment – we have an incredibly excellent development towards quality production. There are top products on the one hand, for which the wine growers can demand between 100 and 300 S and more per bottle, there is exciting sales. On the other hand, however, there is a tragic situation that winegrowers can sit on their products, on their wine at prices of 4 S and 5 S per bottle, and can't store them. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Not because the quality is bad!]] Here there is an incredible development of apartheid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] It not only has to do with the fact that they are doing bad marketing – not only but also; you are right – but there is exactly this disparate development in agriculture as a whole. On the one hand, there are people who deserve enough, as do all of us here in the house, who can afford a segment of the best quality food, and on the other hand, mass goods are offered that need to buy those people who can't afford anything else. And in this regard, I say to you: We must start in social policy and not also promote those productions that continue to intensify, continue to rely on mass production and continue to act with careless use of medicines and other additives. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Agriculture! Mrs. Minister! They will find allies in the Green Group when it comes to developing stricter standards when it comes to providing support for organic farming. There you will have in us allies, but you will have massive opponents if you believe you can give in to the lobbyists on the international industrialized agricultural markets and food markets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4538	The motion for a resolution which Mr Wabl has just put forward on the occasion of the dioxin scandal is sufficiently supported and is included in the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Schwarzenberger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4562	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria's agriculture itself has the greatest interest in our products being free of harmful residues. That is why we in Austria are also committed to these strict controls. It has been said here that a lot of food has been removed from the shelves. This was a purely precautionary measure for the time being. The investigation of all these products has not yet produced a result. These are precautions because these products have been imported from Belgium or contain components manufactured in Belgium. But that does not mean that these products are also contaminated. But as we have already said, we are committed to this caution. If, for example, we withdraw feed with 2.25 picograms from circulation, this is only a three hundred and fifty-fifths of the value found in Belgium. This measure sees how careful we are. And something else: Obviously, the opposition has great problems because it confuses quality marks with battle stamps. The stamp "A", which is awarded in an Austrian slaughterhouse by an Austrian surveyor, states only that the animal concerned has been slaughtered in an Austrian slaughterhouse. That's not a good sign. In addition, there are quality marks, such as those awarded by the association "Made in Austria" primarily for industrial and industrial products, namely the "red-and-white-red A". For such products, more than half of the value added must come from Austrian production. There is also the clear quality mark for food, namely the AMA mark, where there is also a corresponding control system. Fresh meat with the AMA mark must come to 100 percent from Austria. Milk products with the AMA mark must also come to 100 percent from Austria. In the meantime, a cattle identification system has also been introduced. The bovine identification and the beef identification shall be marked with 1. January 2000 will be introduced throughout the EU, which will be understandable. Many farmers complain and the liberals say that this is a shock for the farmers because they already have to miss two brands for each newborn calf within the first seven days, and within seven days this must be reported. Any change in the stock of each sale, any further breeding, must be reported; this goes to the slaughterhouse and to the cutting plants. We can introduce the same thing with regard to pigs, but then the liberals will say again: If each piglets must be marked, each piglets must be reported to a central office within seven days, then this is again a further step towards the "glass farmers" being controlled everywhere. This is the side of the medal. Mr Smolle! On your statement concerning the devaluation of organic products and your general presumption: Bio-farmers must be subject to strict controls, not only by the AMA, but also by control organisations which are very strict in controlling the attitude, feed and agricultural production several times a year. There, I think, one can then also have confidence in these products. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, time does not allow me to go closer to the other legislative instruments. President Schwarzböck has already presented his ideas to the Weingesetz. However, the feed law will also be adopted, namely new rules on the placing on the market of feed, which will be designed in accordance with EU law. This means that, in the future, the establishments of the feed sector in particular will need authorisation or registration depending on which feed and additives are produced or placed on the market. It also contains rules on the checks to be carried out on the importation of feed, but also on the control of movement of goods within the Community and on provisions relating to a common authorisation procedure. The Plant Protection Principle Act will also be adopted. This is a principle law with constitutional provisions, whereby the countries have to adopt implementing laws. In particular, it regulates the control of plant diseases and pests. Furthermore, this Principle Act provides for additional possibilities to limit the use of affected land areas as well as the participation of EU inspectors in the implementation of plant protection measures. Another final remark. There are also Members in this House who believe that sewage sludge use in agriculture is, as it were, the cheapest exploitation. But precisely by sewage sludge that is applied to our fields, dioxin is at risk. This proves again the dioxin scandal in Belgium. Farmers have been confirmed in their caution that sewage sludge remains a waste product and should not be used as fertilisers, as some imagine.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4640	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Chief. I'll set the clock to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4661	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? . On the one hand, we are now deciding on a new legal basis for feed, with regulatory powers for the Minister of Agriculture in order to improve animal health, in order to achieve a health improvement for the consumer in the food chain. On the other hand, the statements by the two members of the government are about a corresponding diagnosis of the processing of the Belgian dioxin scandal and, in parallel, about the discussion of the increased dioxin levels in feed in Austria. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! ==References====External links== In May 1999, the EU received a message on the Belgian feed scandal. It must not be forgotten that by May of this year the Belgian authorities have concealed this feed scandal, which has already become available in the Belgian newspapers in their own country in February, and have made the intrusive attempt – I almost wish to say evil – to make dio xin bioxin, to cause consumers to die stupid and to harm the farmers deliberately. The European authorities have now reacted differently to this situation and the resignation of the Belgian Government, which was the logical consequence. The neighbouring countries Germany, Holland and France were directly affected by the export of contaminated feed and other European countries have taken appropriate precautions in their area. I do not want to discuss individual details of the course of the setting up of measures in Austria today, but I would like to note three things, ladies and gentlemen, already. The non-EU country of Switzerland, which at the same time received the information in this regard, was the first step following the general information on the 1st century. ==References====External links== In the following steps, which Switzerland has taken, it has overtaken us for five days – with the same catalogue of measures as the Austrian Federal Government has. ==References====External links== June this year, until you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for the first time, have actually given details through your internal service instructions. I mean, Mrs. Federal Minister – you can find out on the Internet on the website of Switzerland – you should check in your own ministry whether there would be anything possible by simplifying the administration in Austria, namely to take parallel steps that can be taken in Switzerland, which has a economical administration. This would be better than after three weeks to follow the interest of Austrian consumers in taking measures one week behind Switzerland. I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, that you need urgent action and improvement in your own field. Ladies and gentlemen! It has long been the discussion here in the Austrian Parliament whether there are negative or positive lists of markings. Take a look at the website of the state of New Zealand on the Internet! ==References====External links== On June of this year, on its website, to announce to consumers all those products of European origin that are safe and that they must withdraw from the market all those that are not safe. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As Minister for Consumer Protection, I have to blame you for having been unable, since 1998, to carry out a proper discussion of the limit values and recommendations for the protection of consumers in Austria by you and your authorities, since the WHO in Geneva revised the dioxin limit values. I've got the paperwork on it. Save me to present this! ==References== Have June It first instructed the Commission of Experts to carry out investigations in the appropriate form and set the limit values. You don't need to think, you can rely on my knowledge. If I wanted to, I could show you the corresponding letter from this package of papers. I think, Mrs Federal Minister, that you should try not to react late on from experience – that is the accusation made to you by Mr Smolle and that we are doing the same for you – not to be negligent and in and after, and then to be organized and active at a high cost, but to plan for our productions in a strategic manner because of the threat to our health, for our businesses, for our health, and for the picture of the taste country Austria, carried out jointly by the Federal Government, in advance. In the post-set limit values will always have the conspicuousness of flexibility limit values. I should also like to draw your attention, Mr Federal Minister, Mrs Bundesminister, to the fact that the 240 picogram for feed referred to by you in your joint issue of both Ministries, when you know the relevant data of the analyses and make the corresponding toxicological returns, is of value to you at the date of 1990 and not to the date of the revision of 1998. I ask you urgently, and I would like to ask you in the interests of Austrian consumers: Recalculate this with your toxicologists! I am convinced that I am right because today I have made the effort to calculate it myself. I should also like to point out, Mrs Federal Minister, that the limit values in Japan and in the United States are lower by a tener potential; in the United States, not by the Food and Drug Administration, that is, the State competent service, but by the environmental physicians and the Institute of National Protection. You can also access the relevant information today from your office on the Internet, like any other Austrian, as well as any daily newspaper, as well as anyone interested in the problem. I therefore ask, in the interests of the safety of our consumers, in the interests of the safety of our productions, for the benefit of our farmers too, that you prevent us from entering a strudel, and that you also take a quick look at what has been officially published, recalculate it, and put your reactions to it in Austria. It is about providing Austrian consumers with the best food, and the damage that always comes to the consumer: the farmer has to keep as little as possible and to compensate for those who have been unnecessarily harmed in such a way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4792	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). At the beginning of his speech, which concerns the "dioxinmisers" (or "dioxinmisers") imported and homemade, is sufficiently supported, was handed over and is included in the proceedings. I now give the floor to Mr Deputies. Let's say the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4817	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we discuss this wine law-novelle and thus the Austrian wine industry, we also have to ask many questions, such as: How has the Austrian wine industry developed in recent years? How did the structural change take place in the wine-growing sector? What quantities are produced and what about marketing? How do our wine farmers cope with the changes resulting from the accession to the European Union? Can they benefit from the new opportunities and challenges in this market? – All these are questions we need to answer. The fact is that today many farms with a small structure, the so-called auxiliary farmers, are forced to lease, lease or give up their vineyards, because we now have to think and operate in larger dimensions in the wine industry. In particular, it is the larger companies, which have modern equipment and are most likely able to market high-quality products. The times when the winegrowers were only producers produced in large quantities and were waiting for the wholesaler to lose their products are over. Today, in addition to a good production, a professional finishing of the product is also important and necessary. Furthermore, the wine grower must also be a merchant at the same time today. He must be careful to be able to market his wines successfully. Wine retailers and cooperatives were once important marketing instruments of our wine industry, but unfortunately more and more have been pushed back over time. Therefore, producers were forced to look for new forms of marketing, and it should be noted that they are now increasingly involved in the marketing of their products themselves. Most of the innovative winegrowers today visit national and international trade fairs in order to recognize the trends and consumer wishes in good time. They also benefit very skillfully from the new and large sales market in Europe and overseas. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been able to meet the demand of wine growers to make the legislation transparent. Of course, the law should also help to facilitate the international marketing of Austrian quality wine. I believe that the division of Austria into four wine-growing regions is essential. The Burgenland and Lower Austria will now together form the wine-growing region "Weinland". This creates a quantity-needed marketing unit. This new form of cooperation between the most important Austrian wine-growing states facilitates the conclusion of contracts with trade chains and ensures a consistent quality. Tag Quality. For example, the Styrian white wine captivates with its aroma and its fruitiness. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] The excellent Green Veltliner in Lower Austria keeps every comparison with the great white wines – also internationally – standing! [[New condolences with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] The wines of the Federal Capital of Vienna have also achieved a significant quality level. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] And not to be forgotten, of course, are the Burgenian predicate wines, the very elegant white wines as well as the high-quality red wines, which also - and also internationally - withstand every comparison. [[More recent demonstrationist condolences with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The wine industry requires only one of our Members, namely that we create a proper framework for them and reduce bureaucratic barriers. I hope that through this innovation we have taken the first step towards a non-bureaucratic administration in the wine industry.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4893	Mr Magistrate has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. [[Abg. May. Barmüller talks to Abg. Axle.]] Whichever brand you want to talk about. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I had to go to the honourable Member's office. Let's just find out if he mentioned the Styrian wines as well. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He did not mention the Tyrolean wines!]] As he assured me, I am very calm and can now turn to the other draft laws that are being negotiated today. I would particularly like to repeat Mr Wabl, who said that we are somewhat careless in dealing with antibiotics in agriculture. – That is not true, Mr Wabl! The request made by the Liberals, and which you also support, is not just about the use of antibiotics in the field of agricultural production, for example. We share the view that they should not be buried in feed, but that it is important not only to exclude the feeding of pets, because there are also breeding animals which are ultimately not intended for consumption and in which it would be wrong not to use antibiotics. We therefore share the view that, when it comes to mass production, antibiotics are the wrong way, both in the feed additive and elsewhere. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We believe that the wrong way is by mass animal husbandry – I would remind you that there has been a request here in the House regarding the abolition of the cage-keeping of chickens! Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary to clarify to what has now been said in connection with the dioxin scandal concerning Belgium and the increased dioxin levels in Austria that these dangerous dioxin doses are, in particular, a product of chlorochemistry. We must note that the path which has been pursued in Austria, but also in Europe, and in which there are always incomplete burns, leads to the production of dioxin. This Immission can ultimately no one escape! I would remind you that in the 1970s and 1980s, even in human milk, there were health-damaging concentrations of dioxin. All of this has been handled by increasing awareness and certain measures, but shows that the dioxin problem is not new and does not occur for the first time. It is striking that, when it appears today, it is particularly concerned with food, and it then reaches a very large extent. The central problem is, Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture has now been operated in an industrially networked form which makes it difficult to reduce a mistake in time once it has happened somewhere. This is the real challenge we see in this context. In March 1998, there were high levels of dioxin concentrations in dairy products in northern France. In May 1998, there were also special problems in relation to meat in France. Recently, there is the scandal in Belgium, but also increased dioxin values in Austria. In view of the fact that the soybean components are, for example, contained in about 30 000 products, it becomes clear that whenever such industrially networked operations are introduced in the field of agriculture, special problems may arise and special challenges must be put to the fore. In Belgium, although these increased dioxin levels occurred only in a single feed factory, 1 570 chicken farms as well as several cattle and pig farms were affected. And this shows that there is too little control in this area. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we Liberals have made it clear that we are of course in favour of a fair price formation in the field of agricultural products, because only by ensuring that good quality can be achieved by means other than mass farming. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We believe that there must be a clear, clear and understandable labelling of foodstuffs. There is also a need for a uniform control system, but its results will also be published continuously, as there will otherwise be no opinion and no other way to make its purchase decisions. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we need special limit values, which are also based on the background stress that exists in relation to the dioxin. We therefore call on the Federal Minister not only to observe WHO's limit values, but also to set new limits in view of the already existing background load that already exists in all places to avoid health risks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4974	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e4995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is positive that, as has already been said, the measures taken in Austria have been precautions and, despite the fact that there have been small difficulties in one or another plant, there is no health hazard because the values measured in these Austrian establishments are a hundred times lower than in Belgium. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It happens by chance that I am on 26 May. In November of last year, a written request concerning data material for slaughtering animals has been sent to you, Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer. It contained questions such as: Do you know what animals are slaughtered from foreign, i.e. non-Austrian production from the EU and which come from Austrian production? and how many foreign slaughter animals – cattle, calves and pigs – have been slaughtered in Austria over the past period? respectively how much Non-Austrian meat has been processed? The answer to this was not quite satisfactory, so I would really like the data on slaughtered animals, such as processed meat by country of origin, to be better placed and made available separately. Ladies and gentlemen! I also urge that not only farmers, retailers and the meat ranchers be controlled, but above all - and this case clearly shows how necessary it is - those farms in the EU, which produce additional components, feed batches, are more closely controlled so that the producer, but also the consumer and the economy can rely on what is sold to have impeccable quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It should also be noted that the consumer can clearly trust that, if he buys Austrian quality, he will acquire a healthy, environmentally sound food. I would really ask that, as Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Schwarzböck have already explained, the stamp of origin is not constantly confused with the stamp of origin. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (on the ranks of the liberals) Still where there are two veterinarians in this group!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] It is clear that the Austrian AMA seal clearly refers to Austrian fresh meat, and it would be necessary for this side of the house to take this into account. [[the speaker refers to the ranks of the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This AMA seal, in spite of all the criticism from this site, proves once again how important it is, because it is possible to understand from which operation the product originates, which origin it is. This clearly puts Austrian quality on the market with corresponding freshness. That's the most important thing! I would like to say the following: It has already been pointed out that, particularly in connection with the disposal of some products – I say carefully "some products", these are sewage sludge, various large composting plants in the urban area and others – agriculture is very often to play the waste disposal, and this is also cost-effective. The fact is that a response by the Ministry of the Environment stated that, if existing limit values are changed due to new findings, new limit values are introduced, or if, due to today's unknown mechanisms, there is an enrichment of pollutants that farmers have to assume responsibility for the delivery of sewage sludge. It cannot be said that the Austrian, the Austrian and in continuation the local authorities are as cheap as possible to dispose of the sewage sludge by allowing it to be carried out on agricultural soils cost-effectively, but then, if there are new limit values, the farmer is to blame. It can't be! He can't assume liability! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, it is important – in order to return to the real issue – that today's feed law, which meets with the events of the last few weeks, is a quality assurance law, so that the Austrian peasantry can trust that the products produced in its area also meet all the requirements. I repeat my urgent request to strengthen controls, particularly in the areas in question, so that the chain does not increase the number of farmers and consumers and call the economy into question. In this sense, we will clearly give this positive law our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5073	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5094	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to become philosophical now, but the dioxin scandal in Belgium, the alarm that something similar might have happened in Austria, the earlier BSE scandal and similar incidents make you think about how it is actually ordered with what we call feasible. We have arrived very quickly at a point where we have to realize that what we called progress yesterday falls on our mind. Somehow the whole thing reminds you of the "talk teacher" who says: "That I called, the spirits, I won't let go now!" I believe that these scandals are really a reason to vote for us thoughtfully. And in such a situation, I must also stress the need to ask ourselves whether and how urgently we should not intervene in the spokes of the wheel of progress, which brings us into situations that can become a subject for us. In fact, it is true that in Brussels agriculture and the food industry are dominated by a number of multis, which exert enormous pressure on suppliers, so that on the one hand, small businesses are very easy to enter and almost no longer available, and on the other hand, suppliers are no longer able to address the health aspects they produce with the products they produce. The farmers have long been replaced by agricultural factories where it is going on and there or even, I have been told, it is necessary that the small chicks are already treated with antibiotics so that they can survive! For the farmer is no longer able to offer because, for example, the final consumer price of a hendl with 25 s simply does not allow any even somehow acceptable producer price, and he can no longer keep up with a purchase price of 10 s per kilo of pig meat. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And the multis put on the thumb screws so that the quality assurance is no longer given. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, you said in the ORF – I heard you – that you wanted to receive Austria as a quality model country, and that we would have responded in time and correctly and prevented it. – Only, Minister, I do not think it is enough to react and control until something has already happened. The great task of both of you is to exert pressure within the EU that the Multis no longer have the sole saying, which is determined by maximum price pressure, but is also taken into account in the health aspects! [[the speaker refers to the Federal Minister for Government, Mag. Prammer and Mag. Molterer]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you also have to ensure that next time we are not presented with hormone-disposed meat from the USA here in Austria. That's your big job! I think you can really put pressure on the EU with good law, because we are among the few net payers! We also have a word to say when it comes to such important decisions! We do not always need to sit there and implement the decisions of the EU such as the model students, but we are an important power because we pay a great deal in Brussels. I ask you to be aware of this responsibility. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! You said there was an import ban anyway. We hear again and again, however, what great pressure is being exerted on all EU countries to give in to the US's desire and to introduce this hormone-disposed beef. I therefore ask you to remain firm on this matter in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5193	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé has been submitted, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Schwemmlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5217	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, the Novelle 1999 wine law is the consistent continuation of the creation of a secure legal basis and a modern framework for the entire Austrian wine industry. For us Social Democrats, this includes not only wine-growers, but also trade – especially consumers, and not least wine-surveying and, with it, strong control. Our reflections have been summarized since all of us were remembered in 1985: uncompromising intervention for quality and unconditional commitment to controlled, limited quantities. – Today, 15 years later, Austrian wine has an excellent reputation worldwide, our top winemakers are world class, we can be proud of them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It should also be noted as quite positive that the number of wine interests has increased sharply. And as a representative of a tourism region, I should like to stress the following: Years ago, the offer – both in quantity and in quality – was rather limited in the gastronomy and not of high level. – Today, we can see that excellent wines are offered and – which is particularly pleasing – consumers also appreciate and buy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another essential point: With the novelle 1999, which we decide today, not only does a complete EU legislative adjustment take place and therefore a new construction of the wine law, ordered by wine-sacred areas, but in addition, the new wine-law is used as a definition, which will no longer - as in the past - lead to misinterpretations due to great scope for interpretation. This wine law Novelle 1999, ladies and gentlemen, brings a new, clearly structured and therefore very practical wine law for producers, trades, wine consumers and wine supervisors, which is also in line with the objective of debureaucratisation by deleting an inventory report. We are convinced that, above all, we are giving the dynamic wine-growing companies, known beyond our borders, a solid, affordable and modern legal basis, which continues to prolongate their success at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5272	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5294	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, Mr Dr. stupidly introduced it on the occasion of the budget debate – yes, how to say? – very bleached porcelain pig as a symbol of this speaker's pulp. – In itself, this symbol should be here today throughout the debate on these agenda items, as a sign of how industrial agriculture deals with animals, in which circumstances, especially in our competition and neighbouring countries, but also in large farms in Austria, will be dealt with with. There are documents that clearly demonstrate that pig farming is a matter for minutes and seconds. This starts with feeding already, because it is all exactly mixed together, which ensures optimal growth, an optimal mix is made with the aim of separating the piglets from the mother as soon as possible, so it is especially worked with a lot of chemistry! Everything is used to get money as quickly as possible. But it is precisely this desire that the pig price in the cellar is in us too, that the mothers also have difficulties in us too, that on the one hand, too, on the other hand, animal suffering is increasing, but on the other hand, the profit is lower. This is paradoxical, that is perverted and for me the clearest signal and the best sign for a completely reckless animal and agricultural policy, which is mostly available in Austria. On the other hand, in Austria we have already taken the future-looking path in agriculture, because, as I believe, it is already 25 percent of the farms organic farms. There is a more just attitude of animals, there the animals have more opportunities – especially the pigs – and they are not being dealt with as is common in the EU on average, for example in the Netherlands, where there are average sizes of more than 4,000 in the hen farms, or in the UK where there are mothers who have 5 750 pigs in a stable! You have to imagine that! In view of this fact, I would also like to point out that the overall level of mass farming is also very, very worrying. Minister! You come from Upper Austria, you know yourself in agriculture much better than some others here in the High House: They themselves know that, for example, the pollution problem that is just arising from the animal mast is partially silenced in Upper Austria. Mr Umweltsanwalt knows exactly that the quantity of manure to be disposed of can never be applied to the fact that the whole quantity, including mustards, especially from mast farms and also from individual holdings, is not intended to be handled in the traditional way, namely by applying to the field. On the other hand, it is still very, very expensive to dispose of these regularly over treatment plants. This false form of agriculture, however, is also a burden on groundwater – almost with a twinkling of eyes – and also a burden on drinking water is being driven forward and maintained. That is why, as always – I think, this has been preached in this house for ten or fifteen years, including by the ÖVP: The only way out of this situation is simply organic farming, which is animal husbandry. This benefits consumers, that brings farmers more, and above all benefits the environment!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5340	Mrs Horngacher has now come to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5361	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This feed law now gives us the opportunity to think in principle about how such developments and scandals could come about in the light of recent events in Belgium. My predecessor, Mrs Partik-Pablé, is absolutely right with her philosophical views. We have to ask ourselves: Which way is it going? – The BSE crisis and the Belgian scandal in the food and feed sector – the additions of prohibited feed – are blatant developments. Hormonal additions in America for milk and mast as well as the genetic engineering uses to increase production on the field and in the stable also have the same patterns. Finally, such responsible derailments are provoked by extreme price-cost printing. I am thinking of our pig prices, I am thinking of our poultry prices. [[Abg. Aumayr: Political decisions, Mrs Colleague!]] It does not work, on the one hand, if you demand ever more expensive and high-quality products, but at the same time always cheaper products. While the entire company is the beneficiaries of cheap products, they can make difficulties in the long run. Cost pressure also increases enormously in the downstream and downstream areas. A system of agriculture, which on the one hand forces farmers economically into increasingly industrialized structures and on the other hand does not reward the quality accordingly, goes the wrong way. The best guarantee against these growths is the farm family. This must be strengthened, and good quality must also have its price! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a very strict food law in Austria. In the future, however, we must focus more on waste management, as the example in Belgium shows. We must also note that, for example, sewage sludge on agricultural soils has not lost anything. [[Abg. Aumayr: Tell the Minister of Agriculture!]] I think it's underestimated! Once you put on sewage sludge, this will not have a big impact. But if you do it all the time, you can have long-term effects, which can never be compensated again. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer talks to Abg. Marizzi.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Minister, you should be careful, this is about the sewage sludge!]] - He knows! Where food is produced is too dangerous everywhere. We want to keep our soils healthy, and we therefore reject the sewage sludge application. Although it is the cheapest disposal, it may be most expensive in the long run. We farmers do not make our soils available as the waste dome of the nation! We need to be aware that man has to be careful about his resources. Everything that comes into circulation with toxins remains in circulation and can have negative effects. That is why I am absolutely against the authorisation of hormones in the mast and in milk production. Minister! It would be important to resist vehemently in Brussels! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: (in the direction of the Federal Minister Mag. Mr Molterer) He's not interested in this, Mr. Minister.]] We all – including science – do not know what long-term consequences and effects are associated with it. This also applies to the genetic modification of plants. It would therefore be irresponsible for me to take a different position. When will man understand that we are not allowed to do everything that we can already see from the state of the art today? – We have to think long-term! In conclusion, it is clear from this current discussion that we in Austria can already be proud of our domestic agriculture. The principle of sustainability, as always demanded by our thinker and former Minister of Agriculture Josef Riegler, is also continued by the current Minister, who also belongs to our party. And it turns out that our agricultural policy is the right one! Low prices automatically affect quality, so I must ask for solidarity between farmers and consumers. This must also include providing healthy food to the farmer, but also having an income from the proceeds of his work and with the compensation payments, which will allow him to share in the welfare of society.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5463	Mr Koller has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5484	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! The new feed law totally disregards the dioxin contaminants. In any case, the new feed law is not a real solution to the problem. The true causes of the dioxin load such as waste burning, paper sheets, sewage sludge discharge and other sources have not been brought to life for years. Ladies and gentlemen! These failures have led to unfavourable irritations in the field of feed production. Again, as in the BSE scandal, the carelessness of some is carried out on the back of all farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We farmers must trust the feed companies. But out of carelessness – yes, I even say under quotations "out of pure profit" – feed is produced that harm not only farmers but also consumers. [[Abg. Steibl: What are you feeding your fiddles?]] The production of food is a matter of trust. We farmers are trying to ensure that consumers are trusted. But although we are neither the causes of the dioxin tax nor could know anything about it, we, the farmers, are the main victims. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems certain that contaminated feed was already in circulation in Belgium in the middle of January. Since the beginning of February there has been a marked decrease in the number of legumes in Belgian breeding hens. Eggs of these hens showed extremely bad results in slipping. The surviving virgins showed poisoning. It is irrational and indebted that this has been kept secret for so long and the public has been informed so late! The early warning system agreed by all EU countries did not work – like so much in this impenetrable, anti-farm and corrupt EU! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibbl: Such a fool!]] In any case, the new feed law is not a real solution to the problems. Although the annual costs will rise from around 10 million schillings to 28 million schillings so far, no dioxin can be investigated in the future in Austria. Very short to the Plant Protection Principle Act: It seems useful to take account of the different productions in the legislation. For example, in Vorarlberg Grünland and Weideland are dominant, in Lower Austria of arable land and in the Styria of fruit- mainly apple cultivation. The Steiermark therefore needs, for example, a different regulation. To give a brief example: Integrated production and warning services must be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not see that honest, decent farmers have the cost to pay for it. If there is a debt, then of course the cost should be borne by the causer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The problems must be dealt with at the roots! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Act – but not in favour of the agricultural industry, not in favour of the chemical lobby, but for the benefit of farmers and consumers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5582	The amendment tabled by Mr Koller has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, supported accordingly and included in the negotiations. Mr Grabner spoke next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5607	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to comment today, particularly from the point of view of the consumer or consumer protection, on the amendment of the feed law. This bill has received an unpredictable breeze due to the dioxin incidents in Belgium, but also in Austria. However, I would like to point out that, at the beginning of the interministerial negotiations between the agriculture ministries and the consumer protection sector in the spring of 1998, the Federal Chancellor's Office's officials went into the negotiations with the aim of strengthening and strengthening the competence of consumer protection. I do not wish to mention in this connection that these objectives have been consistently accepted by the representatives of the agricultural sector. There are, for example, improvements in the field of the participation in the authorisation of additives, increased provisions for the authorisation of feed establishments, improved labelling of feed and others. Ladies and gentlemen! This gives rise to improved transparency in the composition of feed with regard to antibiotics, vitamins and the like. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But we get all this bad from the EU!]] The above-mentioned improvement in the control of feed now allows control – listen a little; [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We get it from the EU!]] You always wake up when someone else screams at your speech! – at the place of feeding, i.e. in the agricultural holding, even without suspicion of abuse in the form of routine checks. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not at all!]] In the context of future scientific experiments, the participation of the consumer protection sector in the verification of the safety of human health is possible. Finally, there is cooperation by the Federal Chancellery, there is consumer protection on imports from third countries – listen a little! – and the requirements for the approval of establishments. [[Abg. Aumayr: But it will not be useful if this only happens in Austria and the other EU countries...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think the following is very important: The recent dioxin incidents, unfortunately also in our country, once again show that consumer protection is also a preventive factor in the sense of producers. [[Abg. Gaugg: Did you burn your fingers, or what? He's got an injury on his finger!]] The market today is decisively focused on success or failure by farmers. [[Abg. Wenitsch: Politics too, not just the market!]] When buying the food, he decides whether he chooses quality or cheap goods. In any case, he expects – and this is confirmed by numerous studies – product reliability and product safety. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have implemented this very objective by strengthening the participation of the Ministry of Consumer Protection in feed law. I would like to express my recognition on behalf of the Austrian consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As agreed, on the one hand, the negotiations at the level of officials between the two departments, as I mentioned earlier, have taken place, so comprehensively and consistently, on the other hand, I expect the joint, rapid processing of the current dioxin incidents in our country. This should be done with all hardness! The new feed law will enable us in the future to act more preventively, to prevent such incidents even more effectively or to detect and suspect them more quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5715	Mrs Anneliese Klein is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5736	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! No one knows what the ÖVP stands for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – Is she standing behind the peasants with the peasants, or is the chamber trying to wipe out the farmers? Once again, the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP agreed in a night and fog action on an overall change to the Wine Act, whose content was sent to the other political groups only a few hours before. What you have led from SPÖ and ÖVP to this sudden change is difficult to understand. But as your attitude to democracy and to parliamentarianism is, we already know and have been able to see this clearly by your current course of action. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They completely abandon the review and wonder when a Husch-Puff law comes about, which is not practical and has great gaps. You must not be surprised if the Austrian winegrowers are horrified at the fact that such a law on wine is passed! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Feed law! Wrong speech!]] It raises the question of what will be understood as wine in the future. In the wine law currently in force, this is still precisely regulated in § 1. I quote from the Wine Law: "Wine within the meaning of this federal law is the drink produced by alcoholic fermentation from the juice of fresh and suitable for the preparation of wine grapes. The grapes are"... "fresh as long as they can produce juice without addition of foreign liquid," and the grapes are "suitable if the juice has a must weight of at least 13 degrees Klosterneuburger Mostwaage (KMW). - Quote. [[Abg. Koppler: Incorrect note!]] In today's amendment to the wine law, it seems that almost everything can be understood by "wine". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Gumpoldskirchen!]] The same is true of fruit wine, which can now also be produced from fruit juice concentrate. How long will it take for wine to be produced only from concentrates? Where is the much-quoted "fine-cost shop" of quality wines? It is also incomprehensible that the federal states of Burgenland and Lower Austria form the wine-growing region "Wijnland", the German states of Carinthia, Upper Austria, Salzburg, Tyrol and Vorarlberg have been named the wine-growing region "Bergland", whereas the Federal State of Styria remains the wine-growing region "Steiermark", and the state of Vienna forms the wine-growing region "Vienna". The Styrian winegrowers have decided to leave their current three vineyards unchanged. In Vienna, the winegrowers can offer both quality wine and agricultural wine on the basis of a historical arrangement. On the other hand, the largest wine-growing areas, Lower Austria and Burgenland, their country wine can only offer under the name of "Weinland". [[Abg. Großruck: We have the best red wine in the world!]] Austria is a small wine-growing country with a small rural structure compared to other EU countries. It would be useful to create the necessary national accompanying measures for our wine farmers, as they have to bear the heavy burden of EU agricultural policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, we will not agree to this wine law in the interests of our small wine-growers!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5835	I call Mr Zweytick. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5865	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mrs Klein, I must say that I do not know what you were talking about, but a colleague has just told me that you are a wine farmer from Gumpoldskirchen. If you allow, I'll visit you soon to find out a few things, possibly on site in your winery. Otherwise, I cordially invite you to come to Styria to talk about wine in its context with the laws and to understand the current situation on the market compared to the foreign regions and their wines that are also entering the market. We will be able to answer it! In this respect, today's proposal for an initiative to the Novelle wine law is very welcome in order to be able to answer in good time in this situation. In the first place, there is also a better legibility of the existing wine law in the form of debureaucratisation. This is very important for the small wine growers, because the bureaucracy does not decrease, but increases. With this wine law, it is now also possible to decide on a large part of the debureaucratisation for the wine farmers. An example of debureaucratisation is, for example, the abolition of the first inventory report at the end of April. As a wine-grower, you should know what the work is, how many hours you have to work on, how much valuable time is lost at the expense of the vineyard or the wine cellar, just for a statistical purpose, which cannot be properly controlled at all, but only causes costs. It was high time that this first report was abolished. An essential step towards a better legibility of the legislative directives has been achieved. In the view of practice, we can also be satisfied with the fact that so-called mandatory minimum values are no longer compulsory in the future. This is particularly to be welcomed because the extract content or ash content of a wine is mainly subject to natural influences. You can't impose laws on nature. In the end, nature prevails in the properties of a wine. Especially the extract value is a problem, because it is very difficult to bring together values in extreme years, especially on hot southern layers and gravely soils. By demanding a minimum level of law, wine farmers are presented with requirements that they simply cannot meet. This regulates nature, and it would be important to adapt these laws to the climatic influences and nature. Therefore, certain – certainly inadvertent or unwanted – mistakes of the winegrowers can no longer be recognized as a court offence, but must be treated by the authority as administrative proceedings. This too is very important, Mrs Colleague. The natural climatic influences and differences between regions give rise to advantages and disadvantages for the wine. But it is up to the wine-growers to make capital out of it. The special local wine specialities are becoming increasingly strong on the world market, and no one is talking about the Austrian wine scandal today. These were and are restrictive measures, for example, the production limits for regional quality and agricultural wines. Mr Schwarzböck has already pointed out: The merger of the wine-growing areas in Burgenland and Lower Austria under the brand "Austrian Wine Country" is also another important step in order to prevent foreign trade marks on the domestic market – simply to have the necessary batches, speak quantities. We are a small wine country, we do not have the large quantities, but we simply have to defend ourselves against competition and make a corresponding offer available to consumers. In order to be able to supply corresponding quantities in view of the strong demand, the new name "Weinland Österreich" can be used. Wines from several wine-growing areas between Lower Austria and Burgenland are offered to a greater extent on the market in order to prevent competition from international wines. There are other examples. This was ensured today in order to ensure that the Austrians can not only afford domestic wine at all times, but also that it is available in sufficient quantity. Mrs. Klein! They asked: What does the ÖVP stand for, this People's Party? – This People’s Party is in favour of facilitating production conditions, and also of protecting our products in competition on the international market through appropriate legal guidelines. It also stands for giving our products at the same time the necessary free space to be able to prove themselves in order to prevail. I'm not counting all the terms of this wine law novelle. I'll come to you, or you'll come to me. I'll invite you now. These are important measures that are being put in place today. We are obliged to provide the necessary framework conditions to Austrian wine-growing plants, which are hard to work in and which are hardly superior to working intensity. Finally, Austrian wine-growing also ensures a dream landscape that must be preserved. In this area there are many other challenges for the future, for which we need to create the necessary framework conditions in order to secure this particular location. What I do not understand – precisely because you are always so important to the farmers from the liberals – is that yesterday you did not support the two-percent oil tax exemption from the FPÖ, which was exempt from the mineral oil tax. What I do not understand is that you are against the increase in the pre-tax rate from 10 to 12 per cent. This brings the Austrian farmers 1.2 billion schilling, but you have also rejected that. In fact, I understand that you reject this important initiative on the novice of the wine law. This is something extremely important for the wine-growing regions, for the wine-growers! You can't do something better than act instead of talking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today and here have been traded in the sense of Austrian winemaking, in the sense of the people working in this area. Something else on the subject of grape juice, which you, Mrs Klein, attracted to your comment on the fresh grapes and the 13 percent Klosterneuburger Mostwaage. According to the Austrian wine law, a wine must have at least 9 volumes of alcohol, after which the wine law is based. Everything that has less is something else. Don't mix these things! Federal Minister! I should like to thank you very much for this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5958	Mr Sevignani has now come to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e5980	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Feinkosladen Österreich" or "Fischlers Feinsladen", it is said again and again. However, since accession to the EU, this delicacy has been greatly shaken. Austria always had one of the strictest food laws, but it is constantly being watered down by the EU. I am thinking, in this context, of our farmers who make daily efforts to market the best food. It's you who's getting innocent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Obviously, once again the EU agricultural factories and control over them have failed. To do this, you can only say: "Beautiful greetings from Brussels" to Austria and its consumers! In this context, many questions arise. How much damage has been done so far? How many animals were imported into Austria? How many follow-up products have been marketed? Which foods from the EU are taxed? – The keyword is dioxin. But that's just the tip of an iceberg. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also raises the question: Who protects the animals from burdened feed? Who protects our farmers? And who protects us, the consumers? All these questions have to be answered by our sparse government. According to Listeries, Trichomonades, hormone-disposed U.S. meat, salmonella and bovine insanity, the dioxin is now coming. This list is not complete, so consumers must be given uncertainty and distrust of certain foods. The lack of agricultural policy in the EU shows us again that the production of food is either not or too little controlled and therefore is no longer manageable. It is time to take appropriate measures on the part of the government to ensure that the damage to the Austrian peasantry is kept in limits. A quick investigation is also needed so that tourism through these Causas does not suffer damage! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Man is what he eats. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Loaded feed produces loaded foods. The question is: What are we eating? – After the EU has prescribed a number of additives, such as flavors, odors, preservatives, softeners and taste enhancers, this question is not or is not easy to answer. Only a land-related Austrian agriculture without feed from the EU agricultural factory guarantees us Austrian quality again. "Featurklade Österreich" – meal!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6047	Mr Gradwelt. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6068	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have a number of debates in this plenary week in the House on the subject of Austrian agriculture, although they have not really been given priority and a debate on agriculture is actually being held today. I recall the decisions on tax reform 2000, in which the tax rate has increased from 10 to 12 per cent for flat-rate agricultural and forestry holdings, and the tax exemption of a two per cent supplementation of rape oil to normal diesel has been decided, or the novelle to the driving licence law, which brings relief to the owners of driving licence classes B and F, but I also recall the decisions still to date on animal health, the Animal Health Act which has already been addressed. Here, too, farmers can expect better compensation. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of today's agenda, we also deal with the feed law and the wine law, which we have to innovation with today's decisions. In particular, in connection with the debate which has already been held and in particular with the allegations of the opposition group, I should like to point out that: Firstly, Mrs Klein, I would like to make available to you the Committee's report on the wine law. In it you can read what is actually decided today. Because I think you're dancing with your speech at the wrong wedding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, with the Committee's decision, we have succeeded in creating exactly what has already been mentioned several times, namely the organic farming sector, special advantages and special safeguards in terms of feed, thus highlighting this important agricultural area. I am already at the heart of my statements. For, ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers of my group have already commented on the laws in detail. High house! We can list – and this has been said several times today – a long list of additives, of additions, of problems and sometimes scandalous problems relating to the food industry and the feed industry. But we can also say with pride: We have a large share of organic farms in Austria. In my view, these represent the future, the future of farming in a wide variety of ways. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you believe the surveys carried out across Europe – and I do – then 68 percent of Europeans have the highest level of food safety and consumer protection policy at all. Federal Minister! That is why, also with reference to Mrs. Horngacher – she has voted in favour of supporting the agricultural farms – I can repeat once again and as has been said several times before: The future of the Austrian family farms in agriculture lies in organic production. It is in organic production due to the quality of the products, due to the safety of the products, but also due to the great performance for the environment in our country. We must therefore continue to take steps, despite the improvements in today's decisions, to ensure that agricultural production is carried out in full biological terms and to strengthen the support of organic farmers in the future so that we can avoid problems as they have occurred in Belgium.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6130	Mr Wenitsch has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6151	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Like Mr Wabl: Mr President, I agree with you in many areas of your speech. We will also agree to your request for measures based on the dioxin scandal. Unfortunately, we have to reject the second request concerning the introduction of a land connection in animal husbandry. For what is required in this request can only be demanded in Europe. In my opinion, this request is only applied to the fact that, although this is true here in Austria but unfortunately not in the whole of the EU, God is not required. That's why we have to reject him. Minister! Today's government documents concerning the feed law and the plant protection law, as well as the application to amend the wine-growing law, primarily mean more bureaucracy for farmers and, of course, additional costs. I cannot imagine that we can expect a crisis-stricken agriculture in Austria to have higher costs and more bureaucracy in the future. That is why we will, of course, reject this proposal and the two government proposals. Minister Molterer! With regard to your statement that control here in Austria is working quite well, I give you the right. However, I would also like this control for agricultural products and foodstuffs imported into Austria. Here in Austria, our farmers are really being monitored according to strictest guidelines. Why not apply the same level of control to products which are not produced in Austria but which are more or less accused of eating our consumers with the same sharpness? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Your argument regarding labelling may be understood here by a few colleagues. I am convinced that it is not understandable for all that there are differences between an Austrian product that has been marked by the AMA and a product on which the great "A" stands. Mr Schwarzenberger, the consumer is confused. That's how you have to see it. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are confused! The consumer is not confused, but you are confused!]] This confusion is already leading to consumer deception, and we end up there. We want to avoid that in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we demand strict labelling for all products. On the product "Belgian meat, packed in Austria" I have nothing against it. But this should be on the product, on the package, so that the consumer can really decide what he is buying in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzböck! They also meant that good reactions had been made. Yes, I am right, it has been quite well responded here in Austria to the scandals that have come about in recent years as a result of EU accession to our country. But reactions are not enough, we have to act! We must take preventive measures to increase consumer confidence in Austrian products here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister Molterer! I just need to look at the foreign press. "Fishers demand control instance" – excellently, he already admits that the controls have failed! The Swiss farmers demand a declaration from 2000 onwards; they already block borders and demand more controls. Minister! Why, please, don't you finally give up the pressure of the liberals? Why Saying You don't: Yes, we want to control more in the future!Unknown term type: "%s".? All agricultural products that have not been produced in accordance with Austrian directives and conditions, and also foodstuffs will be imported in the future only if they have been produced in accordance with Austrian criteria. – That would be a fair competition. We cannot allow ourselves and do not believe that our farmers, who are now – thank God – moving to an ecologicalization to a large extent, are being drawn into a competition in which they draw the shorter ones from the outset. They cannot today demand from a small farmer, who traditionally produces and manages organic farming, that he can compete with the agricultural industry and with agricultural groups in the European Union or in America. It won't work. We can only help these farmers and producers by finally introducing stricter guidelines for the import of food. Everything else doesn't make sense, we can't rely on anything else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the friends of Social Democracy: I got an invitation from you today. Unfortunately, the official opening takes place at 12 o'clock, and I am now here at the speaker's desk. Otherwise, I would have liked to go. I am really pleased that the social democracy of consumer protection seems to be stressed more strongly at last. This is a particularly important concern. We need to look at our consumers, we want to provide consumers with healthy and decent food in the future. Minister! I would like to raise a point of order before submitting the motion for a resolution. They know for themselves how the mycoplasm vaccination is in pig farming. Mr Molterer, there is something going on, so two thirds of Austrian farmers are seriously disadvantaged. You know what I mean. Only recognised producer communities will be reimbursed for the costs of vaccination in the future. You are personally responsible for the recognition of producer communities, which is subject to your place of business. I ask you to create guidelines so that in the future farmers who do not market their products via an ÖVP-near piglets ring or through the pig market will also be entitled to these promotions. Two thirds of Austrian pig farmers are severely disadvantaged in this Republic. That's not a condition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6242	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mrs Petrovic has also spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6266	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I put forward a motion for a resolution on the land use of all livestock holdings. That is to say, it concerns the opposite principle of how animal products are produced in Holland, Belgium or Northern Germany. [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that the most important principle is the protection of agricultural production structures, the protection of consumer interests, the protection of the environment and the protection of animals. I know. The Federal Minister will say that this connection exists in the field of eco-promoting. Yeah, that's right, but she doesn't exist for all farms. This is precisely the problem of agricultural policy in Austria: Although there is a well-developed bio segment, which is better developed than elsewhere in Europe, it is still not a continuous principle. That's exactly what the Greens want: organic production for everyone! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many sins and mistakes have happened here. It was one of the first steps taken by the EIA as a result of the accession of the EU to lift the upper limits of stocks and thus take a good step towards northern European agricultural factories and to turn its back on Austrian agricultural production. This has nothing to do with the "fine shop". This blurry policy that you do not rely clearly and exclusively on organic-biological production is now in revenge. We could now be present on the markets as an Austrian supplier, also due to the uncertainty of consumers, if you had not done this double play of politics. Although there is admittedly a state eco-promotion, one does not want to be surprised with the agricultural factories, wholesalers and major structures. This washer today harms Austrian farmers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I have some very special concerns, Mr. Federal Minister! As early as 1996, the issue of the use of waste oils in feed was addressed from Styria. My colleague Andreas Wabl has referred to this. What happened then? – Instead of ensuring that animals which have been fed with these dangerous waste oils cannot be placed on the market here, the classification of waste oils and fats has been eliminated as hazardous waste! This means that these waste oils are subject to free movement of goods. Even if they do not come into the feed here, no one in the old oil consumers in Austria is preventing them from buying up the fats. The transport costs are low – there is no eco-tax – so the whole dirt is transported to Holland. It is melted in there, partly with plastic packaging – that is, the dioxin – and this barleyy fat-plastic mash is then fed to animals. The products of these animals, in turn, are subject to free movement of goods. And we heard: About 6 percent of the meat in Austria is Belgian meat. I can only say: Cheers of food! The event of the VKI takes place over there. Control is very good, but as long as one does not do anything against these production conditions, the controllers ultimately stand on lost posts. They run a constantly renewing, ever larger scandal behind. As I said, there are expired butter and margarine packs along with the plastic packaging – it would cost expensive working time, one would have to get the packaging out, so everything will immediately come into the big furnace and then get to the pigs, to the chickens, to the poultry. The feed is also subject to free movement of goods and can also be imported. As has been said, dioxin is now being controlled. But you know that these controls are complex. They are expensive, and above all they are no substitute for putting this insanity in place. That's crazy, what's going on! Federal Minister! The fact that it does not apply to Austria that there would be an island of the Blessed is now evidenced by the people who are being damaged here in Austria. I am not just talking about the animals – you know that I have always stood up for them. In the meantime, people have already been harmed, and I will give you very specific cases; I have already referred to them, I have referred to them all. I strongly ask: What happened in these cases? First case: Bad Waltersdorf. An Austrian inn, a foreign pension is pushed to the edge of the threat of existence. The neighbor there has an intensive chicken holding approved for 4 800 chickens. Three black buildings have now been built there – for this there is no construction permit – and there are now 74 000 chickens instead of 4 800. We know that workers of such establishments also have a high health risk for lung diseases. The bird-holdings, the farmerlungs is a phenomenon that is painfully known in occupational medicine. Of course, this also concerns the neighbours, i.e. tourism. There is also a corn-drying plant there, a giant silo, which was also built without a construction permit. The current costs of this gastronomy plant amount to 350 000 S, so high is its damage so far. This operation will soon have to give up because it cannot prevail. And what is the reason why so many black buildings are created there? – The operator of this facility is related to Landesrat Pöltl! That is the real reason why such a thing is possible. [[Abg. Wabl: Incredible!]] I ask you, Minister of State: What's going to be You do? Or say to the person concerned: Unfortunately, bad luck! There goes the family relationship, there goes the blood ties in front of the rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's an odious assumption! You should be ashamed!]] Come on. Here you go to the speaker's desk! You know everything very well again, Mr Maitz – just as you told us yesterday the untruth. You are the Grand Master of Untruths, Mr. Maitz! You sold us an old APA report yesterday as a supposed letter from the judicial department. I think, ladies and gentlemen, you can judge for yourself what the truth is about the statement of such a Member. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [["Ah" call to the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Come to the speaker's desk and say that the operator of the chicken plant in Bad Waltersdorf is not related to Landesrat Pöltl! Then we will conduct the debate publicly. I have such information. Maybe you have others. Second case: Pyhra in Lower Austria. There there is planned a pig manure farm for 4,000 to 5,000 pigs. Their attitude is not possible in an appropriate way, where antibiotics need to be used. In the case of 4,000 to 5,000 pigs, a sick pig can endanger the entire population, so they will necessarily get medical food – what we all say we don't want. Well-marked: It is about a newly built operation, not about an old plant! The trailer, which has now turned to us – and probably to you – lives 100 meters away. Would you, ladies and gentlemen, like to live 100 metres from a pig mast with 4,000 to 5,000 pigs? - You can only settle there. That is crazy, what is happening there – not in Holland, not in Belgium, not in Brabant, but here in Austria, and that is a shame! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You've known the third case for many years. You all know this case, it's a case in which the legal categories somehow fail. It is about Gnas, a well-known black construction in Gnas, an unauthorised dry-drying plant. This is about the worst thing for neighbors, the most annoying thing that can happen in the neighborhood. Several people have now capitulated. They say that the rule of law has gone down, and they have moved away. I have been following the events in Gnas since 1995, and I must say that I am unscrupulous. [[Abg. Wabl: This is the ÖVP that protects property rights!]] The head of state knows about it, all the councils know it, you all know it. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Wabl and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The affected people were also in my presence at Klubobmann Kostelka. We were everywhere, we tried everything, but nothing goes! [[Abg. Wabl: Gardener lie!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Maitz please listen carefully again. Mr Maitz! Maybe you don't know this document either, but you'll know it soon. [[The speaker reads from a document kept up-to-date.]] Feldbach County Head Team – the number of businesses can You will then see here –, 13. November 1996, notice of a penalty: ==References====External links== You have been obliged to do the following: The use of the halls and plots for the growing of chickens, which have been mentioned here in detail, is now to be omitted for whatever purpose – with other prison sentences. - Quote. What do you think happened after the August 1994 and after the November 1996 penalty threat? What do you think has happened in the rule of law in Austria since then? What do the young rulers at the gallery mean? – Nothing happened, nothing at all! This plant will continue to operate. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Perfectly wrong! That's wrong again!]] It has been said on the part of the country that the funds are missing to carry out the penalty. As a result, the animal protectionists carried out a collective action. We have increased the costs of implementing the measure to the poor Styria country. We put a six-digit schilling amount on the table and we said: If the country is so poor, even if the community is so poor – we pay it! – The money came back, and they said: This is not possible in the rule of law, we cannot accept private money to execute state decisions. The environmental assessment is more than clear: I've come here from a medical doctor, from medical counsel Dr. Forged, an opinion – he is also unknown to Mr Maitz – in which he says that there are diseases that otherwise do not occur in this concentration in the population. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That went into your bones yesterday! Show the letters from the Ministry of Justice!]] [[Abg. Wabl: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Maitz)... because you lie!]] They are cancers, they are deaths that have occurred there, and not minor complaints. A medical opinion says that statistically not expected in this concentration – that is most likely due to this plant. We have an environmental report that shows the unsustainability, the absurdity of the loads black on white. The reaction in the legal state of Austria, the reaction in the black Styria: Oh, shit! And behind the hand they all say: The legal representative of the company, Dr. Hohenberg, has such good relations; he is stronger than all these citizens and stronger than the district headquarters Feldbach with their in vainly threatened penalty. I can still present you with a long list of cases in which it has not yet gone so far – in legal categories – as follows: Himberg-Velm, Lichtenau, Lichtenwörth, Pyhra, Karnabrunn, Raiding, Breitnau, Ladendorf, Achau, Langmannersdorf, Euratsfeld, Hausleiten, Emmersdorf, Gallneukirchen, Tragwein, Zemendorf, Kremsdorf, Forchtenstein and, as I said, Bad Waltersdorf, what I started with. In all these cases citizens' initiatives have already been formed. They turned to the People's Procuratorate, and they turned to the parliamentary clubs. People are desperate. They built family houses, they owe themselves, and now they can't open the window anymore. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: When did they build?]] The groundwater is beyond good and evil. People with many children have to prepare every tea, every soup with bought water, because you can no longer give the water to the children. The rule of law says: Unfortunately, bad luck! – The agricultural lobby sits on a long branch. They are related, held, weakened or anything else, and all legal instruments have so far landed in nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer) How do you express yourself?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's bad what happened in Holland and Belgium. I do not want to say that the structures in Austria – still – are much better. I also recommend - still - to consumers that they buy Austrian products, products from organic farms. They can rely on that. But I'll tell you one thing: If you do this Wiglwagl policy – a bit of a bio as a niche for the rich and the biolade consumers, and the rest, the wide mass that eats in the canteens and factory kitchens, really gets such a dirt, with all the suffering of the neighbors – then the strategy of the "Feinkosladen Österreich" failed. There's an Either-Oder! A bit of both-but doesn't go up. Mr Federal Minister, here you are, above all, required as Minister responsible! I say that your test is that you clean them up, in the truest sense of the word!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6506	At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Dr Petrovic presented a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the negotiations. I now have a speech by Mr Fink on an actual correction. Mr President, the speaking time is 2 minutes, and I would ask you, at the beginning, to give a concrete presentation of the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6534	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Member of the Commission. Petrovic has claimed that because of the dehydration plant or because of the egg recovery plant in Gna's people have moved away from there because it smells so bad because it is so bad there because the noise pollution is so high. – It is incorrect what you said! It is true, rather, that people still live there, and it is also true that this peat drying plant or the egg recycling plant has been closed for half a year and that 183 farmers are no longer able to deliver their goods to this farm.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6611	Ladies and gentlemen! There's another word message, but I won't call it until you've calmed down! [[Further violent calls to the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to stop the calls now! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl, please! Federal Minister Mag. Molterer, you're speaking now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6662	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to start by thanking you for the largely fair and correct debate on feed situation and dioxin in Austria. I would particularly like to thank the fact that, in the majority of the speeches here in the House, it was made very clear that there is no comparability with Belgium and that there is no health risk for consumers. I would also like to make a clear statement in this debate on three further questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture in Austria works and produces at a high quality level, including with regard to the issue of environmental compatibility: The aim of the Austrian farmers is to produce high quality products in a natural and responsible way. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say very clearly from this point of view: I do not let the Austrian farmers throw themselves into a pot by some sort of individual case with practices that take place outside Austria and that do not find my consent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also do not let the reputation of Austria be destroyed by individual cases – whoever tries with what motivation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I note that the Austrian food industry is producing food for Austrian consumers, ladies and gentlemen, in a high-quality and responsible way – whether small and medium-sized enterprises or businesses in the industry – in the Austrian food industry. I note that Austria's food needs no comparison at all at all. On the contrary: You're at the top! That is what we want and must defend, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore join with colleagues from the Austrian Federal Government in maintaining this level of growth, because we can only stand in international competition for the long term, ladies and gentlemen. However, I am equally concerned to keep the uncertainty out of this discussion and to give clarity and security: Security for farmers, security for the economy, safety, especially for consumers, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to leave the fair and correct level of discussion in this debate, in view of some of the contributions made to the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Pigs from abroad receive the stamp "A"!]] In this way, I regard much of this discussion, including the contribution made by the honourable Member, Mr Wabl's contribution and the contribution made by Mr Smolle, as a compliment to the Austrian farmers and to the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: But not for your policy!]] I would just like to make three brief comments on the present legislative proposals: The feed law, ladies and gentlemen, is an important legal basis in order to be able to provide safety in the future in the registration and registration of establishments, in imports from third countries and also in respect of the authorisation procedure. Mr Smolle and Mr Wabl. On your suggestions and questions, I would like to say that I am voting in favour of a European regulation precisely on the basis of the arguments you have put forward, because we can only give safety to farmers and consumers through clear European rules on the issue of additives and labelling. To the wine law, ladies and gentlemen: The Wine Act continues to be the legal framework which, on the one hand, provides an unmistakable quality orientation for the wine sector, but on the other hand also provides the necessary orientation for the market, for market transparency and for the needs in marketing. Ladies and gentlemen! I presented this wine law novelle at the meeting of the Federal Wine Association, and I would like to inform the House that the Austrian wine industry, namely the producers and the wine trade, welcomes this wine law novelle: as progress, as a step in the right direction, in the direction of quality, towards the market and towards debureaucratisation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to ask all sides, all of them, to make a contribution to keeping our quality level, our level of ecological quality. I ask, above all, to leave the church in the village and to give more security and not to contribute to uncertainty, despite all the legitimate criticism of some members of the opposition I understand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6754	Mr. Zweytick, what's going on? [[Abg. Zweytick: (on the way to the Bureau) I want to make an actual correction!]] Maybe such a report goes a little earlier the next time. Mr Zweytick referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6794	Thank you very much, Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few points here. The claim that Mr Agro-Landesrat Pöltl is related to the Heartinger family in Bad Waltersdorf is incorrect. I should also like to point out that Mr Landesrat Pöltl has nothing to do with the black buildings, because the construction and spatial planning in the state of Styria is responsible for and responsible for Mr Landesrat Schmid.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e6834	There is no more word message for this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[Unrest in the hall.]] A final word was not requested by the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you seriously now – you too, Mr Koller. – not to disturb the voting process! That means, I'm asking you to be quiet. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft feed law 1999 in 1648 with the amendments to the Committee's report in 1941. Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The amendment by Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades concerns the insertion of a new paragraph 4 in Section 3. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall therefore immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, as amended by the Government template, in 1648, with the amendments to the Committee's report in 1941. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to sign approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Anyone who agrees in third reading should give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now vote on all the motions for resolutions tabled on this item on the agenda. Firstly, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on imported live pigs and A-stamps. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades on measures to improve food safety. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on measures on the dioxin scandal. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Main and comrades concerning dioxin mysers – imported and homemade. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on US hormone meat and dioxin foods. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on the prohibition of imports of food and feed, which were not produced in accordance with Austrian rules and conditions. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to agree to a sign on this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the introduction of a land connection in animal husbandry for all farms. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the draft basic plant protection law in 1750 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment so that I will first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. The amendment tabled by Members Aumayr and comrades refers to § 4 para. 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. - That's the majority. This is accepted by the majority in the version of the Government template. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this part to be a sign of approval. – I notice: Now we have reached unanimity. This part was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – At third reading, this draft was adopted by a majority. Next, we vote on the draft federal law, which amends the wine law 1985 and the AMA law 1992, including the title and receipt in 1943 of the supplements. This draft law contains a constitutional provision, so that I begin by stating, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, that the quota necessary for the vote is the constitutional number of Members. I ask all those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This draft has been adopted by the majority, with the two-thirds quorum required by the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to a similar sign. – adopted by a majority. In this case, too, the two-thirds quorum provided for by the constitution is present. We are now voting on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1944 of the supplements. This draft, which amends the 1992 AMA Act, also contains a constitutional provision, so that I first make the necessary provision regarding the given presence quorum. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This draft... [[Abg. Wabl stands next to the square of Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mr Wabl, this is not the usual way of voting. [[Abg. Wabl takes next to the seat of the Abg. Haidlmayr Platz.]] . This draft has been adopted by a majority, and I expressly note that the two-thirds quorum required by the Constitution is given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft is adopted by a majority of the required two-thirds majority at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1767 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 (1964 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7109	We're coming to the 5th. Agenda item. Since there has been no oral reporting, we are immediately beginning the debate with a contribution by Mrs Edith Haller. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You want to get out with 6 minutes of speech. I'll set the clock on it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7136	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to join me seamlessly in yesterday's debate on the urgent question concerning child care check. One was yesterday on the financialability of the childcare check, although it is clear from the studies in question that this check can be financed. Today I am absolutely clear – and recently, since I have read Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger's statements in the "Standard" – why, as a responsible family minister, you are calling into question the future financing of the childcare check. This has a direct reference to the amendment of the family compensation law, which is under discussion today. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein keeps an issue of the "standard" up to date.]] Federal Minister! We have expressed our concern in the Committee on Family Affairs that in the future there may be a evasion of the provision that you have sole power over the forthcoming deposits in the reserve fund of the family tax compensation. In this we were confirmed, on the one hand, by the fact that § 40 para. 1 and the new wording of § 40 para. 9 allow a different interpretation, and secondly, by yesterday's statement by the Minister of Finance Edlinger on the budget violation law, which was that he no longer understands that in some pots there are funds that would actually have to be available to the budget. Today I read the following: that Mr Finanzminister Edlinger has proposed – and that is what he has specified – to reduce the subsidies to the family compensation fund, i.e. to reduce the employer's contribution from 4.5 per cent to 3.5 per cent. So it's quite clear: If the inflows to the fund are reduced in the future, there will be no more surpluses, and the reserve fund will no longer have that much money. And all of this you cover with this family burden compensation law, which is here today for decision-making, and also for superficial consideration – but only for superficial consideration! – almost gave our consent. Federal Minister! In the future, the budget will be rehabilitated at the expense of the Austrian families. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's clear, and that's documented now. Our fears in this direction are now documented and proven. Federal Minister! I think it's really bad: You have been able to get rid of the urgent request quite a bit yesterday by simply not answering the questions we have asked you. They have summarized, but the questions have not been answered. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Turned away – with a belly spot!]] But now it is clear and clear, now it is evident that the Austrian families have to contribute to the reorganisation of the budget over and over again and for many years. This is the so-called super-policy of the ÖVP for Austria's families. For this we have no understanding of the liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, we understand that parental education should be extended. We also find this proposal acceptable. Our reservations in the field of mediation go in the following direction: that, in fact, it should not be seen that these models should be non-profitable and cost-effective in the field of justice, that there should still be no professional image, no directives for them, and that, as you yourself have said, a new market should be created which cannot be controlled in any way at all. I do not wish to use the expression that urges me, in view of the fact that in this sensitive area there is a wild market, in this respect. I would now like to add to the third part of this amendment to the family compensation law our request, which we already wanted to have as committee in committee and for which you were still there at the time. But I understand now why You're making up your mind. You have, of course, had a knowledge gap and are probably already in agreement with your colleague Edlinger. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! I am deeply disappointed by your course of action!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7205	The motion for a resolution, which Mrs Haller has just read, is properly presented, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I now give the floor to Mrs Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach. Similarly, 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7229	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is very pleased to agree to this amendment to the Family Allowance Act 1967. Federal Minister! We would like to thank you, and we would like to thank the staff who have been so committed. I see you clearly in this section 40 as the temple keeper of the family compensation fund. I have also talked to Mrs Haller about this, but she just reads it somewhere else. [[Abg. Haller: You are missing the overview! What do you say about Federal Minister Edlinger's project? Do you agree?]] It is clear in it and is absolutely to be understood in such a way that these funds are reserved exclusively for families. In my term of office as Federal Minister, I have already done everything I can to remove foreign financial burdens. Federal Minister Bartenstein has also done all he can to ensure that this has continued positively in this sense. [[Abg. Haller: You're always under a blanket with the SPÖ!]] The so-called small family package, which was decided and agreed in Bad Aussee in January 1999, has made it possible: We get 30 million schilling more resources for parenting, mediation and parental and child support. The results of the parent-child research show that parental education is one of the most important instruments for strengthening parental competence and family education and is thus the basis of primary prevention against various difficulties in the everyday parent-child situation. Parent education is also the answer to increasing individualization and pluralism in society. Traditional behaviors are becoming more and more helpful in the face of the complexity of new family forms of education. We want to accept the independence of the child and do everything we can to enable the child's personality to develop and grow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our goal is independent, competent personalities. I also see an unannounceable parental responsibility and would like to strengthen this parental competence, and above all, as mentioned above, prevention, especially in relation difficulties, developmental disturbances, and accompanying assistance for violence in children. On parental education, the information, self-reflection and exchange of experience are also to be noted in the group in order to reduce possible threshold fears. Often at the beginning, listening helps a mute listening. On-site parent education offers – also beyond puberty – have proved to be extremely helpful. We even have comprehensive educational counsellors, shell-sychological services and family advisory services with priority education, but if You have as close contact with the parent associations and with the child and youth lawyers as I am, then in the many desperate calls and consulting discussions you will also be confronted with questions that cannot be solved in a single conversation. These parents find waiting times and consolation talks quite horrendous. But with more money, more qualified solutions and therapists can also be offered. The people seeking help will thank us, and problems with children must never be pushed into the long term. The second part of these additional funds, amounting to 30 million schillings, will be spent on mediation as well as on parental and child support. If emotional difficulties can be raised to an objective level, it is easier to achieve a solution competence. Vice versa is also ideally effective only if the parents of co-mediation are also subject to consultation. ==References====External links== In January 2000, we have the opportunity to volunteer in mediation throughout the district courts. The application of medial instruments in the context of family conflict is complete in accord with international trends. The Council of Europe Recommendation on Family Mediation calls on the Contracting States to offer mediation or other out-of-court conflict resolution methods to prevent or resolve disputes and, in particular, to find the best solution for children. Mediation is also in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7290	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do linschek!]] - Excuse me? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The emphasis is on "Do"!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for having some Carinthian connection, but I am not that firm yet. So: Don't touch it. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you forgive me. You're talking now. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7345	Da_te You now agree on how to pronounce my name, I can start. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that all of us who are sitting here in the House agree that there is at present an awfully high number of divorces and that this number is rising. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: It's getting even easier now!]] We agree, I believe, that in recent times there have been very many family tragedies either just before divorce or after divorce. We are also likely to agree on the fact that there should be a parenting or partnering to meet this and to remedy it. I also believe that families today are exposed to such a variety of values in society that they are often totally overwhelmed. Parenting will certainly be of greater importance soon, but it always depends on how to handle it and what it will do. Parents or parents who become parents can now make use of this parenting. The mediation provided for in this area is a new form of mediation. It comes from the United States, like so much, and will certainly play a role in future divorce, environmental and also in rental issues. The question is: Is it faster and cheaper for the persons concerned than the case law we currently have? Federal Minister! They have announced in the Committee that mediation will take place from 1. ==References====External links== January 2000, offered throughout Austria. In this year's budget, 4 million schillings will be increased to 30 million schillings per year, between 5 and 10 million schillings and 20 to 25 million schillings for parental education. They also said that there would be no exclusive federal funding but that co-financing should be sought with the countries. However, Mr Federal Minister, there is, in principle, no directive yet, and co-financing by the countries is not guaranteed to date. The approach is certainly all right, but the presentation lacks clarity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a lack of clarity in the support measures, in parental education and mediation, but also – as my colleague Haller has already mentioned – in the use of the funds of the reserve fund by the Federal Finance Agency, because access to the FLAF and the reserve fund, Mr. Federal Minister, should, in my opinion, be reserved exclusively for the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: All your opinion!]] - Yes, there's an opinion. If your colleague, Mr Edlinger, announces that he will save something in the course of the tax reform, and he wants to save by practically reducing the contributions from 4.5 to 3.5 percent, this is relatively simple for him. The Red Minister says he saves the Black Minister, and vice versa, it is probably the same. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The mediation training is financed entirely from the FLAF, which I do not fully understand, because the Minister of Justice is completely inaccurate. However, it is simply not clear to me why the introduction of mediation for the Federal Ministry of Justice should be neutral or even cost-effective, and the entire budgetary effort is practically due to your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister, because this means that the training and training of the family judges will be financed from the FLAF to future mediators. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, both novels are missing concrete indications of the creation of a legal profession for mediation. In principle, anyone can register today and be trained as a mediator. What will come out is in the stars. I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7452	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dr Mertel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7476	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Haller, it is always very good, of course, if a politician, a Member of Parliament, a Member of Parliament hears the grass growing, but I cannot understand it in this case, because there is something else in this provision. It states that this agency is obliged to put the money in such a way that it increases as much as possible. This is the task of this agency that we have used. It has the task of managing the public debt and investing the funds optimally. Of course, it also has the task of taking up loans, but above all it has to make the best use of funds such as those in the reserve fund. I also cannot understand the concerns regarding the right of access of the Minister of Finance, because the Minister of Finance is neither a member of the Board of Directors nor a member of the Supervisory Board of this agency. It merely has the supervision of this agency, which is a distributed service. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The influence can be very high!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He can turn them off!]] I do not think that Mrs Haller's fears, which she has held in a committee statement, are shared by the Minister for Family Affairs. I therefore think that a motion for a resolution is unnecessary. I asked the Minister for Family Affairs during the Committee meeting whether this committee was of interest to him, but he did not. He also swung with his shoulders on interviews by Mrs Haller because he did not feel the legal text as if an intervention right existed in his rights. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But he can clear the fund! He may not do anything against the charge!]] I think that Mrs Haller is deeply disappointed with Mr Bartenstein's injustice, because the Fund's resources are still intended. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you mediating now?]] That is my view of things, and I also think it is right that family resources are intended. Today's FLAG-Novelle is in a close context – and I would like to stress this already – with the matrimonial law amendment law that we passed two days ago. This allowed the first legal recognition of the conflict control model mediation. However, this novelle is also directly related to that part of the family package – we call it "Bad Ausseer Family Package" – which has and is intended to regulate the flexibilization of the karenz time, with that part that we – I assume – will decide still in July. Sad reality is that violence occurs in the family, especially in connection with divorces and as a result of divorces, and that, unfortunately, violence – which is most unfortunate – is often seen as a means of resolving conflict. I am thinking, for example, of the incident in Salzburg, the five people It took life. I believe that everything must be done to prevent such actions. We are, of course, particularly concerned with the children concerned, who are particularly affected by violence and divorce. Violence can and must not be a means of resolving conflict! We need to take into account the experiences already gained from mediation, which already has some project runs behind it. I also believe that we need to integrate the results of scientific follow-up research into our projects in the future. As far as parental education is concerned, I would like to stress that the aim is to strengthen parental education and, of course, to promote non-violent education, which is important to me. From my point of view, it is also about efficiently supplementing the previous parental education offers by means of an information campaign, increasing the image of parenting, anchoring them especially in the consciousness of the population, and increasing the involvement of fathers in parental education offers and motivating them to participate. Finally, another thought: I believe that this law is an initiative for the establishment of new, forward-looking fields of work and careers for our society, and it is through the expansion of mediation and parental education that many people have new career opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7610	Mrs Klara Motter has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7631	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a lunch break, but a few colleagues are still there, and I thank you for it, because it is an important matter that we are discussing now. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not want to address the content so much, because that has already been done by my previous speakers, I would just like to say that we Liberals are voting in favour of the Government's proposal: The Federal Law, which amends the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967. 30 million more promotions for marriage should be seen as positive. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Marriage is not promoted!]] It is to be welcomed that, from the year 2000, mediation as well as parental and child support in divorce and separation situations as well as parental education measures will be promoted. Is it true now, Mr. Collegue? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's more about divorces!]] Nevertheless, allow me to criticise the bill. The draft is clearly lacking in clarity, both in the promotion of parental education and mediation as well as in the use of the resources of the reserve fund by means of federal funding. It is also not clear which institutions are involved and which institutions benefit from these support measures. There are also no specific statements on how countries are co-financing, but this co-financing by the countries is important to provide effective, targeting parenting. Mr Minister, I ask you to settle this with the countries in a balanced manner. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7689	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7711	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the past, allow me a critical remark, Mr Federal Minister, which has nothing to do with the legislative text itself. We have had several debates which have affected this small family package or other parts of the small family package, and we have already heard very early that you are also in favour of introducing certain rules. But at that time we have been assured again and again: The small family package is not divisible, it comes all the way, or it doesn't come at all. This was particularly affected at the time by the regulation on the increased care allowance for women who cannot or do not want to call the name of the child father. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That wasn't in Bad Aussee!]] It was already clear that you, Mr Federal Minister, agreed. But for a party in this house, for the ÖVP, it was clear, that can't come. And when it became clear that it was coming, it was said that it was only in the package, in the small family package, and that can't be shared. Now I note that the small family package has been shared, namely in the tranche we are discussing today, and in a tranche which is not being dealt with during this part-session, but in the next. That was the small critical note that has nothing to do with the content of this revision, which we decide today. We are also positive about the current novel of the Greens. Yes, I see it as a step forward that parenting is supported by mediation, that it is operated and financed by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I have already said in the Committee that I would like to have clear agreements or coordination with other public bodies involved in mediation. I can also do something about Mr Graf's suggestion that you have to work on this professional image of mediation or mediator. However, I am not convinced that mediation should only be a welcome professional extension for lawyers. I would also like to describe training requirements that are necessary to have really good mediators and mediators. That is what I wish, and at this point I will be working. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Here we are with you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Dolinschek, who described this in this way, I do not have too high a expectations – and I would also like to warn against such expectations – that what we decide here today can be excluded from the family tragedies of the future. I would rather mean – and it would be a great merit if we could achieve this – that through mediation we can better accompany the very painful separation processes in the small details. But the great family tragedies and conflicts that occur very often also in the case of separation, we will, I fear, not be able to eliminate them. This hope should not be linked to the expectation that one has of mediation, otherwise these expectations would only be disappointed. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: After all, mediation achieves more than 50 percent common solutions!]] I also believe that mediation can do its good, but I believe that it is more about small things, and above all about those who are concerned with separation, who almost always stay on the road, namely the children. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With the right of directions, this expectation was awakened, and it did not come!]] – Okay, but in this case, Mr Graf, I do not have these expectations. I do not know what the Federal Minister will say about this. I have only noticed that Mr Dolinschek has referred to this with regard to the great family tragedy, so I have rather associated the assumption that from your side comes the great expectation. I wanted to make use of my contribution to the debate in general to warn against the fact that too great expectations are being attached to it. Nevertheless, it is positive to be able to improve a little in the small details of these very painful separation processes, not with all but with many of these separations. I do not want to address parenting again now, because with the funds – be honest – that we spend on making them available, we will not be able to achieve comprehensive parenting, regardless of whether it is necessary and useful. Of course – or hopefully – the resources that are spent in this area are also used usefully if it is true in the context. These have also been mentioned in part in the Committee. I would like to make it clear once again: Our agreement is valid, but please do not try to link what we are doing with all too high expectations. Then, at least in small, it could be a useful contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7801	President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7823	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Haller, in particular, has taken the changed § 40 of the Family Tax Compensation Act to hear the grass grow, as you, Mrs Mertel, have called it. There's nothing to it. It is all about, Mrs Haller, that the future surpluses of the family compensation fund are best expected. It is still true that according to § 40 para. 1 of the Fund's FLAG not only owns its own legal personality, but is also managed by the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family. It is also not the case that the Federal Ministry of Finance is given a co-competence in the charge, but only the Federal Finance Agency. This is also useful because in today's volatility of markets it is said to react quickly. There will be considerable funds to be invested there. The aim is to achieve the best possible interest rates. This is in the sense of the covenant, but it is especially in the sense of the families. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haller: Then you can agree to our request!]] On your note, Mrs Haller, that Mr Finanzminister Edlinger said yesterday that he did not fit several pots, and in particular to your remark that he is quoted in today's "standard" that contributions to the family compensation fund are reduced from 4.5 to 3.5 percent at present: I referred the same "standard" as you – to the paper, not to something else. [[Abg. Dolinschek: What do you mean?]] As I said, it's quite neutral. [[Abg. Böhacker: Neutral is good!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In addition, I say that this intention of the Minister of Finance – he is not doing it for the first time – probably not for the last time, but it fits into today's debate – is a volume of no less than... – If you listen to me briefly, Mrs Haller, then you will probably agree with what I am now saying, in exceptional circumstances. [[Abg. Haller: How was the Minister of Finance yesterday?]] The volume would correspond to a reduction of no less than 9 billion schilling. I emphasize the conjunctiv. A reduction in FLAF contributions by one percentage point would therefore cost the Austrian families 9 billion schilling. We then needed to stop thinking about the financialability of the now implemented family tax reform. She wouldn't be eligible for funding. FLAF does not have these surpluses – neither in 1999 nor in 2000. I find this accusation by the Minister of Finance – I say so openly here; he did not consult me before he gave this interview – twice incomprehensible because it was by Mrs Prammer – I remembered it when she supported me here on the government bank yesterday in the debate on the urgent request of the liberals; not [[Abg. Böhacker: Two-part government!]] They were, but Mrs Partik-Pablé, who put forward this request, gave an incentive to make the rent dependent on income in the future, not to grant 5 565 S per month, but an amount somewhere between 6 000 S and 14 000 S. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] I do not know, but Mrs Prammer said to a weekly newspaper that the average would be 7 742 p.m., so much, according to her calculations, would make up the karenz money on average in the future. This proposal by Mrs Prammer alone would burden the budget and FLAF on today's legal basis with 3.8 billion schilling. So what I do not understand is that on the one hand, from the same government group, the proposal to significantly reduce contributions to the FLAF and thus even endanger the family tax reform, but on the other hand, proposals are made to leave this FLAF at billions, which, to my great surprise, is not only contradicted by the Minister of Finance, but is even welcomed. That doesn't fit! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already said that these desires of the Minister of Finance are not new. I expect them to be in the future too, after all, we will soon have elections, but I clearly reject this advance. A budget recovery at the expense of the families is not in question for me! For this I am not available, ladies and gentlemen of the House, and I hope you will not either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last: Ladies and gentlemen, I can reassure you: It was a decision by the President, not by me, to deal with these FLAG and FLAG points today. Those points, which originally fall within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs, follow in a few days. This has no deeper causes. The karenz time account and also the new regulation of the point that the name of the father is not necessarily necessary in the application of the grant to the benefit money, all of this will be negotiated in the House in a few weeks and, I assume, will also be decided. In any case, I am fully in favour of this decision by the Federal Government, which I finally wanted to make. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7935	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Steibl is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e7960	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to refer to one of the most important points in this family compensation law, namely parenting. The desire for a harmonious family life and a functioning partnership is on the top of the scale of values for many people. This also confirms the youth report, which will be discussed as the next item on the agenda. On the other hand, we know about the increasing divorce rates and the increasing willingness to violence also in the family. This discrepancy between desire and reality shows how important and how necessary it is to go towards prevention and work, and especially in this context, parenting can be an important factor for partnering. I would really like to thank Mr Bartenstein very much on the part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the initiative he has taken, that he has actively tried to ensure that this proposal has been made, because I think it is for the benefit of the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The need for this is also recognised by the fact that many countries have already made preliminary work in this regard. I would just like to mention that, for example, in Styria, there is a network of all adult education institutions dealing with this subject to work together and to approach the target group. That is why it is important because this target group does not always admit openly that it is in need of information and wants to use seminars, for example. However, I would like to speak on another point, which unfortunately was no longer feasible during this part-session. This is something that was also discussed and decided in the Bad Aussee family package, namely, the free movement of students and apprentices in foreign accommodation. I don't understand. ==References== In 1998, Mr. Edlinger, Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer and Mrs. Mertel signed this and thus gave their consent. I must admit that Mrs Mertel has really made a great effort to find another way of bringing this request to the last committee meeting, but unfortunately she has not succeeded. For me, it is incomprehensible that a Minister of State Edlinger and a Minister for Foreign Affairs Prammer have signed this, but then nothing will be implemented. I don't think that's all right. But I think that fits into a certain line, because the Minister of Finance will be in the "Standard" of 8. In June, he referred to families with small children as the "G"stoppers. I don't think that's how you can formulate it. And even mothers and fathers who go to Karenz, according to SPÖ, are "devilly seduced". Next point. For us too, it is incomprehensible why one does not go further, why one does not at least get into discussion – there is not really a discussion by the SPÖ – about the "carnation money for all". This would be one of the most important points for the families in our country, in addition to the free movement of students and apprentices. I would ask the SPÖ to take one step further on these issues, to enter into negotiations so that these points can be implemented for the benefit of our families and children.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8015	Mrs Bures has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8036	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, Mrs Steibl: They have forgotten an essential sentence which has been stated among these twelve additional points, which have been agreed and signed, namely that it depends on the financial development of the FLAF. [[Abg. Steibl: Who manages FLAF: Mr Edlinger or Mr Bartenstein?]] In my opinion, it is the most appropriate task of a Minister of Finance to ensure that measures which are put in place are also covered by the corresponding financial resources. We know from other areas what it is like to make proposals, but then we do not know where to take the money. I think it is a very strange situation that Parliament – especially when it comes to conflict resolution and conflict settlement models, that is, mediation – should perhaps take over the task of a mediator between two members of the government. Mr Bartenstein! I suppose you won't need a mediator or a mediator. [[Abg. Steibl: No, he knows for himself what he wants!]] If you go to a coffee with Minister Edlinger, arrange for those who read what is in the newspaper, I do not think this can be the task of the House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I think that this regulation, namely the provision of funds for parental education, is a point of order, and that has also been emphasised by my previous speakers. I believe that parental education, which should help to deal with conflicts, is also particularly important in parent-child relations. Today's change is a small mosaic in an entire family package. I would just like to remind you of the measures taken to protect against violence in the family, to protect women and children who are exposed to violence in the family. Due to decades of information work mainly by women politicians in this House, it has succeeded in creating a public awareness that really supports the measures put in this context. For example, the right of directions against violent offenders has been a very necessary measure, as has victim protection measures, the expansion of women's homes et cetera. Today, a small, additional contribution is being made, with the focus on young people wanting to live in an equal relationship in which the division of work between men and women is fair and work and family compatible. In this family package, the flexibilization of the karenz period is therefore a very important point. On the basis of our overall family-political view, we Socialists and Socialists can give our support to this package, with an amendment which I would like to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8116	The amendment which has just been read is properly filed, also supported accordingly, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Platter has also spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8141	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, of course, women are talking about changing the family compensation fund, but allow me to make a few comments as well. [[Abg. Steibl: Thank God also a man!]] It is gratifying that more financial resources will be available for parenting and mediation in the future. I would like to comment briefly on parenting because I know in what difficult situation parents often find themselves in what difficult situations families can get in. In this context, I would like to refer in particular to the addiction prevention models. I know what happens in some families from my former professional activity – I was once a drug addict – if a child, for whatever reason, is in debt or indebted, gets into drug dependence. This is not only an extremely difficult situation for drug addicts themselves, but often the parents and the whole family are under incredible pressure. At the beginning, when consumption is more limited to light drugs but a change of behaviour is already apparent, the parents often differ in their opinion as to why this child has suddenly changed. However, if a child, a youth or a youth from this vicious circle no longer comes out and finally takes on hard drugs, this will become a huge burden for parents, for the whole family, but also for the closer circle of acquaintances. School success suggests that there is often a tremendous change in behaviour, the external appearance is changing, the circle of acquaintances is changing, and sometimes too little money is available. In many cases, there are differences between parents about whether or not to provide additional financial support to the drug dependent child, and regrettably it is not rare for the drug dependent child to steal even his own parents in such emergency situations. Unfortunately, such tragedies – often to a far greater extent than one assumes – occur very often, and there are, of course, not only major conflicts between parents, but there is a danger of breaking up the whole family. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be help! It must not only help the drug dependent child or youth, but also help the parents. Parents must ask themselves: How do I deal with this problem? How do I deal with the drug dependent child, and how do I deal with my own partner? – Especially in such cases, the addiction prevention models are invaluable in the context of parental education. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This can provide the parents with truly valuable help. Since I am talking about drug addiction and also about the follow-up to drug use, I would like to say clearly today and here that the release of drugs, including the so-called easy drugs, is not the right way! I have no understanding at all of this when the Liberals, the Greens and also some Social Democrats repeatedly support the release of these light drugs, and for the fact that the Greens, the Liberals and also the Socialists in the European Parliament are constantly in favour of the release of light drugs and even demand it again and again. The ÖVP says a clear no to such intentions, a clear no to drug release! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want drugs to be acquired in our country in shops. We do not want Austria to become a drug dealer's paradise. But what we want is to protect our children, our students, our young people from drugs. We want the drug addict to be helped out of their addiction. We want the parents of drug dependent children to be given the best possible support, and we also want dealers who drive our youth into drug addiction to be severely punished. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Parenting with the focus on addiction prevention is the right way. Therapy instead of punishment is the right recipe for addiction diseases, and severe penalties for drug dealers can only be the logical consequence of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8195	Mr Müller is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8217	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Family Minister, I apologize! [[Calls: Minister of Finance]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He would also be a good finance minister!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The main content of the planned innovation can be described with increased parenting to increase educational competence. I really think this approach is very important and correct: Precautions in the form of parental education, namely how to prevent violence in the family, as well as information on other dangers in our society, such as drug abuse, which Mr Platter has already mentioned. However, I believe that alcohol abuse can certainly be seen as being the same in this context. These precautions, this information, should be an important part of family policy. We must be aware that the education of children and thus the transfer of values is an essential achievement for our society. Studies show that about three quarters of the Austrians believe that one needs a family to be happy. Partner and family satisfaction are generally the first priority for the Austrians when it comes to assessing their subjective life satisfaction. In increasing the offer of parental education courses, it must be taken into account, on the one hand, that the offer is made in a wide variety of ways so that parents can use this offer accordingly. As examples, support in crisis situations, family advice and prevention should be mentioned in this context. High house! The mediation or parental and child support in divorce and separation situations is particularly important. Under divorce, during which a parent is excluded, children often suffer for years, and it is very difficult for children without additional care to overcome divorce-related difficulties. Therefore, social democrats are an important concern for us in this extended care offer in the form of child and parent support. I would like to point out the importance of the proposed enlargements, but I think that it should be taken into account for better financial staff. Finally, I would like to stress the opportunity to make the best possible investment of the Reserve Fund for Family Aids. As the reserve fund is expected to have surpluses from the year 2000, this measure should be seen as an essential contribution to the exercise of fiscal responsibility. I hope that FLAF resources will never be used for speculation purposes, and I am confident that any risk will be excluded from the trust of the professionals of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8267	Mrs Buder has also been mentioned on the floor. Similarly, 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8289	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I too think it is welcome that mediation is promoted by this change of law, because we know that in Austria 34 percent of the marriages are divorced, of which 18 000 to 20 000 are children. And it is these affected children, but also their parents who need special help and a special support! In the event of divorce, mediation can help the children to show that their parents are capable, responsible people who love their children and do not leave them alone. Through mediation, it often also succeeds in saving the children harmful loyalty conflicts, and mediation often succeeds in reaching a cooperative relationship instead of a destructive counterpart. Today, the goal of divorce mediation is to promote cooperation between the parties. One tries to reach out and convey the consciousness that a couple who divorce try to stay parents. The requirement for mediation is voluntary access. The mediation presupposes that the parties wish to find a settlement, it requires a willingness to negotiate, but also a capacity to negotiate. Mediation is not a past process, it is future-oriented and it is also target and time-oriented. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To date, mediation has been used far too little. It should not be the case in the future that there is a competitive thinking between the lawyer and the mediator. If you finance a mediation privately today, this costs 800 S to 1 200 S per partner; Of course, star mediators demand more. Five to seven meetings of two hours are necessary to achieve the goals set. So far, only very small funds have been provided for this, Mr Federal Minister, and I think it is good that you will have more resources at your disposal in the future. In my opinion, however, it is also welcome if you involve the countries in co-financing, because I think we are all called upon to make the best possible for those affected. I would like to mention briefly how long mediation has been in place. The Stone Age woman, who at the time was able to stop two ancient hunters from beating the skulls because each of them accused the produced buffalo for himself and his family, was already successfully mediating at the time. Mediation is as old as the history of humanity itself, but it has gained a meaning in this century and has assumed an extent that can no longer be overlooked in social policy. Mediation conveys a conflict resolution potential from which our society will surely benefit in the long run. Therefore, this change of law is very welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8347	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and we are now voting on the draft law in 1767. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Dr. Mertel, Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach and comrades. There is also a request from Mr Haller and Mr Comrades for a separate vote. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Haller and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 39c para. 1 to 4. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall therefore immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Members of the Haller and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 39c para. 5 to be introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Mertel, Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach and comrades also have an amendment concerning § 39c Abs. 5 to be introduced. If you would like to accept this amendment, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote with regard to the Z 2 as amended by the Government's proposal. In case of consent, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall be voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft law a third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on ensuring the commitment of the Family Allowance Fund and the Reserve Fund. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning the damage suffered by students after closure of the Mozarteum (1968 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8462	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. . I would like to point out that there are probably only two words on this, so that we will vote again soon. No reporting is requested on this point. We are immediately entering the debate. Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8493	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The excitement surrounding the closure of the Mozarteum has now settled. I think that the case of Mozartism should give all of us some thought. The request I made at the time has been aimed at the shame of the students. We now know that there can be quite drastic negative consequences for students when student periods are exceeded because of the rules on savings packages, and it is also known that, especially in the case of artistic disciplines, overruns of standard study times are almost the rule, because these studies are very difficult and require high requirements for students. It has now been notified to us in an answer to a question that no cases have yet been known in which students have already suffered an obvious disadvantage. However, I would also like to ask the Minister for Family Affairs to use his weight within the framework of the government and, in any case, within the next legislative period, whatever role he will have in order to solve these cases quickly, unbureaucratically and in a way of accommodatingly, if there are still cases of students suffering from a financial or other disadvantage. Among the consequences I draw – and these go a little beyond the occasion, and there I miss determined steps by the Federal Government – is a comprehensive review of buildings with regard to phenomena that are summarized as Sick Building Syndrome. I think that in the future, especially in public-sector institutions, in ministries, schools, universities, in buildings where people often stop all day – even in Parliament, yes – one should be a little more careful and do not pay attention to the incidence of symptoms of disease. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: In Parliament!]] In the past, there has already been a kind of reflex to refer certain complaints, such as headaches, immunodeficiencies, to the realm of imagination, to the realm of exaggeration. But I believe that the new findings about the Sick Building Syndrome speak very much about recognizing this as a serious disease and acting quickly before such an uncertainty occurs, as was the case with the Mozarteum – a case that also brought Austria to international headlines. So, better review of Sick-Building syndrome and faster research when such clues occur. Secondly, I ask the question as to how it was possible for a building in which young people were trained to have not been taken off by the construction authority for more than 18 years and why also the labour inspection, why the protective bodies that had to care for the interests of the workers, the students, have so long caught the warnings in the wind. I would also like to ask my question to: She is now a member of the Federal Government – certainly not solely responsible, but nevertheless –: Is there any similar cases? – We do not know, and we do not know whether a comprehensive review has taken place since then with regard to the legal conformity and health of buildings. One of the last points is also addressed to the Minister for Health, but I hope that it may be discussed in the government as well, Mr Minister. It is stressed here in the answer to the question that the incidence of cancers, leukemia et cetera, is not related to this building. – That can be so. I do not rule out the fact that it is a coincidence that such cases of cancer occur in a large number of cases. However, it is clear that, in such a case, those concerned are, of course, particularly uncertain. This is really human only too understandable. I have come to know in this connection, and I know that there is a great deal of complaint in the field of epidemiology about the statistical foundations of work. It will not be in Austria – unfortunately not! – regularly and systematically assess where and under what conditions people have an increased risk of disease or have a higher probability of staying healthy. One explains this by avoiding panic. Therefore, the questions of where a person lives, where a person works, and how he looks out with the appropriate likelihood of illness are not actually addressed. Federal Minister! I think, however, that we should not push legitimate concerns about diseased or healthy living conditions into the area of panic, but should seriously deal with these epidemiological foundations. I therefore call on you, as a member of the Federal Government, to work within the Federal Government to improve the working opportunities for occupational doctors and for epidemiologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8528	Mrs Parfuss has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8550	Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of Mrs Petrovic's speech, I can actually keep my comments very short. We are also not aware of a case that leads to a study extension from the title closing of the Mozarteum. You also know, as I believe, that the current legal basis for extending the duration of the study period is entirely sufficient in the event of unforeseen events. If a case actually occurs, this can be done in the application way. Of course, we do not agree with your request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8583	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and we are now voting on the Committee's request to take note of its report in 1968. If you want to take note of this report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. 7. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Third Report (III-182 of Supplements) of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family on the situation of young people in Austria (1965) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the petition (PET-46) on youth desires presented by Mr Werner Amon (1966) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the petition (PET-44) Youth Promotion Laws", presented by Member Gabriele Binder, Mag. Kurt Gaßner and Brigitte Tegischer (1967)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8653	We shall now proceed to points 7 to 9 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. In the debate as the first speaker, Mr Graf has been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8681	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! We have discussed youth policy or the design of youth policy in sub-committees, based on a report by the Minister for Family Affairs, which has been presented and to which it must be admittedly acknowledged that he is indeed a very proper youth report, as measured by the task, of statistical preparation, but also of the preparation of the facts. Of course, it is not possible to read much from this report simply by drawing on the facts, but it is likely that the conclusions to be drawn from the data will be assessed. And we have to note that, in our criticism of the current youth policy, we have in fact been strengthened. I would like to make a few points in the short time, especially the related youth work. I do not want to go so far as to say, as was done in the Committee, that the Minister is referring to the presentation of the facts in this youth report, perhaps to crushing the related youth work. That's not the case. But there's a sense. There is a need for a certain reorganisation in this area, a new momentum in the dusty structures of youth policy, in particular as regards the allocation of funds, and it is very good to have a youth report which essentially strengthens the position of freedom. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, we must, of course, see, in part, the social-political environment, the party-political environment, in which this youth report is located. We must note that there is a Party-politicized youth work in the association. In this respect, criticism comes from the ÖVP, but also from other circles and, in particular, very massive criticism from us. You won't be able to discuss them away. It also manifests itself in daily politics, in the great policy that it is in this area to influence party politics, for a few reasons which are quite simple to present. If there are no rights to money, money, one depends on arbitrariness, often on the arbitrariness of fewer or some. Then, of course – and as an Austrian learnt, you know that – you stream into party politics. It then happens that there is also a conflict of competence at ministerial level – not at the Ministry of Minister Bartenstein. It then happens that a German chancellor, according to sports policy, according to cultural policy and after senior policy, is trying to influence the area of youth policy as well. He does this by starting to transfer competences that are clearly distributed under the Federal Ministry Act to the Federal Chancellery. He is setting up a youth advisory board, although there is already a youth forum and advisory council in the family ministry. This Youth Advisory Council has been formed in order to simply act party-politically in this area. Who is surprised, then, that, I say salopp, the left youth associations are trying to form the Federal Chancellor, there they are, but the conservative youth associations are closing up to this idea and continue to stay at the Ministry of Family Affairs? [[Abg. Technique: All have been invited!]] This is where the root of the evil lies, and I believe it is necessary that we finally seek a party-political unbundling in youth policy, that we equip youth policy with legal rights in terms of money, and that we finally depoliticize money and move away from the politicalized, party-politicized youth organizations. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We've got 5 on the 5th. In November 1998, an own-initiative proposal on youth promotion was submitted, and it was then allocated to the Constitutional Committee, Federal Chancellor's Office, without the agreement of the Minister of Family Affairs. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Very youthful you are not anymore!]] Here we must finally make a disbandment, and when it comes to youth policy, then the interests of youth policy are bundled, and where they belong, namely the Minister of Youth and not the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany! You have to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you not also senior speakers of the FPÖ?]] If it is still surprising that the rate of frustration is so high? This study shows that 40 percent of all young people participating in any model of participation actually get out of it, because they have no means of co-determination. In the Committee, all political groups have become aware of the reduction in the electoral age. This has been clearly expressed. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution on the reduction of the electoral age, and we will see in the vote whether the opinion of the Committee is the same here in plenary. [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that if you want to grant young people rights, and if you want young people to be heard, then you have to give them the most crucial right, namely the right to vote. As long as the youth is only "parked" and hidden in any advisory bodies, it will escape from this process for so long. This kind of youth policy is not enough! I have always said here: The argument that youth will not participate in elections is no later than 14. June. We've known since the 14th century. In June, there was a great degree of conspicuousness among adults, and this is not greater among young people. If people feel that they cannot really participate, they will not go to the choice as the EU election has shown. Let us finally give the youth the right to vote to a certain extent! Then something will change on this point too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8782	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Amon has also been mentioned on the floor. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8806	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, and your House very much for this extremely good report on the situation of young people, which really explains all those areas in a particularly detailed way, which he was commissioned to present. It should not deal solely with issues of related youth work and the financial support needed in this context, but also with the leisure behaviour of young people and the question of the participation of young people. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Tegischer, in this context for the extremely positive management of the committee. After all, we have spent two half days dealing with the report on the situation of young people and dealing with all the experts very intensively. In my opinion, it was a very good and constructive discussion that we held here. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mother.]] The report shows very clearly that we have a youth who is not defensive. It is not a youth who is attached to the no-future idea, but rather to the pro-future idea. It is a youth who is very well aware of quality and performance, and it is above all a youth – especially positive for political youth organisations – who is politically interested and better informed than the young people of the 1960s and 1970s, because the level of information today is unevenly higher by the new means of communication. I am also saying this because the young people have become very sensitive in their consumer behaviour, which is also reflected in the report. It lives by the principle of "shopping for a better world", according to the principle of very targeted consumption. It responds very sensitively when it is known that, for example, products have been produced by cheap child labour, and immediately begins boycotting such products. So we are dealing with a very political, a very critical youth. However, I would also like to address what Mr Graf has said, because, as the chairman of a party-political youth organization, it is of course important to me, as we have in the future, to design related youth work and youth promotion, which is not negative, as you have said. I think it is quite positive that there is also party-political youth work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is equally clear, however, that this is not the only form of interconnected youth work, but that there are a number of interconnected youth organisations which are in no way Party-political. I am thinking, for example, of the Alpenvereinsjugend, of Confessional Youth Organizations or of the Land Jugend. I would ask you to also note that there is an essential part in the related youth work, which is not party-political. I believe that we should, and this is also reflected in the resolution we have tabled, put youth work on legal terms, particularly as regards the financing of youth work, interconnected and open youth work, and that we need a legal youth representation in the future. I believe that we can no longer find the results with the Bundesjugendring, as it stands today, because especially in view of the fact that we have an increasing problem with the generation agreement, it is necessary to have a strong youth representation. I believe that we need something like a legally established youth representation, in which as essential representations as the high school or also the federal student representation are involved. [[Abg. May. Peter: Mr Amon! A Chamber of Youth!]] [[Abg. Wabl: With pension rights!]] One thing is unthinkable to me – and here I turn to the coalition partner, to the social democrats – I really think it is impossible for the Federal Chancellor to oppose the Federal Ministry's law and, although there is a Federal Minister for Youth in the Federal Government, to set up a Youth Advisory Council, but unfortunately God – from your point of view "suffering God" – is now a shrinking board because there are only links there. [[Abg. Schieder: This has already been done by Klaus in the 1960s; Kreisky in the 1970s!]] [[Abg. Schieder: Klaus did this already in the 1960s!]] – Yes, but there was no youth minister back then. That's the difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I really think this is unnecessary provocation, and I think it would not be too positive from your point of view, if we were to set up an apprenticeship advisory board in the classroom or in other ministries, for example, a social advisory board. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This has already happened with Klaus! The secretaries called Alois Mock and Michael Graff!]] So this is an unnecessary provocation that has purely electoral motives against which we also defend ourselves. The Advisory Council is now a left-wing youth advisory board established by the party chairman of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the Young People's Party - there is a resolution and a committee comment - have carried out a youth desire that has at least signed 50,000 Austrian young people. In this we have dealt very intensively with the issue of the generation contract, the question of the insurance of pensions for those under 30 years old today, with the question of future investment in research, education and development. I believe that the resolution calling on the Federal Government to take into account in future the demographic situation in such a way as to ensure that the interests of young people in this country are not being dealt with in future legislative proposals, especially if there is a parliamentary survey which addresses the issue of the generation treaty. This is precisely the central issue for the years and decades to come, and we must not ignore this topic – as everyone here in the house bears a high responsibility – in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8919	Mrs Klara Motter has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8940	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Youth work, leisure work in Austria, as well as framework conditions, forms and effects of youth participation models are the priorities of the Third Report on the situation of young people in Austria, which is under debate today. The five-volume and a total of more than 1 000 pages of strong report not only presents a situational and needs analysis of youth and leisure work and analyses not only existing youth participation models, but also shows the possibilities of quality assurance and self-evaluation of related youth work. On the basis of a comparison of legal developments in the field of youth promotion in several European countries, suggestions have been drawn up for the further development of child and youth support in Austria. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we should pay particular attention to this work, because there are countries that are far ahead of us, which are still behind us. We should continue to take these suggestions very seriously in the future if, as I hope, we are now starting an efficient youth work. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is just a few of the content of the report, and we MEPs have had sufficient opportunity to deal with the subject matter in a subcommittee, the content, even with experts and experts. I would like to point out that this report is an excellent basis for discussion if we are to make a serious effort to improve all the youth work in our country. Unfortunately, I regret that the report has given little attention to gender-specific concerns and to these differences. Young people in schools, young people in the working world, especially young people in education and training, were also lacking. I hope that this will be taken into account in the next youth report. Minister! I am good things, because you have also assured us that this will happen. I hope and wish. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That doesn't say anything yet! Why are you doing good?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What happens to this material? What political conclusions will be drawn? Who is seriously responsible for achieving improvements in the youth sector at all levels? – I remember the words of Professor Dr. Pichler, co-author of the Youth Report, who said clearly: The conclusion to be drawn is left to the politicians. Ladies and gentlemen! That means we're all called. Whether our activities are in the communities, in the countries or in the federal government is not forward-looking, but it must all work together. If I recall that Mrs. Riepl, in part C of the report, pointed out to us that political policy decisions must be made that political education, more co-determination, should be achieved financially, that young people should be provided with appropriate spaces, that there should be youth representatives in all communities, that more public work and more awareness-raising should be done in adults for the interests of young people, then it is clear that: This can only work in a joint work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, if I consider part D and remember the statements made by Professor Dr. Pichler, I have to say that there is ignition. To get hold of these will take us the next time. When I think of a law on youth promotion, which we certainly need, I see enough problems coming to mind. Nevertheless, we have the duty to solve them. They are to be solved if there is sufficient political will when tactical party policy is put in the background and if no short-term thinking prevails. I would like to take a brief look at the law on youth promotion. Finally, the idea of promoting young people is to be welcomed. In our view, however, there are points of conflict and also wishes in concrete demands. I would like to explain this very briefly. If one wants to start from a priority promotion of activities to set priorities, it is a major obstacle to independent, spontaneous and broad youth work. Furthermore, funding only depends on the quality criteria to be established on an assessment basis poses problems for small youth organisations which cannot yet have solid structures. For as long as an organization cannot have an official staff, it is impossible to carry out extensive evaluation measures, and without them they will not receive funds. These groups have no chance of doing real youth work. The representation of youth interests by the Federal Youth Assembly, which is provided for in four ministerial bodies, is also to be questioned, because I do not think that four bodies, divided at ministerial level, can make themselves strong in promoting young people if they have no idea of what young people really need and what they do. This distribution would also be further complicated through bureaucratic structures. The basic support is to be welcomed, but it should not be too low. To use one third of the total funding, I consider it to be too small. Similarly, several years of service contracts in order to ensure continuity of work must not be exclusive, because youth work is extremely short-lived in our time. Ladies and gentlemen! It can still be discussed for a long time, even on other points, but my speaking time does not allow it. I would therefore like to conclude by expressing my hope that the many good ideas and good approaches in this comprehensive youth report can be achieved together.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e8988	Mrs Tegischer is now on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9009	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join with Mr Amon as the committee chairman. Cooperation with colleagues in the Committee was very constructive, despite some emotional levels. I would like to thank you for the open dialogue and the lively and qualified discussion. To this end, I would like to stress this explicitly, I am sure that the active involvement and participation of those concerned, namely the representatives and experts of the youth organisations, has contributed. This should be exemplary for the future. For me, in these two days of discussions in the Subcommittee, the following have been crystallized: Of course, there has been controversy – and criticism of the criteria for funding has again been shown today. It is particularly important for us Social Democrats – for this we stand – that the existing umbrella association, the Bundesjugendring, be preserved and strengthened and that it does not take care of in an advisory council in the Federal Ministry. To the Youth Advisory Board at the Federal Chancellery. The Federal Chancellor shall carry out coordination tasks in the Government. I think he has only fulfilled his duty and also our constant call for more co-determination and participation. I don't see this as a competition, but it's... – It's about communication, and by talking, people come together, but that's not my... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But that's where he can inform the Minister!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If the chancellor doesn't talk to his ministers anymore, it's sad!]] I don't know if you can judge whether they did it or not. [[Abg. Mr Graf: He said in committee that he did not know anything about it! We've all heard that!]] It is also very important for us that basic support remains. A youth organisation can only work effectively if the basic costs are covered. This is particularly important for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Despite the controversy, we have succeeded in formulating a joint motion for a resolution. I would like to stress that the development of child and youth participation projects will take place and co-determination and co-decision will be given. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I would like to refer briefly to Mr Graf's request for a reduction in the electoral age if he gives me a hearing. In the motion for a resolution we have the following passage: We want to carry out an analysis of the development of political and professional co-determination by age. This means that we are very likely to reduce the age of elections. You know exactly, you're running open doors with me. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then you will vote! In any case, we have a vote on it.]] - Who knows? It is particularly gratifying that a separate item on the agenda for the discussion of Question No 44 on Youth Protection and Youth Promotion Laws has been provided, and also for the motion for a resolution No 46 by Mrs Amon. I am pleased that the motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously. I would just like to make one point because other colleagues will address it. It is about youth participation in the communities and in the countries. I have found in my mailbox today the "activities report of the Austrian Town Government" and was disappointed that there are a lot of committees, such as the Committee on Gardening and Parking, but not a Youth Committee. He's mentioned, but he doesn't have any members. I'm very sorry. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That's to read. It's inside. It is particularly important to me that the municipalities, the countries and the cities also contribute to the fact that young people are really actively involved and can also take part in the decision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and MEPs of the Greens.]] The motion for a resolution on the Youth Report is for us a basis for a uniform Federal Youth Promotion Act, and I hope that in the next legislative period it will be taken into account and there will be such a law. We are going in the right direction with the three motions for resolutions, which we have always talked about and in which we wanted to move forward. To make politics not only for our youth, but also politics with our youth. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9118	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9139	Mr President. - Yes, I've also clattered. [[Abg. Koppler: The oillinger has also clattered!]] – Minister of State! High house! It has already been noted that the Committee's work together with the experts was very positive and quite productive. However, it should not be too speedy to draw conclusions, as Mr Graf, for example, did, as the government parties did after the Subcommittee. Mr Graf did so in that he came to the speaker's desk and reduced the very diverse debate on participation and participation of young people as well as on the issue of age-olds to a request that is actually more "just for show". This is a resolution, Mr Graf, which we all know has no more recipients, because it will probably not be possible – even if the Federal Minister is doing this seriously and is about to start working on it tomorrow – to decide on this law during this legislative period in Parliament. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It is already being worked on! Forerunnerous Obedience!]] It's already working on it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can all agree!]] I'm already excited about what's going to happen to us in this legislative period. I would be interested, Minister of State, if we were already working on reducing the electoral age when we would have the law in committee. [[Call for the call.]] – We’ll get it already, the request also provides for it. I do not want to say one thing, namely that one believes that young people's participation is taken into account by reducing the electoral age, whether this is only in the municipality. It is, or is generally, the same as we call for it. That won't be enough. For me, the positive quality of this report can also be seen, among other things, by the fact that participation of children and young people is described as a multi-faceted process, which in principle can already start in kindergarten – there are also examples – and should be continued in school. The report also refers - I think this is absolutely positive in this report - to the fact that participation in school is completely inadequate. You can still show the school partnership so much. Read this report! This is a sobering assessment of participation in schools. The Committee has rightly pointed out the following – I think it was a Social Democratic colleague –: We're upset about the schools, but what about the apprentices? It should also be pointed out that the report is in fact very short on this point. Now I have already characterized three areas in which participation is possible. I do not necessarily have to emphasize the kindergarten area, even if it should not be ridiculous, but the fact is that: We must think more of it than of reducing the electoral age. I am the last one who opposes the reduction of the electoral age, but I do not want to reduce the political decision-makers' responsibility to join and say to young people: Look, we've achieved it, you can go to election at the age of 16. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Oillinger! No one has said that this must be the only one! This is an important point once!]] For then one will experience that young people – Mr Graf, I believe we can agree on this – will be just as frustrated as adults when they realize that participation in democratic instruments – whether those are the instruments of direct democracy mentioned in your proposal, or those of representative democracy – often leaves little room for the individual in the co-determination. If you prepare this well, it can become a sensible thing. It only needs the appropriate conditions in schools. That does not mean, however, that one must and must play this against the other. However, at this point, I do not see any sense in the fact that, if this is no longer possible in this legislative period, a debate on the electoral age will be held here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's how our ancestors argued about women's right to vote 100 years ago!]] . No, you know, Mr Graf, that we have often made enough requests to this effect, that the Liberals have made such requests, or have made claims concerning the age of election. If you're for it, it's good. I am not against the fact that you are making this a request. I would just like to point out that it will not help us much more now, at this time. It's just a note here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The report is here now!]] I would like to add a few other points to the report itself. I think the report is very good in certain areas. There are other areas - I think I made this very clear in committee - which have made me less satisfied, especially because there are conclusions in them which I think are undisputed or politically wrong. I will now read this passage to you, which I did not do in committee. But I think it is disastrous if it is so indifferent in a youth report. That's what it says in a passage in Part A: "The welfare state is at the end and must be replaced by self-help models." The Socialists voted in favour of the report. I think that's "fantastic" how far the political awareness process goes. I also do not believe that this is compatible with the principles of the EIA, when one says that the welfare state is at the end and must be replaced by self-help. But that's what it says: "Self-help models are available in a traditional and modern form. The traditional model is the family." The modern form is not executed at all, but there is only to read: There will be an upsurge in the family and a rise in single households in parallel. – So you can't hold on to a greater banality. Everything will experience an upturn, it's called, but that's not how it's going to work. As far as the report on this point is concerned, I would have liked it to be, and I believe that it has already been made clear in the Committee, that the very high expectations that young people also have on the family – that is true, this is partly demonstrated by the report, also in this part of A – or in certain lifestyles – are very quickly contrasting with a very high pressure on young people. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Which pages?]] – It was a quote from page 44, Part A, Federal Minister. I just wanted to comment on these parts: It contains a lot of good in it, but some are simply too different and documented in the political consequences wrong or insufficient, or it would be even more to work on it. That does not mean that this cannot happen in a next youth report. One thing I would like to point out: I mean, Mr Tegischer has already mentioned the resolution on youth promotion. This is not about their own petition, but about the resolution on youth promotion adopted by the government parties in the Committee, following the deliberations in the subcommittee, in which everything was open and no contours were to be seen, how, under what conditions and according to what criteria the youth promotion should take place, where everyone was willing to think about new criteria, including the willingness to increase finances, and including the willingness to have the related youth work, as far as their basic promotion and promotion in general is concerned, their rights, and not the one against the other. What I have found so disappointing – I say again here – is that after this very open consultation – we do not yet know exactly what criteria we want to define – a final motion for a resolution was produced between the Subcommittee and the Committee in one and a half hours' work, which, of course, has been partially or essentially based on a resolution or on a request from the Federal Youth Party, but which I nevertheless consider to be worthy of discussion, not because I am against the related youth work, but because I think that the various ideas also have to be discussed in terms of value criteria. And that can't have fallen in an hour and a half like the manna from heaven. I'll tell you one thing: If youth work, including related youth work, is to be promoted in the future only if young people and their organisations cross three times and have to take five oaths on the Constitution or on human rights, on the rule of law et cetera, then I wonder why it is not simply possible to be satisfied by the legislator with the fact that people make a confession to the democratic Republic. Take a look at the formulations that have to swear for oaths so that they can come to these promotions! It does nothing good for the promotion of young people. This must be an open and dialogueal process, defined by the legislator, which sets out the objectives of youth promotion, under which conditions and for what purpose it should take place, and then everything must be determined further. But this has not happened in this case. It fell into a break. I regret it, even if it is just a resolution that has not been shown to be open here. One last comment: I am afraid that the wording you have chosen could help – which will be a problem in the future – to exclude youth organisations from migrant associations or associations. I am afraid, however, that I do not wish to do so, because I do not believe that one or one of those who has contributed to this resolution has thought that we must make this process and this approach to youth organisations much more open than was the case in the existing resolution or in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9263	Mr Murauer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9285	Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: I believe that only the extent of the third report on the situation of young people in Austria and the deepening of the individual chapters show the concerns of our Federal Minister for Youth and Family, the youth of Austria. It's gonna be all right here. It is to be thanked for this, for it is also to be thanked to the officials and all those who have cooperated constructively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: youth longs for values, and the values have been clearly demonstrated in a German investigation; they are primarily peace, friendship, freedom and family security. According to an Upper Austrian study, the family is in the first place among young people, in the second place the safe workplace, then the friends and in the second place the own house. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that politics has its consequences, but also society, and also we fathers and mothers, I mean, which we are discussing here today. Young people certainly don't have it easy these days. I am thinking of the obstacle that young people have to be in, in part, through consumption constraints and pressure; always in action, everywhere and most brutal drug dealers or sect organisations. That is what the report refers to, and we have consequences to make. Of course, politics cannot decisively influence youth in our country. However, we can strive to create the conditions that enable young people to become valuable people. Citizens' society, ladies and gentlemen, the self-help models are very well defined in the model of civil society. I am pleased that you have shown this and that you feel that this is rare. [[Abg. Oils: That's the problem!]] Citizens' society is a very valuable answer to young people's questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Here you can also call the youth associations, the music associations, the volunteer fire brigades and the cultural associations who take care of the youth at community and district level, accept the youth and accompany them accordingly. Youth is also willing to show social commitment, take responsibility, of course also in confrontation and confrontation. That's what we need to face. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We must also succeed in providing young people with training and work, because this is an essential element in the development of a young person. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The report shows us what concerns there are and what consequences are to be drawn from doing the goal and helping our youth to become valuable people of our society. An essential or essential part is to strengthen the families. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party and Minister Bartenstein are behind it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9341	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9363	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This third report on the situation of young people in Austria has so far been substantially approved by the representatives of the opposition. I am also grateful for this on behalf of the authors, on behalf of my employees, who have created this thousand-page work. For you, it will be the guideline of an adequate modern youth policy for me in the next few years. If Mr Oellinger - who is preparing for an actual correction - has specifically highlighted certain passages of text here, I would like to take note of that. It is not a report that has been written by its competent, theoretically binding officials, but the part you criticised has been written by the independent Austrian Institute of Youth Research. This does not mean that everything must correspond to everyone's opinion. Apart from that, I can live well with those words you quoted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something that has so far been drawn up by all the opinions is the need for a reorganisation of related youth work. I'm going to be a member of the Joint Youth Work. I am also a candidate for party-political interconnected youth work. But we need a re-order. What has developed informally here is what Bundesjugendring means, what Bundesjugendplan means, but this is still not yet more and no less than a kind of nostalgia towards the moth chest of pro-thinking, which has to be re-ordered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP, on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the motion for a resolution drawn up by the government groups is an excellent basis for the further elaboration of a Federal Youth Promotion Act. I too would like to thank you for the excellent work you have done, especially the chairman of this subcommittee, who has done good work in these two half-days. It was discussed objectively. They've been a little bit further. One point that is being financed by the Members, including those of the government groups, is different from that of my house, which has its good reasons, is the question of covering the basic costs of related youth work. We have been criticized by the Court of Auditors several times on this point because there has so far been no legal basis for covering these basic costs. If there will be these appropriate foundations through a Federal Youth Promotion Act in the future, we will make it much easier to decide whether this is a basic cost or an overhead cost. We know what's meant. However, I am already saying that only part of the total cost will be replaced as basic costs and that a part – which will still be quantified – will ultimately be granted to the decision of the House. Mr Oellinger! I do not mean that youth organisations have to swear all too many sacred oaths in order to become eligible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To confess to the democratic Republic of Austria must always be possible. Here the resolution does not place the latte too high. I believe that a further claim is very well fulfilled by this youth report, respecting that there are specifications for a very important claim, namely to ensure quality assurance of related youth work in the future even better than is the case today. This should be a common concern for us. This is supposed to be a red thread – not meant in a party political way, as you will believe in me – that will move through this Federal Youth Promotion Act in the future. However, I believe that a word of criticism must also be allowed here. Mrs Tegischer! It is not that the criticism is directed against you, but that you have made a sensitive point with your statement concerning the Youth Committee of the Town Government, which is a committee without members, I believe. The youth report shows quite clearly that the communities do not always have the commitment that would be appropriate and appropriate in youth work. If just over a quarter of Austria's communities are even asked about what happens in this community in a large survey on the preparation of the youth report, then that is too little. Three quarters have not spoken out. If even the local authorities – which are already tending to be those who do more – have a budget for young people only in a third of the cases and only in less than a fifth of the cases have a youth officer – Mr. Mayor Gaßner, I know your community is the exception here – that means that we have to motivate the communities, of course also cities, a little more committed youth work than has been the case so far. Where is she going to start? The base is the municipality. Youth work is to take place there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Apart from this drops of advertising, I believe it is an important, good report that will provide the basis for a modern Federal Youth Promotion Act, which, as I believe, will come into this House in the first months of the next legislative period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9442	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Madl has now been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9466	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! As you have said, there are very few communities throughout Austria that are concerned about a youth programme. This is, as we have articulated in the Committee, very easy to help. The Members of this House today have the opportunity to vote on the reduction of the electoral age, namely vote. As was articulated in the committees by the various political groups, nothing is contrary to this proposal. It has sent a positive signal to each group to reduce the electoral age. You have the opportunity today to demonstrate this and to decide on it. But I think that according to the results of the 13th century. Become a June You are again turning this intention into the opposite, because you have seen that voters under the age of 30 have largely freely elected. You'll probably think about it again. We will, however, inform the youth organisations of how you have voted today on the free request for a reduction in the electoral age. I would like to take a little note of the content of the petition No. In particular, the requirement for a more uniform law on the protection of young people in Austria is addressed 44. I am particularly pleased that the socialist youth has also come up on the train of the Free Youth, because the Free Youth, RFJ, has for years called for the possibility of a federal uniform youth protection law. The content of this petition is, among other things, that it is very difficult for young people to observe national legislation, because there are many different and different provisions which some young people simply cannot follow because they do not know them at first and because they are so different. Mrs Tegischer! Now I have to learn that, for example, in Upper Austria, for example, a comprehensive amendment to the Youth Protection Act is underway and that this is what the Socialist Group is doing, with no agreement with the other countries. So, for example, a federal law on youth protection is not in sight for this reason. This is precisely the reason why youth is so politically perplexed because it sees that all the resolutions, petitions or opinions it gives are simply not observed by the politicians. The only signal a politician understands is apparently that he is elected – or not. If young people were to be given the right to vote, some politicians would probably make more efforts to enforce the concerns of young people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that an agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and countries should be successful in establishing a uniform law on youth protection in Austria with which every youth can live, with whom everyone can be satisfied and which every youth in Austria can ultimately comply.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9516	Mrs Bures has also been mentioned. Similarly, 3 minutes of time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9537	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the Vice-Presidents of the Tegischer subcommittee, who not only led the Committee's discussions very well, but who also made it possible for a long-term discussion to take place with representatives of youth organisations. I think this participation of democratically elected youth representatives is a very essential matter. In contrast to you, Mr Graf, I also consider party-political youth work to be a very essential component of democratic policy education and therefore a very essential part of the democratic development of this society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In terms of content, I can join my colleague, Tegischer. I would like to add two small additions, all the more so than the issues in question have also been crystallized as priorities in the discussion. One is the area of youth promotion. I am very glad that clear confessions are expressed here also on the basis of the motion for a resolution, namely that we consider the related youth work to be very important, that all measures should be taken to ensure that this related youth work also has a functioning umbrella organisation, and that it should also be equipped with financial resources in such a way that it can carry out its tasks autonomously in the interests of the young people of that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, the resolution contains a clear commitment that basic costs should also be covered, that it would be too little to think that it would be possible to do youth work exclusively through project promotion. We have clearly stated in the resolution that the necessary basic funding must be ensured and, of course, projects must also be supported with funding. Federal Minister! Let me conclude by expressing an appeal to the Committee on Youth Reports. This report has included much about participation, youth promotion and leisure behaviour of young people. However, I do not think that the core problems of young people have been addressed to the necessary extent. These are the areas of the working world of young people and the field of training. These are the core issues of young people, and I would ask you to address them as priorities in the next report. I would like to thank you for all the measures that support youth work and also all the other members of the Federal Government, including the Federal Chancellor, who is very successful in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9595	The next item is the speech by Mr Koller. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9617	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The importance of young people in ensuring the future of our society, of course, requires that the concerns of young people be given much greater attention. A questionnaire on youth work in the municipalities was sent to the municipalities. Unfortunately, only 20 percent of questionnaires came back. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: There were 26.5 percent!]] – Well, that’s not much! Only 17 percent of the municipalities have a youth officer and 60 percent do not have their own budget for the youth. The communities are called upon to step up their commitment to the interests of young people. Youth should also be able to participate in the municipalities. That is why we call for the introduction of independent youth forums in the communities. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the introduction of youth forums, the right to vote – starting in the municipalities – should also be considered. Youth must be given more right to co-determination and cooperation! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Steibl.]] 50 percent of young people want a reduction of the voting age to 16 years. That's a signal to us politicians. Ladies and gentlemen! 8. June 1999 – I quote from a press release by Amon: The award of financial resources for youth work of the Austrian Federal Youth Ring is a arbitrary course. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Willkür"?- Oh, my God!]] Amon criticises the lack of political weight for the Austrian Federal Youth Ring and is structurally outdated. According to Amon, the Austrian Bundesjugendring costs only money. For his 28 member organizations, however, he is largely unnecessary, says Amon. I also believe that the goals of youth are being promoted. Mr. Amon, did you really mean that? – I think that will be the next crasher of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is important to promote the interests and not the structures. We liberals will work for this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9678	Mr Ellmauer has also been mentioned on the floor. You have 4 minutes of voluntary time limit, but there are only 3 minutes to 15 hours. But we'll be a little generous. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9699	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The third report on the situation of young people in Austria gives me the opportunity to comment on youth work from a local point of view. With increasing networking and globalisation, regional relations, i.e. local roots, are becoming increasingly important. This is not only determined by cultural sociologists, but also by the extensive youth report. 85 percent of young people lead "one's own family" and 82 percent lead "many friends" to the top of their lives. This gives rise to the task of youth and education policy. Language education and youth exchanges are intended to promote the integration into the global network. However, youth work is intended to support the rooting in the immediate life of young people, in the communities. Hiebei plays an important role in the communities as a hub between the great wide world and the local and regional areas. In the municipalities, young people will be able to experience and experience the opportunities of participation and cooperation and the impact of political decisions. Mrs Madl! As far as youth work in the communities of Upper Austria is concerned, it is to be said that we have a pioneering position here. Most of the 445 Upper Austrian communities have a youth representative. Networks in which young people meet and take greater care of the tasks of youth work are organised in the form of so-called district youth talks. Active participation of young people in community life in the form of youth parliaments, youth talks, youth tribal and so on is widespread among us. It would also be worth mentioning the area of youth mobility, i.e. the so-called disco taxi, as well as the rapid construction of trend port facilities. All of this is carried out by us in Upper Austria and largely financed by the municipalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my community I support the action "Youth to Sport". We also support the so-called young associations, such as the Musikverein or Feuerwehr, which do excellent youth work. In addition to these associations, there are also many young people who are in no association to organize themselves as a People's Committee and organize many festivals; Open air concerts, Faschingsfeste et cetera – this is also financed by the municipalities. We also want to send a signal to this effect, which will enable us to experience and experience community, solidarity and cooperation – and beyond all ideological or party-political barriers. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! I share the measures required in this youth report to strengthen the involvement of young people and to strengthen the promotion of young people. But I would like to say the following with all clarity: Most of these activities take place in the municipalities and are financed by the municipalities. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The municipalities bear the bulk of the costs of youth work in Austria, and therefore it is necessary to call for the appropriate provision in the next financial compensation and to call on the Minister of Finance to make more resources available to the municipalities for their youth work.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9760	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the negotiations on the agenda, as announced, as soon as 3 p.m. Short debate on the reply to the question 5649/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9782	We first come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport with the order number 5649/AB. The written answer to the question has been distributed and there is therefore a lack of reading. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. I give the floor to Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser as the first signatory of the request. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9812	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a general reason for our current debate and for our overall discussion with public transport, especially with the development of passenger transport on the rails, and there is a very concrete reason. [[The speaker presented a paper entitled "The Green Bank must not be abolished!" to the speaker's desk!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't see that, you have to raise the speaker's seat!]] Let me come to the general first. In principle, the answer to my question is very, very informative and very meaningful. We now have black on white that the total number of people in the public area on the rail is unfortunately downhill. We held a transport debate yesterday and yesterday, and in autumn we will have to deal with the fact that a service instrument, an attraction instrument, an element of a web that should be very customer-friendly, will be permanently deleted. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, - I suppose you are also more often driving the train here to Vienna - know that the Green Bank is to be removed, that this should be the case in the course of a rationalisation measure of the ÖBB. You all know: The ÖBB are a distributed company and therefore committed to economic efficiency – no question. Only: This economic calculation of deletion of the Green Bank takes place mainly in the light of the fact that the number of workers is to be reduced. The background to this withdrawal of service, for the strike of the Green Bank, is the fact that the ÖBB wants to say and write 900 creatives in the next few years. There are currently 2 700 creatives and this number is to be reduced. This reduction in the number of workers means not only a withdrawal of the service, but, above all, a reduction in the number of people travelling in the area of transport, in the area of transport, in which very many commuters, old women and disabled persons are travelling, where very, very many people are travelling, who also need care – in this area, too, the overall reduction of car transport – and the comfort and care that overall the supply of services is getting worse – especially in those areas where public transport needs to be expanded. [[Abg. Head: What is the objective of the ÖBB: transporters or passengers?]] Minister! They are also responsible for whether, in the future, the train will operate in the public transport sector without any effort, or whether a workman will take care of safety, service, and also provide information. The Green Bank is therefore so important and more than a symbol because it ensures that the ÖBB continues to drive customer-oriented and creatively-oriented, that the ÖBB continues to receive jobs in order to ensure that the ÖBB continues to understand itself as a whole as a company which not only provides essential for public transport but also provides a guarantee for the safety of transport, especially for the safety of the train itself – and this guarantee is called creator. An element of creative activity is now the completion of the Green Bank, and the Green Bank is to be removed, above all, in order to ultimately reduce the number of workers. That is why our action – we have been distributing requests to customers for several weeks to resist the Green Bank’s attitude – and also today’s questioning. Minister! They are responsible for the fact that passenger transport is also used as an occupation. It is in your hands to continue to ensure the use of creators in local transport trains – or not. They shall be subject to the highest authority which grants the authorisation whether or not to operate in the area of transport without delay. This is in your hands, and I would like to have a clarification here and now, and therefore this discussion of an answer to a question. This is one concrete reason – the social reason, the reason for transport policy – and the other is that since last Friday the financing of public transport has been suspended. I read in the standard from Saturday: Transport rules. Agreement on the financing law for the rail and for the rail regulator. - Saturday, please! Today you can read: Government is still agreeing on local transport financing. - You're almost happy about it. Then one comes to Parliament, reads the communications on the applications and government documents distributed and received, but does not find a government template on what was negotiated last week. [[Abg. Parnigoni: An initiative proposal of course!]] – There is a request – Mr Parnigoni, you are quite right! – by Mr Mag. Kukacka and Rudolf Parnigoni on sustainable financing of public and regional transport. You will also find a joint application by Rudolf Parnigoni and Helmut Kukacka on this paper under the public law. Only: So far, he hasn't been distributed. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Is brought in!]] One inquires, telephones – and then learns: There was a meeting in Innsbruck at which Mr. Klubobmann met Dr. Khol with the Mayor of Innsbruck. The Council of Ministers then became – see! – the ÖDP’s approval of the agreed agreement package for the financing of public transport has been reversed. – What's going on now? In this respect, I would like to have a clarification here today, because we clarified yesterday the financing of road construction. Although the date is open, at least the Federal Road Finance Act is now available again, or it has been renewed. In the public law, the situation is, as it were, open again. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what we brought in!]] What's going on now? Will we continue to negotiate? Is there the committee, is there a veto, is there a blockade of the ÖVP or not? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It was brought in yesterday! It was brought in yesterday!]] So far, we haven't gotten it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's where you need to look at your papers!]] I even called in the expedition, Mr. Klubobmann. It hasn't been delivered to me so far. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is assigned!]] And I believe that this is already a sign of the fact that on the one hand you will be trading on the road financing concept, on the other hand, but on the other hand, when financing public transport – I am now saying extra: "possibly" – you will return to the final round without a package. The legislative period will end without there being a law that we urgently need. We need this law for the financing of public transport and for reorganisation as a whole more necessary than a piece of bread, because it is within the EU that liberalisation should also take place in public transport by 2005 and that our businesses must be prepared and able to adapt to this situation. Therefore, restructuring and financing are essential. But now I do not know what is going on: no Council of Ministers decision, the request was not distributed, although announcements in the "standard", but apparently still hectic tumbling and negotiating behind the doors. Minister! On the one hand, I ask you: Create I would like to ask you the following question: What is the legal nature of public transport financing? What is the last state of things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9952	For further discussions, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes each. First of all, we are practicing this with Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e9977	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few brief comments were made by Mrs Moser. I'll hold on to this. According to the Federal Railway Act 1992, it is no longer possible for the Minister to intervene in the commercial interests of the ÖBB. The product that ÖBB offers to its customers is therefore exclusively the business. For passenger numbers in general: In 1990 there were total passenger transport, i.e. rail and bus, 256 million passengers, in 1998 there were 273 million – an increase of almost 7 percent, despite an increase in the number of passenger cars from 3 million to 3.8 million at that time. Ladies and gentlemen! But I want to break a lance for the ÖBB: The fact is that the effort is being made to make appropriate investments in the field of procurement, to renew the fleet on the rails by means of double-stock wagons, deckcars, changing trains – purchases in the order of approximately 1,000 pieces in the coming years; 25 billion schilling will be spent until 2010. On the issue of saving the workers: Mr Moser, the fact is – and this is what the ÖBB has told me – that, after the current plans, some 315 creatives are to be saved by the year 2001. Not 700! That's correct. I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that the local financing law you have referred to, Mrs. Moser, will be assigned to today's assignment meeting, since we have introduced it on Wednesday at night, which I have just been assured by the Bureau, so that we will be on 6. In July this law, as well as the Powerline Act and a corresponding resolution, can be negotiated and, with your consent, I hope to discuss and decide in July at the last plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen! If this local transport financing law goes through and takes action as we have planned in the design, we will be making increases in public transport by the year 2001, which will again mean more employees in public transport or other railways, because there is an increase in the number of passengers. Zero/zero rail transport has been possible for the ÖBB for ten years. With us in the Waldviertel, the railway buses only drive with a driver and no driver. That's not a problem at all. On the suburban line is the corridor and the garden. Of course, we won't run an ICE or other train without a creator – that's clear. This must be in line with the concept and purpose. On the subject of dilutions in the roadmap, Mr Moser, I would like to say the following: For the ÖBB to take about a train from St. Pölten to Hainfeld on Sunday from the program – sitting on the train five travellers – I understand. I also understand – and this is what I represent in my region – that a train is taken out of the programme, which travels from Schwarzenau to Zwettl on Sunday at 5 a.m. and has not transported more than two people for years. We will ensure with the public transport financing law the basic offer of the ÖBB and will also make other, better and more interesting offers. Mr Moser! To the Green Bank: The proceeds from the sale of the Green Bank are less than 0.5 percent of ÖBB's passenger traffic revenue. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Because they never applied for the ÖBB!]] Ladies and gentlemen! And, following a communication from the ÖBB, it should also be noted that the Green Bank has given a high rate of abuse, which I do not consider to be personal. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: How and where can one take advantage of it?]] I can tell you the following, ladies and gentlemen: The ÖBB have a great offer – I have read it in the newspaper today –: There will be a "city check", the "mobile ticketing" and the "summer ticket". All these are measures to offer a better offer to those who are more often on the train. I am also convinced – I hope at least – that people will also be able to use the railway with better materials, better services and better equipment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You have your day of action again today – the one has a row liver on, the other one sets up a taferl. Okay, that's your form of politics. On the other hand, we are making a policy for the people of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10041	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10062	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thank God there are days of action, Mr. Parnigoni, otherwise the powerful and the "plenty" in our country, which form the government, would eventually fall asleep. Finally, it is a little cheap to withdraw and say that the Minister does not have any influence on the railway that runs in Austria, and that it is old-fashioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – But the order is exclusively party political, as you know. Finally, after the "consumer" has been removed, the railway is one of the last party political bastions of the SPÖ, and the less I can understand that it has been left in the rain in recent years. We always hear of investments to be made in the future, but where did they exist in the past? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It somehow doesn't fit if you say, on the one hand: We will now modernise the railway in order to make it competitive towards the automobiles, but at the same time complain in a request response that the losses in the market share of the railway are due to increasing motorization. The motorization will not go back. The decline in the railways is due to the fact that it is outdated and museum – that is the main reason for this. In many areas, false or not at all invested. And the employees of this company have ultimately abandoned you; they have to answer it daily. The "rail instead of traffic blinds" advertising campaign is a rather classical misinvestment, which ultimately constitutes an economic struggle between railways and transporters, after which it finally decreases. [[Complaints with the liberals]] However, you have already lost this competition, since despite the efforts to reach out for the promotion campaign, the railway has only 18 percent in transport – despite the most intense efforts to gain market shares there, which is not the main task. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 35 percent in freight transport!]] The biggest mistake you make is that you disregard the core tasks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Their core task would have been to modernise the railway at a time when people were still ready to take the train. Mr Parnigoni! You don't have the "enjoy" to have to take the train to Klagenfurt. If you need four and a half hours for 300 kilometers, the train ride will pass. See what time you need to travel in Germany for the same number of kilometers! We drive a stroll that does not meet the modern requirements. This is the problem: outdated railway systems, outdated equipment of railway wagons and ultimately also frustrated employees because you leave them in the dark. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Talk to people! [[Abg. May. Peter: Then we have to build the Semmering base tunnel!]] Ask your colleague Edler to tell you how he suffers as an "old" railwayman that you are not doing anything for this group of Carinthians as a transport speaker! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, there is also a shift away from the rail, because it is no longer on a cross-sectional road. They set up connections because they are too low-loaded, but do not question why this is so. If the staff of the railway, as was the case in East Tyrol, oppose the setting of a line, they will be disciplined. Why is the line set? - Because the train wants to take over the transports on the road itself. Mr. Minister, this is strange! Rail instead of traffic blinds – but ultimately at risk Their own company shifts the train and shifts the traffic from the rail to the road. This is not fair, that is to a great extent inappropriate and certainly not future-oriented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As long as you make the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Transport of the SPÖ, you would have the opportunity politically – and the Director-General, I think, is also your party; it will still work, after all, to have a little talk with each other! – to change something. And it will be up to you to carry out the modernisation of the railway and not to wage a dubious competition with the private transporters and their employees. It would really be better for you to finally do and modernise what you or your predecessors have already announced – and to implement those measures that are of great economic importance. One of these measures is the tunneling of the Klagenfurt–Velden railway. It is very important that a sub-tunneling is finally carried out in this area. The money would be available – according to Master Plan, there are hundreds of billions for it, so we are very capable! I also ask for this because people there have been trying for many years – including in citizens’ initiatives – to achieve a traffic calming of the railways. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The noise is unreasonable to those who live there. I therefore ask you, since these noise protection walls are not established to date to implement this measure without delay. Then you can regain credibility!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10172	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10193	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my 'belief' in relation to rail transport. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Super!]] I too am convinced, Mr Parnigoni, that you do not often travel by rail, for otherwise, as you know on the south railway, you know of the vehicle material and the like. It should be noted that the quality of public transport by public transport is falling dramatically. [[Abg. Parnigoni shows an ÖBB advantage card.]] – That's still the old one, mine's already with picture. Regardless of that, I am glad that we both see what is really happening on the ground in this area anyway. But I do not understand that you have given this speech today, Mr Parnigoni. When I get to the South Railway Station, I always notice that there are about eight switches there, but most of them are closed – and this, although the people in snakes are standing in front of the switches. At the same time, pre-sale tickets are also reduced. And then you're surprised when people say, If I have so much more time to use public transport, I prefer to drive by car, because then I can also stand in traffic jams for the time I need to buy the card. If the ÖBB does not properly serve its customers on the ground, it must not be wondered that the use of these services is declining. This is also true of all the work plans that the ÖBB have in this context, Mr Parnigoni. There is no question at all that there can be simplifications, but I am surprised when it is claimed that the Green Bank – there have been several arguments – is so abusive. One has not come to the idea that it could be done, for example, that the Green Bank must be stamped directly on the platform, with card machines, as is the case in public transport in the inner city area. Of course, the potential for abuse could be reduced by intelligent solutions. However, the ÖBB did not do that, but they simply eliminated the Green Bank. As a result, they also said, as a result of a discussion with Members of the National Council, that: We're doing the city check. The difference, however, Mr Parnigoni, is that the "city check" only applies from 71 kilometres and is therefore not usable for many people. In addition, it will be necessary to admit that the argument that it took such a great amount of time for the creatives to control this Green Bank on the train cannot vote if, at the same time, they say that the Green Bank is taking only 0.5 percent of the total sales on the ticket sales. If this constitutes only such a small share of turnover in this area, then this cannot require excessive control. The solution is simply not intelligent. They didn't say: What do people need? What makes us the easiest? And this is not the right access! That is why, Mr Parnigoni, I come to your further argument with which you wanted to relieve and say to the Federal Minister that the Federal Minister has no influence since the adoption of the Federal Railways Act. He no longer has the political, wise influence he otherwise had – that is true! – but there are still public services that are paid off by the federal government. Therefore, the federal government is also the customer of the railway, and therefore, as a customer, he can also make corresponding claims. So that's all right. I recall the discussion in the Committee when the Federal Minister did not give the impression that he was satisfied with what the public transport authorities were doing in the passenger transport sector. Then, Mr Parnigoni, it makes no sense, however, to be outraged, but then we have to say: What we pay for the benefits of federal government for tax money must also have a corresponding quality standard, and this should not be done within the framework of informal rails that exist between SPÖ and ÖBB, but in public discussions and also in the Transport Committee. That would be appropriate. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You want the Transport Committee to prescribe to the Director-General what cards it is supposed to sell!]] No, Mr Parnigoni, you know that we do not want to. I have no desire to discuss with you by knowingly misunderstanding each other. We're both being paid too high for what we're doing here. I think it would be appropriate to have an objective discussion on what quality standards the ÖBB must meet if they still want to have something from tax money in the future, and we will see that first. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] So far, it has not been done, and I am not confident that it will be done. This debate is, however, an opportunity to take this out again and to insist that this will be done at last. There are possibilities, they only need to be used! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10269	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10290	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can also take the evidence of being a constant train driver. But, Mr Parnigoni, I can also show you the red card for what you have done. Because you have disqualified yourself that you have noticed that you are obviously not train drivers or at least not constantly continuous train drivers. I say the following to you: If you go to and from Vienna to Graz for five years at least once a week and travel around Austria several times a week, then all that is supposed to come as an offer in relation to the Green Bank does not help at all. I would like to go into this even more closely. But one thing I would like to say to you at the outset: Especially here in eastern Austria, we can rightly describe ourselves as a victim of the rationalizations and savings of recent years, because the quality of rail travel has rapidly decreased, especially in the East. I am actually tired of driving with trains that come too late, which are not heated in winter, which are so dirty that you no longer look out of the window where the toilets do not work, where there is no dining cart, where nothing, absolutely nothing works! However, I depend on driving with it, and in the rest, I pay as much as those who drive in the West with good yarns, with modernly equipped yarns, and have no service at all. Nothing, please. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, we should have a debate on how much anyone is reasonable that he should get into a train at all. But we have a debate about it – and you are trying to have such a hypocritical debate there – which now comes instead of the Green Bank. The last service I have had as a stressed person – and there are certainly many – is now also abolished! I also talk to people who drive a lot of professionally. I don't have time to work on a train switch. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't need it!]] I often have no cash in my pocket. I can't pay with the check card to the maker, so I've had a green bank. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Now you have a "city check!]] Now I'm supposed to get rid of a city check. Yes, but I don't always drive between Vienna and Graz, I sometimes drive from Salzburg to Linz and Linz to Graz and so on. It's all from the brains of people who don't run the track. And I'm really tired of that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Look If you look at this card, it has a magnetic strip on it. [[the speaker shows a chip card]] If you do not want to do it in the old way with filling out, I would like to point out to you that the creator has a computer, a minicomputer. This card has a magnetic strip. Then you'll just change it so he can book off this card. Would that be contemporary? Would it be timely if such cards were issued with signature, with photo and magnetic strips? I haven't heard this offer from the ÖBB to this day! In the end, there are absolutely clear arguments. It has been said that it is about saving staff. Let's discuss this, okay, if you bring the example with the rail bus! It may be that there are routes on which this is not necessary. Then put it on the stations so I can pass through with my map and book it! I mean, you're acting like we were living in the last century! I really think that's so outrageous! Back to that argument – I can only repeat what Mr Barmüller said – which you use: This is the business unit of the ÖBB, since we have nothing more to say, that is distributed. timt Pau That is the failure of policy!, I am replying to you, namely that you have distributed the ÖBB, that you will continue to liberalize, but have not defined a framework on what public transport must at least guarantee! In any event, I believe that it is appropriate to ensure that transport links are maintained adequately, that they are made more attractive that frequencies are increased, perhaps within a time plan, and not reduced. You do the opposite! You're reducing it! You reduce the yarns, you reduce the frequencies, you shut down routes, instead of having a schedule – five, ten, 15 years – about which you say: In ten years the frequency must be so much higher, more attractive. The last means you have to do this and that is necessary is the question: How is that financed? Who's contributing to that? – Because it is clear that this must be financed. The Transport Finance Act is now such an old hat, which is once again on the 6th. It has been promised to the ÖVP once again on July that it will probably finally take place. Look You're looking at the situation in Germany! Look at how local transport works in some federal states – not in all, admittedly! But in some German federal states, a functioning local transport financing law has achieved exactly that, namely an increase in the numbers of railway drivers, the numbers of passengers, an increase in frequencies. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's what we want!]] That would be said! With your policy, Mr Parnigoni, we will soon be unable to drive any more trains!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10383	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10422	Mr President. High house! Let me comment on the issues raised. [[Calls to the Greens.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too believe that it is extremely desirable and sensible... – It is down there; it is small, handy and lies below the pult. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander is looking for her train card at the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: I missed her!]] I also think it would be useful to have a discussion here on how the offer of a particular transport service provider is, as it develops, to conduct, but, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I have been told, it has been decided in this Chamber, in 1992, to make the original government administration of the railway an independent company and thus to clearly separate the responsibilities. [[Call the Freeman:Don't clean up, Minister!]] This does not mean that as owners one no longer bears any responsibility at all, but that means that direct wishes, which tickets are to have what color and similar, are to be addressed not to the Minister of Transport, but to the Board of Directors of the Railway. I understand that you are hanging from the Green Bank in a special way; if it were a Red Bank, it might not have been so much your business, but the question of how the tickets are designed is the business – and not the Minister of Transport. [[Calls to the Greens.]] However, we are of your opinion – I think that there will not be too big a difference here in the House in this respect – that it is a matter of the fact that the federal government as one of the purchasers also has to impose quality requirements. Yes, I am of this opinion, too. Mrs Haidlmayr, we have both talked about the need, for example, to ensure in this area that, for example, disabled people are also given opportunities for them to ride the railways in a pleasant way. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: They're not here anymore!]] – This is a process that is not to be broken from today to tomorrow, but that is now a step-by-step process of improvements that are verifiable, and we have agreed on these. The same applies to the issue of ticket offer. I have actually said, Mr Barmüller, that Mr Barmüller has heard it, not every one of these developments convinces me, because I too am not entirely convinced that the path that has been taken is the right one. The fact that we offer city tickets and other alternatives to other target groups instead of the Green Bank is not good because a target group has not received a similar offer. But what we are talking about here is to make it clear – as I understand the comments made here – that the representatives of the population, the parliamentary representatives of the population, clearly state the interests here. Today's discussion and others, which I, for example, have also led on this issue with the Board of Directors of the ÖBB, will not miss out on their objective, namely to draw the attention of the ÖBB to the fact that only a forward development can be expected in business only if it is understood that it is a matter of making an offer which can also be accepted by the customers. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jäger.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me, at least in one respect, show a little bit that we are not going through a particularly bad development with regard to the Austrian Federal Railways. There is a total – unfortunately God! – the development that the increase in individual transport also reduces the use of public transport in all countries – as does Germany, which is also true of France, as is the case with Holland. Unfortunately, there is a careful reduction of about 1 percent among passengers in the railways. I would like to say something on a subject that has been raised at the beginning and which is also a matter of my heart. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a matter of the Minister of Transport to order whether or not to take a train or not, but I had the opportunity to point out clearly the following at another occasion here in the House: It is worth noting that in the trains creatives drive along, because that is the kind of service that creates a personal connection between the transport and the customer. This is the performance that conveys to the traveler the sense of security. If we are interested in the train because it is the safest means of land transport, we must also ensure that customers are cared for in a way that they experience as safe. That is why I will also work to ensure that passengers in passenger trains – whether they are on the road or in long-distance transport – continue to be cared for by desks. In any case, we agree on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10506	Thank you, Minister of State. No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. No applications are available. Short debates on deadline applications
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10533	Next, we will proceed to a further brief debate. This is the request of Mrs Kammerlander, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 989/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act for an Atomic Austria, a period of time until 12. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to The vote will be taken immediately following this debate. The speaking times are the same as before. First speaker: 10 minutes, all further speakers 5 minutes. Mrs Kammerlander spoke as the founder. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10563	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. This Act of Nuclear Non-Proliferation, in fact, is about a promise from the coalition that the colleagues of the Coalition Parties have been making a long time ago, a long time ago, depending on how they would like to qualify. They have made such a promise on the occasion of popular desire, which is repeated and renewed on every occasion only offering and suitable. However, this promise, as you know, is not only about nuclear installations and nuclear power plants around Austria, it is – I am almost trying to say: above all – about nuclear weapons, and it is mainly about the stationing and storage of nuclear weapons. We Greens have tabled a request for this, which was briefly discussed in the Committee last week, and I am pleased to hear that both the EIA and the SPÖ are in principle of the same opinion and in principle could follow such an approach, namely to raise such a law in the constitutional order. At the time, both parties have announced that they are still submitting their own requests until yesterday so that they can be allocated and discussed at a subsequent meeting of the Committee. To my amazement, however, I must now note that today neither the EIA nor the SPÖ have submitted a request, so that the Greens' request remains exclusively within the Constitutional Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] But what matters to me, Mr Khol, if you might have the kindness to listen to now is the following: [[Abg. Dr. Khol talks to Abg. Dr. Kostelka]] If you have not submitted your own request so far, I ask you: What prevents you from doing something that hinders you Both of you are discussing our request to discuss seriously, to look at it and to think about what you can and can't carry along with it. How does that look? . We are all aware that the essential point is § 2, which concerns the stationing and storage of nuclear weapons. That is the essential point, I assume, about which we need to discuss. I would like to explain to you once again why I consider these paragraphs so important. I know that you do not want to prejudicate anything in this regard from the EIA – you have said this to the public as well – in this regard: "no prejudicing" means not prejudicing the possible accession of Austria to NATO. However, this does not rule out, Mr Khol, that we would adopt such a law, because we can certainly discuss options for a common foreign and security policy in Europe and still have a constitutional law, which means that Austria is actually nuclear-free. I tell you what the basis of this is: We have agreed to a resolution with the United Nations, we have agreed to a resolution which sets out a comprehensive agenda on what the individual States should do now, on the steps they undertake to take in what steps they are being called upon to take. This agenda has been adopted by an overwhelming majority in the United Nations. I personally think it is quite unbearable when Austria always appears opportun or when it is harmless – it is harmless in your eyes! – agreeing with such resolutions, but you in Austria, here in the National Council, in Parliament, are not implementing these resolutions, are not at all willing to implement them. Austria has agreed to such a resolution, so I see an obligation to implement it in Austria as well. This resolution clearly sees as a goal a nuclear-free world. It clearly prefers the commitment of the States not to produce nuclear weapons – that is not in question for Austria – but also not to store or station them. I would, above all, believe that it is a very important condition for us to have a joint debate on security policy – and I therefore come to another point of your argument. We are talking about foreign and security policy, because with the extension of NATO to the east, NATO's nuclear shield has also moved further to the east, and understandably, I think, then also feels a very powerful country, a nuclear weapons country like Russia at least pushed to the brink of uncertainty. The situation, which now prevails, is no security, but it would and could give security if we decided to take a very decisive step and say: If we make a start, we will adopt such a constitutional law to show that it is possible to have and implement a nuclear-free zone in Europe too! I would like to mention one more argument: It is absurd, in my view, that the possibility of deterrence was reduced by the fall of the Iron Curtain, with the resolution of the Warsaw Pact States on the one hand, but, on the other hand, a military alliance such as NATO does not depart from its nuclear strategy. What is this supposed to mean? What is to be achieved if you do not get rid of it? – There will sooner or later be a debate about it, even in NATO, because it is not at all different, it is not possible at all, and it is not possible at all. But Austria, as a country that does not own nuclear weapons itself, does not produce, does not have nuclear power plants, could take a step and adopt such a law. You have not only announced in the Committee that you, everyone, each party, will make your own request, but you have set up a subcommittee, and you have more or less meant in the debate with Nicken and consent: Yes, we will do so so so that we can deal with this request in plenary during the last week of the sitting. I take you to the floor, Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka: You have assured the Committee that we will still be able to negotiate our request and also about those you have not submitted. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Oh yes!]] I'll take you to the floor and say: All right, if we do a meeting of the Constitutional Committee, we will hold a subcommittee meeting – and we will ensure that this issue comes on the agenda for the last plenary week. You won't regret it, I think. You can actually implement this in the election campaign – implement it well. You will thus – I say in the direction of both of you – quite a mood that exists in the population in large circles. It's not up to me to give you election seconds. But if you are already thinking about it, at least you also take into account that it is quite the big mood in the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would also like to make this request for a deadline because I am speaking on behalf of you. Once again, if you want to do so, I take you seriously as to what you say in committees and here in plenary. I take you to the floor, and I want to see whether you are speaking today and agreeing to such a deadline. If you were serious about what you said in committee, you would have to agree to this deadline today, because you yourself have said that you want to do so. If you don't, you've not only played your word in my eyes, but you've certainly played your credibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10627	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10649	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is nuclear-free due to laws. On the one hand, there is the Nuclear Locking Act in a simple legal position, on the other hand there is the § 177a Criminal Code, which prohibits weapons of mass destruction. For many years now, however, there has been an effort, for good reasons, to raise the nuclear barrier law to constitutional rank. Even before the popular desire, my group was ready to do so. We have just added from the outset, in connection with the current security policy debate, that the result cannot be that one forbids the "evil" nuclear power plants, but does not talk about the "good" nuclear bombs. If, then, there can only be equal treatment if, then, there can only be a nuclear barrier law that prohibits both nuclear power plants in Austria and the production, stationation and transport of nuclear weapons to, through and through Austria. That, ladies and gentlemen, was a very interesting test case. You, Mrs Kammerlander, said earlier that both groups would have meant that they would in principle agree with your concerns. As far as my group is concerned, so is that. What we have as the only reservations are legal adjustments. This is an editorial matter. I suppose these would be over in a conversation of half an hour or three-quarters of an hour. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Let's do it!]] However, this principle of approval by the ÖVP reminds a little of the jokes of Radio Eritrea. In principle, it has already agreed that only with regard to nuclear weapons has the Austrian People's Party been prepared so far only to prohibit the possession of nuclear weapons in Austria; that is a very legislative formulation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You also have the majority without ÖVP!]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is the reason why the Austrian federal army is banned from using nuclear retrofitting – constitutionally, of course! But this is not really the problem; no one is seriously thinking about making nuclear weapons available to the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Wabl: Fassleven already!]] The real danger that exists is that NATO could, by accession to Austria, station corresponding nuclear weapons on Austria's territory. There is also an extremely interesting discussion, ladies and gentlemen, even very interesting, because we hear from the right half of the empire that there would be no such threat even in the event of NATO accession. On the contrary: It is, we hear, negotiable that there will be no nuclear weapons on Austrian territory. I do not want to go to NATO, you know, and my group guarantees that there will be no NATO accession. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if it is really so that this is negotiable, then, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we do indeed strengthen, whenever a NATO accession should be negotiated in the future, the potential Austrian negotiator so that he can say in Brussels: Even if we wanted to, we can't station or transport nuclear weapons in Austria, because we have a constitutional ban. Do you know why this is not done? – The reason for this is relatively simple. Even if we wanted nuclear weapons in Austria, we would not be able to do so because, according to the Treaty between NATO and Russia, new accession countries have a ban on nuclear weapons, with the exception of Article 5. In the case of compulsory assistance, there is no such ban, and therefore all that is said in this context is Shamar. Ladies and gentlemen of this House! I ask you all to: With us, decide not only to ban nuclear power plants in Austria, but also nuclear weapons! If you do not do so, you must be clear that you can be drawn into this connection of dishonesty! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You have the majority!]] We do not have the majority to take such a decision. We need a two-thirds majority in the National Council and in the Federal Council. Give us these majorities!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10730	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10791	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has happened to me in the speech by the clubman Kostelka, his statement on voting behaviour. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, vote Are you ready for the deadline now? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I'll wait until we have a majority! You didn't give them to us!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It's about setting deadlines so you can deal with this!]] You have - I can tell you from here - also the support of my party with regard to this request, so it would not have required this request, because you have long known that you have the support of the liberals on this issue. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is an application to which, if you are allowed to say so in this form, the liberals agree. [[Abg. Scheibner: The two-thirds majority is already here!]] In order to take this opportunity to ask for something that the Austrian Federal Government has repeatedly expressed itself for and committed itself in government declarations, I would like to point out once again that you have not only spoken about a nuclear-free Austria, but even wanted to expand your activity so much that you said: We will ensure that there will also be a nuclear-free Central Europe. – We have heard this over and over again from the Social Democrats since 1990. That is where I place great deficits, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, and quite, very large deficits, although you, who are sitting in a government party, and the government members of your party have a good instrument in your hands. And this good instrument is a 1997 motion for a resolution. It is only up to the Federal Government, Mr Klubobmann, to implement all that stands in this. I would be interested to see how far you have come to implement these points, namely the introduction of the Austrian position into the European Union and the preparations for enlargement of the East, with regard to the decommissioning of unsafe nuclear power stations. Mr. Klubobmann! How far is Austria at the time of the entry into force of the position regarding the closure of unsafe nuclear power stations in the East? What has the Federal Government done so far? – As far as I remember, there has not even been a visit to the Czech Republic, although there is a very acute problem in this regard. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, there are shortcomings! In the same way, it is in the process of expanding nuclear liability at all levels. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will discuss this today and decide on a five-party resolution request. I am convinced that this motion for a resolution, which is very good, will not be taken seriously by the Federal Government once again in the near future. This is what I dare to say here and today, because I see that the broad consideration of economic criteria in the debate on nuclear installations in Austria is not really taken seriously when it comes to directing our neighbours accordingly. Mr Kostelka! Mochovce, Bohunice and Temelin are, so to speak, the scrapers beyond the Austrian border for not having done anything in this context. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to use this debate to point out that it is the Austrian Parliament that these are the five parties represented here, who finally take the initiative and some of them on 23 December. June, that's next week, going to Prague to do something about Temelin. Mr Khol! Mr Kostelka! You are also taking part in the Government's meetings, you are, as it were, members of the Council of Ministers, and I would therefore ask you to work to the Government to ensure that it is following Parliament's activities very slowly in order to become credible when it comes to nuclear-free areas in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10888	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Barmüller. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10909	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal on which it is now applied does not mean anything but that until the 12th century. This year the Committee is to discuss a Federal Constitutional Act concerning a nuclear-free Austria. This would also be interesting in the context of the national elections, because in a report on such a legislative proposal, the parties could clarify their positions. If Mr Kostelka, as the clubman of his group, says that he is prevented from doing so, because the EIA does not want to "provide" the necessary majority - under quotation marks - I must say that this is an excuse for the EIA, which is not justified, not because the EIA may have a different position, but in this House a two-thirds majority for such a law concerning the transit of nuclear weapons through Austria would be safe. But this is something that should be discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. To stand here as a speaker and say that the SPÖ guarantees that there will be no NATO accession and anything else that still depends on it is a prelude to the election campaign, Mr Kostelka. It is not a contentious debate on what this is about, namely whether this request is to be negotiated. If it is true that you say you want to be a guarantee against a NATO accession, please also make the terms of the SPÖ clear. But this can only be done in committee and in the negotiations, because then it would also be in a report. This would be perceptible to the public, as it is also printed in the Stenographical Protocols. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this deadline, because we want this question, which was also the subject of popular desire, to be dealt with by the parties in the House in such a way that the positions are clearly and clearly formulated in writing before the end of this legislative period. This ensures that people can also make a picture. If you, Mr Kostelka, are in favour of not accepting this request for a deadline, then you do not want this clear positioning. And with that, what you said here is condescending. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10955	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e10977	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Lords! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: They don't want to hear that!]] Today, here and now, according to the speeches, there is a clear majority in favour of this request, formulated by the Socialist Group, prepared and prepared, but which remained in the discrepancies, in the different constellations within the great coalition. Here and now, there is even a two-thirds majority. Why don't you use it?- Oh, my God! Why Leave Do you continue to stay in an atomic-friendly, defense-friendly course that the ÖVP controls in a NATO-friendly course?- Oh, my God! I don't understand! Are you not lord, are you? You're not a woman of your own mandate? Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, are you not master of your own decisions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] You are in favour of this request being decided. There is a two-thirds majority, with some marks of formal, editorial nature – as you have formulated – but it would be possible! Let's do it! Let's have a deadline. As a brilliant conclusion to this legislative period, let us also create an agreement on it and bring it into the constitutional rank so that what the Austrian people have long wanted can happen, namely not only the freedom of every kind of peaceful use of nuclear power, but also a non-atomic Austria and a fixation of neutrality at this level. Let us do this before the end of this legislative period. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, here and now we have a chance. This opportunity is opposed only to the ÖVP and its Group leader Dr. Khol. We know this because there has been discussions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the "Atom-free Austria". Experts from the Ministry of Defence were also invited to these discussions in the Committee on the Environment. What one of these experts, a brigadier – I think, his name was Winkler; but one can read it in the minutes – was, in my opinion, very significant and explains the position of the ÖVP. He said: If we were to accept this proposal and put it in the constitutional order, then it would be just as big a thing – I quote literally, at least I have that in memory – barrier, an as great obstacle for us to join NATO as it is currently neutrality. - Quote. What prevents us from confirming these barriers, so as to consolidate neutrality through the decision of a federal constitution law on a non-atomic Austria? This is necessary, please! This is urgently necessary, especially in view of the situation in our south-eastern neighbours and the development in the former Soviet Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need to ensure neutrality, we need nuclear weapons freedom, and we need nuclear power freedom here in Austria, in the border regions and, above all, in our neighbouring countries! That's not a question! That is why we are going to Prague, and that is why we want to put pressure on civil use of nuclear power. But first of all, we have to do our homework, and the essential task of the house is for me: here and today, a yes to our request for deadline, a yes to the Federal Constitutional Act and a double yes to neutrality by refusing to authorise the transport of nuclear weapons through our country, and allowing in our regions the stationing and storage of nuclear weapons in connection with accession to NATO. Please take this opportunity! We have the necessary majority, even a two-thirds majority. Take this opportunity!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11030	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting on the request to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 989/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act for an Atomic Austria for a period of 12 months. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Lively aha reputation for the liberals and the Greens in the direction of SPÖ who rejects the request.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) Why did you even leave?]] Next, we will have a short debate. It concerns the request by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, to the Scientific and Research Committee for reporting on the Government Template concerning an amendment to the University Study Act, a period of time of 13 years. to sit on July. We are going into the debate; They are all familiar with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The floor is given to Mr Dr Graf, because, although the request for a deadline was submitted by the government parties, the request for the debate was made by the opposition. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11082	Mr President. High house! This is a deadline for the treatment of various materials in the Scientific Committee. It must be said in advance at this point that these are very important materials. Until recently, however, it was not possible to reach agreement on an appointment for a committee meeting. I remember Genesis! In itself – Mr Niederweiser will give me the right to do so – we had not planned a meeting of the Scientific Committee anymore. Now we are trying to hang around the chairman of the Committee on Science, i.e. my person, that we do not find an appointment for a committee meeting within a short period of two days. But the serious effort to make an appointment in the remaining eight committee days was, in my view, clear and lasting until 15, 20 minutes ago. Unfortunately, I still lack the approval of a group, but after that we can definitely set the date. You know very well that a committee meeting can only be established by common accord, and that agreement must be given by the committee chairman; he needs the approval of all the political groups. The fact that it has come that far is actually a low point of our parliamentary democracy. I would like to point out briefly how it could possibly come that far. Mr Lukesch has already spread in advance that, "of course" the Committee is to blame if a matter cannot be dealt with. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: They didn't want to!]] I'm going to stop this. It was not the Freedom Party which, on one side, declared the Scientific Committee to be terminated in advance, but it was ultimately a result of the failure of the coalition parties to agree on certain matters. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I quote – only to see how the Science Committee has been dealing with in the last six months – a note from Mr Niederweiser, which he wrote on 25 June. March sent to his comrades: Dear comrade! Dear comrade! In our discussion of the new legislative projects in Parliament, there have been five points in relation to the accreditation law which we wish to amend in relation to the draft assessment. - Quote. Then these five points are added. He then goes on to say that it is currently significantly at point 4 – that is the passage that the Council is supposed to consult, the Minister decides. The coalition could not agree on this. Mr Niederweiser also told his comrades: As this accreditation law, on the other hand, will not again be separate from the UniStG-Novelle with the three-member study, Caspar One is still trying to move the VP to divert. Otherwise, neither one nor the other is likely to come and the activities of the Scientific Committee are terminated in advance. I would be very grateful to you for a feedback as you stand. Friendship! Erwin Niederweiser! - Quote. [[Aha-noise with the liberals.]] That is how Parliamentaryism is dealt with in this House! As one-sidedly the activities of the Scientific Committee – by the SPÖ – are declared to be completed, only because the coalition cannot agree on an important question, all of which build on the fact that the ÖVP may be falling into some point of the accreditation law. [[Call to the liberals: Here look!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On Tuesday the ÖVP in the Council of Ministers actually fell, and since Tuesday the clocks are ringing out! The opposition parties must suddenly stand for a tight committee appointment, which in itself can only be established by common accord – and this, although there is no longer any day at which time is actually available. We all remember the last week in which I personally, but also many of our colleagues per day were sitting in two to three committees and had to negotiate various materials at the same time. This is not the parliamentaryism that we are imagining! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to deal with and negotiate the proposals that are being carried into the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] At the very last stage, the coalition representatives have already offered every appointment and meant: It's not up to us at all; it doesn't matter that we're sending "every" to the committee – under quotation marks – because – clamp on – main thing, it's going to be treated for a few hours – clamp closed! This is enough for the law and so on. And it doesn't matter who's coming. The most important thing is that there are enough people who are entitled to vote! [[Abg. Scheibner: They don't want to negotiate anymore!]] We liberals want our experts to negotiate in these committees, and so will it, I suppose, see the Greens and the Liberals. Mr Lukesch! Mr Niederweiser! I think you see it like that, too. [[Call to the liberals: This is the sausage!]] The Committees are to negotiate those responsible for these committees. That must not be made impossible for them! If, at the same time, there is a teaching committee, if there is a constitutional committee, if there are no more dates to be found, one must either, Mr Lucsch, fall over at an early stage, or agree in advance and in time, Mr Niederweiser. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, one should not suddenly put pressure on the opposition with his parliamentary rights – up to the threat that if Count does not convene a session unilaterally, which would of course not be appropriate, you could request him to be an overseer. We're already in this house! [[Lively aha reputation with the liberals.]] If a person wants to act in accordance with the rules of business – and agreement means agreement between all five parties – then he is gently threatened by the fact that he could be elected as a committee chairman. Mr Lukesch! I shall now tell you clearly and clearly: If Mrs Gredler – her approval is the last one I need – once again in her club at 3.40 p.m. – tells me from this speaker's desk that she was on 9 October. This Committee meeting will be held on 9 July. It will take place at 9 a.m. on July. Then I ask you to make this request, you will do so, because with it you can be sure that you are not democratic enough to comply with the parliamentary uses, to wash yourself in. I give you the opportunity to make this request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would be in the hands of the liberals to block this committee, just as the SPÖ has spent months in this House, as enough of its proposals were in this House, and then you would not have been able to make this request at all. Now you get a chance. There will be a request if Mr Gredler says that she is on 9 May. July has time, because then there is agreement, and then we can negotiate this matter. This appointment – and I must say that – is very painful for the liberals, because we do not want to do so – even this is parliamentary use – to our Federal Party management meeting, which is to take place on this day, only so that this matter can still be negotiated. We want this matter to be negotiated. We will be taking part in the Committee meeting with our experts, even though we are very hurt and will not be able to do so in due course. We are ready to do so, and we will! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to explain very briefly at this point how the Scientific Committee is being dealt with. ==References== In May 1999, an application under § 27 GOG introduced a matter belonging in itself to the field of science into the teaching committee, namely the Academies Study Act, with which the University Study Law is to be amended. In this the students of the technical universities and educational academies are simply integrated into the ÖH, into an ÖH that does not work, which has an electoral participation, which, in German said, is "under the dog". There, these bodies are now being integrated, but that is the wrong way. They have not dared to submit this request to the Scientific Committee, but to pass it by and carry it into the teaching committee, so that the members of the scientific committee of the other political groups cannot be dealt with. With this request of Lukesch/Netherlands, a typical science matter was introduced directly and without prior notice to the teaching committee. This is how you deal with the Scientific Committee. And for this process, there are countless examples. Although the liberals from January onwards were trying to have another meeting of the Scientific Committee, you have prevented SPÖ and ÖVP from doing so because, first of all, the resolution of Mr Niederweiser has already been declared one-sided, second, you have not had any interest in negotiations and thirdly, knowing that a member of the Freedom Party is to be elected the new chairman of this committee, you wanted to prevent the latter from being chairman of the short-term science survey. You've blocked that – and now you're going in the same way again! Do not try to cry or complain to the liberals. In reality, Parliamentaryism, particularly in the Scientific Committee, has been on foot for six months. They do not deal with him with those materials that belong there! They block him for five months when it comes to giving a freeman the opportunity to hold the Presidency in a science survey! And only when the ÖVP has fallen, do you come back and want to negotiate the materials. Then this one-sided declaration of resolution will be reversed again, and then you will need to agree! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we will not let you out of this responsibility so easily. If Mr Gredler is on date 9. July agrees, finds...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11216	Please put to the conclusion that your speaking time has expired, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11232	In the next legislative period, the Scientific Committee will certainly not be able to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11262	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11336	Mr President. High house! The speech by the Chairman of the Committee has a number of particularities which need to be clarified. First of all: Mr Graf, it is completely wrong that we have only been negotiating an appointment for a meeting of the Scientific Committee for two days, but, on the contrary, for two weeks now we have been negotiating an appointment with you. And in addition to the fact that the Committee had finished its work, it is to be said that you, together with me, colleagues Lukesch and others, have participated in a panel discussion of the Austrian high school, in which we have made very clear that – and that has heard hundreds of people present! This matter will be dealt with in July and, of course, a committee meeting will take place. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Luke has said there that we will not break anything over our knees!]] If two weeks of committee work are available, it must also be possible to agree an appointment with the chairman of the committee. Secondly, and this makes me much more concerned, ladies and gentlemen: I have sent over my computer a very limited number of people – via the Parlinkom-EDV – to Members – who read the text that was read here at the speaker's desk earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] I really wonder how the FPÖ comes to these documents. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Check your own club!]] [[Further calls from representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] In memory of the incidents in Salzburg, where liberal workers have been invaded into the computer of the Salzburger Landtag or the state government, I am so concerned. This is really a low point of your work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Data clau is that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Keep the thief!"- Method!]] This situation, which we are currently experiencing, should not have occurred, because there were very serious efforts to make a committee appointment. But Mr Graf has always offered only two committee dates. And it was double-dual, because the said date, at which a meeting of the teaching committee also takes place, you offered us, but now you say: The Members cannot share. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No, no, vice versa!]] The second date was that day on which the government session is always held and the Minister, as you have known, cannot attend. These were your offers of a total of two weeks at possible committee dates. You then comforted me for three days and only said again and again from one half day to the other, which is why it is not going and who you still have to ask. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I was looking!]] However, we cannot take the risk that an important matter cannot be dealt with because of the Committee chairman's dissatisfaction. In reality, Mr Graf, the cause lies in a statement by your President Brauneder, who, like yourself, has clearly said that he does not want this university law of study. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I never said that!]] They are now trying to prevent the decision-making of this law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can only say that because there is no actual correction in a short debate!]] We cannot accept this, ladies and gentlemen. It is not permissible for the FPÖ to block a law which it does not want to take advantage of the chairman's position. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's funny! There have been no two national defence committees just because you didn't want a law!]] We are still interested in negotiations, we are still interested in a committee appointment. [[Abg. Scheibner: We had no way to...!]] I hope that this committee meeting will be held, but we will oppose it, ladies and gentlemen, that a liberal party suffering from a dramatic hustle and bustle will act as if it had the majority in this House. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can do anything, even threats!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11560	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11581	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my amazement at the fact that the development of a law can take so much time, but that Parliamentary deliberations are only for a short period of time, in view of the fact that we are currently bombarded with letters by Parliamentary representatives, namely with the Tenor: The evaluation of the diploma studies is therefore not acceptable and the absolute equivalence of the degree studies with the Master is to be determined, according to the Austrian rector's conference. The Austrian research community also wants to see four conditions fulfilled: university autonomy, quality assurance, international comparability and the provision of the necessary resources. – There are serious oppositions, serious concerns expressed in them. Finally, I would like to quote from a letter that I found in my parliamentary post today: "With this letter, we would like to draw your attention to our concerns about this law. ... The impression is that this new law is a quick shot. For example, the question of follow-up costs has not been clarified... for example, the question of the A-value of the future Bakkalaurii... There is no well-founded labour market analysis available... On the part of the Federal Government, no targets were formulated as to the extent to which these short courses should be particularly specialised or, on the contrary, very generalistic." It also says: "Finally, the question of funding for studies for the new study systems is absolutely unexplained." And last but not least "that every acidity in a scientific education women are selected. Thus, the Bakkalaureat must also be rejected as grounds for women's policy." This letter is signed with: Eva Czernohorszky, Federal Chairman of the Association of Socialist Students of Austria. These are students who have looked at this very carefully, especially your own people...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11608	Mrs Gredler, please make a brief reference to the subject of the deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11624	Mr President. On the basis of these letters, I come to the time limit and express my hope that we will be on the 9th. In July, I will of course be freeing myself on time, all day long, to discuss these major gaps, which I have just mentioned. I don't think it makes sense to go through a flickering skewer reform of the Fleckerlteppich-Reformer, but at the same time to leave many things unexplained. I could not accept only one of the three dates proposed to me, namely 30. In June, a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy will also take place. Since I am also a foreign-political speaker of my party, I have said that I do not see a consensus for this date, for the other two days I would be willing to postpone my other dates. That is why I do not think it is necessary at all to talk about deadlines if there is, anyway, an agreement of all five political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11666	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11687	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol has informed us in the early days of the past, and he has lost sight of a decision by the President that there should not be any special actions today. He himself already had a special action in his mouth, namely a deadline proposal with the aim of reshipping the Scientific Committee and reaching a direct entry of matter into plenary with the usual form of vote. So you, Mr Klubobmann, have actually launched a special action. If you do not want to debate this – and this is what you are saying with your list of speakers, because it does not make the ÖVP a single speaker on this point – then show your democratic understanding. You've made a "constitutional bill"! Dr. Khol, come under the roof of democracy! We have room for you, we are waiting for you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This request for a deadline would have been unnecessary if cooperation on this subject had been felt to be a committee meeting and, above all, if sufficient preliminary treatment had been made. To keep the opposition in the front room waiting outside, but then come up with a matter of surprise and say: Now we're talking about when and where we want to!, it hasn't played quite this time. But to accuse my colleague, Count, that he had not made a meeting, is unfair, Professor Lukesch. That's unfair! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Niederwieser apparently did not listen at all when an appointment was offered here from this pult, which by the way also corresponds to one of your proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Pass, yes!]] We shall therefore proceed to this bill, to this Bakkalaureat or Caspar-laureat, as it is then called, at least on this "Fast food" of academic training in the matter in the Committee on God can still be entertained and perhaps with some amendment constructively contribute to it. But please take this taste from the committee chairman. He's been trying very hard to make an appointment. As you have not managed to make this proposal within the last year, and as you have also made it clear to us about detours – with this famous note, which is empty somewhere – that the Scientific Committee has already started its work anyway, you should not be surprised that we have not given serious thought to the content of this matter, because it was possible to expect that the cross on the work of this committee had already been made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, Mr Niederwieser – I have called you the "self-named education politician" or "education experts" for the last time according to one of your party colleagues –: Don't worry about the hustle and bustle of our group. Don't worry! We don't do anything either. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11741	The last word was withdrawn. We shall therefore come to the vote immediately, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the request, the Scientific and Research Committee for Reporting on the 1997 Government Template of the Supplements to a Federal Act amending the University Study Act, a period of time until 13. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11777	I declare that I have a request made by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is to set up an investigative committee, which is a committee of inquiry to clarify the question of "averting the war material law in the export of used weapons by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State" and "inaccurate information of the National Council by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State in this matter, e.g. by the fact that it is at the time of question of the 175. The meeting of the National Council claimed that the public prosecutor's surveys had been suspended in this case.' A debate is not possible in this case. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on this request shall be taken after completion of the agenda. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11805	I will now return to the agenda and resume the interrupted negotiations on points 7 to 9. There are now four or five speeches and then a roll call vote. Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Binder. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11829	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We shall return to the agenda and to the third report on the situation of young people. This report, ladies and gentlemen, has three main priorities: on the one hand, leisure activities and, on the other hand, the leisure behaviour of young people in Austria; on the other hand, this report focuses on participation and co-determination, which, as we have already heard in the previous debate, have not been given at all, and on the third, on quality assurance in youth work. Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of children's friends and also as a parliamentarian, I consider it very positive that the experts were involved in the discussion of this report and that, above all, youth organisations and youth representatives were involved in the debate. I think that's what I'm saying. The objective should actually be to involve youth representatives in all youth-related issues in other committees – not only in the federal government, but also in the countries and, above all, in the municipalities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The recommendations of this report naturally await implementation. I would like to mention some of these recommendations, such as the extension of political youth participation through legally established claims for co-determination. Among other things, it is also recommended to promote different forms of participation. Of course, it would be tempting, on the one hand, to accept the request of the liberals. But since I have heard Mrs Madl's statement, I believe that this request would only reduce co-determination to the reduction of the electoral age. In this regard, I agree with Mr Öllinger that: That would clearly be too little and just populist! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next point, which is very important for youth work, is the provision of spatial, human and financial resources as a basis for working with young people. Another point, which I believe is very important, is the fact that young people need, in a cross-generational dialogue, particularly mediators and that this dialogue will be possible at all. Finally, there is the realization that youth participation is not a substitute for established youth organisations and youth work, but only an extremely important supplement. A few words on the motion for a resolution on the protection of young people and the promotion of young people. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in a common Europe, different provisions on youth protection in the federal states are by no means modern. Harmonization of these provisions is necessary, and I am optimistic, as a concession has already been made by the representatives of the countries in this regard. It will take a while – we are of course a little impatient – but it will be possible to reach uniform provisions on youth protection, thus helping children and young people to exercise their rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11887	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11909	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up with those previous speakers who thanked this body for the youth report. I think he has not only an excellent design – thank you, Mr Federal Minister, thank you to all the participants! – but I think he is also a very good source of information, especially as regards the summary and the recommendations. I believe that it should not only be a compulsory reading for every Member in this House, but it would also be very interesting for local and country representatives to read in it – perhaps not in the whole report, but only in the conclusions thereof. We all who are already older – certainly some of you are so open and free; I count myself on it – would perhaps see the situation of young people differently if we were young today. She may be different than we can imagine. In any case, thanks to this youth report, some prejudices can be cleared up or perhaps eliminated: for example, with the desperation of youth and with the prejudice that it withdraws, that it has not been communicative, only games have fallen. It is a pleasure to note from the report that today's young people are extremely educated and trained, that they are interested in many things that the new media are for them a communication platform for education and training, that youth is very well interested in politics and that it is seen as very positive to participate in political processes and that young people have very high sensitivity to the environment and natural resources. This is also understandable, but it is also about their future. The conscious lifestyle of youth, which is also expressed in outfits and leisure clothing, has already been addressed. We can give this report a clear rejection to future Spessimism, the term "no future", this prediction, which youth has no future prospects. This term, this view is out. The free time of youth has a high priority, although it must be said that it does not have much free time. That many young people spend their free time with the family, even say to the family, feeling comfortable in their family is, as I mean, something very essential that we like well. Even in drugs and sexuality, it cannot be said that something would have developed negatively. There is also no loss of value, but rather – on the contrary! – a reference to values. There is also a value-orientation, a value-consciousness, and youth organisations, as the youth says, not only offer fun and joy – that is what they should do – but they also convey values. Ladies and gentlemen! Surely these points are an essential approach for us in future youth work and in legal conditions, including at all other levels. Two more things. Mr Graf said that the youth was politically perplexed, so the electoral age should be reduced to 16 years. – I think that’s a contradiction, there’s a contradiction in that. The young people are not going to vote today, even if they are 18 years old, so this is to be questioned. That's what I wanted to say. First point. Second point. The question: Where should the competence of youth be strengthened? – To this end, I would like to say: We've got a youth minister, she's falling into his place, that's where she belongs. I address an assignment to or an acquisition by the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11964	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e11985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too agree with the thanks that have been expressed more often today. I believe that this work in the Subcommittee has been so successful - of course also because of the chairmanship and commitment of Members - because young people there had the opportunity to articulate, to speak, to discuss. This, as I believe, is a very essential condition if we are to talk about youth work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must create this consciousness in those circles of adults who act politically as we do, as do the landing days, as do the councils. I would just like to say one sentence, Mr Federal Minister: As I say, the communities cannot be blamed, so to speak, for the fact that there are some maladministrations. I think that the communities, especially the small communities, are doing much more than this report has. Unfortunately, I have too little time to do this more precisely. In my opinion, the young people do not want us to always meet them with standing positions, such as: "They are our greatest capital, they are our future." – Let’s talk about "our future"! Let's talk to these people, let's vote on them, let's help them! At this point a word on the request of the Freedom Party. Mr Graf has said that we will see what it looks like. Mr Graf, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke very strongly of the fact that he did not want party politics to be done. But still in the same breath, in the same debate contribution, he made a very party-political request, in which he calls for the reduction of the electoral age, both in terms of the active and passive right to vote – I declare it to you! – knowing that passive voting rights cannot be changed so easily without changing a number of other laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl]] The main reason why I accuse him of party policy tactics is: You can't talk about young people about this right of vote, you can tell them now that you can go and passively you can also talk with them without listening to them before, without discussing this path with them and discussing it with them exactly! I think that this is not the right way, but we must involve young people in this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Madl! They meant that in Upper Austria a party-political action was under way, we were about to amend the Youth Protection Act. – Ladies and gentlemen! It is in progress as follows: In Upper Austria – that is the place of the Landesrat Ackerl, right, a Social Democratic – that is why it is not party-political – Mr Landesrat Ackerl is doing exactly what I have now requested: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl]] In a number of events, he will involve young people so that they can speak and agree on what they would have liked in a new law on the protection of young people. [[Abg. Madl: But the other federal states!]] We can also turn on and perhaps also take the national compensation. That would, I think, be a fair proposal. As regards the accusation of the party policy action in Upper Austria, I can tell you that this action, these events due to a decision of the Upper Austrian Government of 17 November, was adopted by the Austrian Government. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. As far as I know, your Mr Landesrat is also a member there. I also know that all youth organisations – including your youth organization – are invited to do so. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. I have an order to fulfill: I may be on behalf of the young people who are petition No. 44 have submitted, thank all those who have carried on this petition. This was expressly given to me, and these young people told me: There we are finally taken seriously! – This is the key point we need in youth work.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12048	The next speaker is Mr Schuster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12069	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1988, under the then Federal Minister Dr Flemming, the First Report on the Situation of Youth in Austria was presented. On the basis of a resolution by the National Council, such a report should now be discussed in the Austrian Parliament during each legislative period. The third report, which was presented to us by Mr Bartenstein, concerns us today, and he has three particular priorities on the subject. I would like to highlight one of these points, namely the leisure situation of the Austrian young people. Ladies and gentlemen! At the suggestion of our Federal Minister, six youth organisations from the Bundesjugendring have undergone self-evaluation in order to capture and secure the quality of their own work. The results show us that these organisations do high-quality work in a wide range of areas of their activity. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank these youth organizations for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Recently, in Upper Austria, in Linz, a survey was organised on the subject of "Emerging with Childish and Youthly Aggression". Why do I say that? – Because the contents of this survey have many parallels to the present youth report. Notable psychotherapists and education consultants discussed the situation and showed solutions. It was clear to everyone: In the present situation, one must not seek scapegoats and think that one has found a solution. Rather, it is about taking young people seriously and leading their aggressions into positive channels. Children and young people need accompanying authorities. They also need ruby trees, but above all they need people where they can orient themselves. This report also shows very clearly how young people spend their spare time. A sector, for example, is the voluntary fire brigade in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of our youth in schools, also internationally, for example among the Olympians, we can be proud of our apprentices, whether at World Championships or Olympians, and we can be proud of our fire fighter youth, and also at World Championships, because the fire fighter youth from Tragwein in Upper Austria will participate in the World Cup in France and try to defend the World Cup title for the third time there. We think that this is very positive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In summary and in conclusion: Austria's youth is better than its reputation – and we can be really proud of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12128	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12149	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking on account of the motion for a resolution by the Liberals, which concerns the reduction of the electoral age, because the motion in its substance is so undetermined that in reality it can only serve as a means of perhaps placing it somewhere or quoting it in a brochure, so that it can be said that the other political groups would have voted against it. It is true that there have been discussions in all the political groups in this House, and there have also been cross-group talks in which, unfortunately, the liberals have not participated, but in which we have actually talked about a reduction in the electoral age. While the reason for the motion for a resolution still speaks of the active and passive electoral age, the actual text of the motion for a resolution refers only to the electoral age. That is why it has become clear that although this proposal appears to be a confusion, it does not propose a constructive or concrete solution. From our point of view, therefore, this request is not even worth being rejected, because we are in favour of a reduction in the electoral age by the Liberal Forum, both on the active side and on the passive side. But we would like a concrete proposal to be put forward, and we are talking about concrete proposals in this House – and not resolutions that will not change anything at all. But it would be too easy for the liberals to reject this request. We will agree to the request because we are in favour of a reduction in the electoral age, but we have already begun constructive and concrete talks, and I am sure that we will bring them to a close before the end of this year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12201	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12223	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Amon spoke of a strong youth representation at the beginning of the debate on this chapter. I think that is enough to point out that in the field of youth and occupational youth representation, we have hundreds of businesses with hundreds of Youth Trust Councils. If in 13 days we can celebrate the anniversary "25 years of work constitution in Austria", then the legal basis for the establishment of youth representatives is also related. I think it is important to point this out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The issue of "reduction of the electoral age" is a chapter that affects all of us. I would just like to point out that item 8 of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Tegischer, Mr Amon and Mr Comrades, who are about to discuss, calls for an analysis of the extent to which political and professional co-determination is extended after age. I think that we should wait for this analysis before continuing to deal with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the debate, I would like to make three brief comments on youth. The importance of youth work is undisputed; this has shown the debate. In my opinion, federal youth work is particularly important, and it is therefore to be promoted wherever it goes. In this context, of course, the Austrian Bundesjugendring and the organizations which are grouped among it are important. I think that this federal youth group should take a central role in promoting youth in the future. Youth work also takes place inside and outside the schools. I think we can proudly point out that there is already for the seventh time a project competition in the Vienna vocational schools, for example, where the apprentices were invited to speak on social issues in projects. Funding this project competition is also the Federal Ministry of Youth and Family. I think this is also worth mentioning here. However, youth work is also part of family policy, and for this reason I would like to point out the countless measures and assistance offered by the "Austrian children's friends" in this context. Hundreds of volunteers are on the move as part of this organization and arrange for our youth-related events. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would just like to point out the "day of the child". Mr Amon! They have described it as provocation that the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria is setting up a Youth Advisory Council. – I think you should respect the fact that the head of the Federal Government has the right to seek contact with youth organisations and also to set up advisory committees. I think provocation is more likely to be yours if you criticize it. As a youth speaker, you should be glad that government members and even the Federal Chancellor are willing to contact youth organisations. You shouldn't look at this as provocation!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12281	I now ask for patience for a moment, because ten seconds ago I received a request for a roll call vote. We'll solve this right now. [[President Dr. Fischer is reviewing the documents.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not accept a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately on each request. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-182. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report. This is a resolution which goes back to a request from the Tegischer, Amon and Comrades, in which the Federal Government is asked to take certain measures in the interest of young people, and then those 13 points are listed which you can read in the Committee's report. A vote has been required for this purpose. This request has been joined by 20 Members, so the vote must be taken. I shall vote in such a way as to call upon the individual Members. I would ask you, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to vote in favour of 'yes', and those ladies and gentlemen who do not agree with the resolution annexed to the Committee's report will vote in favour of 'no'. I shall say briefly to each Member and repeat how he has voted, and I will also say who is not present. I have a few problems with the vote, so I ask you for solidarity and for us to carry out this vote in a reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12358	Thanks a lot. For the purpose of counting, I briefly interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12389	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the following vote: 169 votes were cast, 118 "Yes" votes and 51 "No" votes. The amendment to the vote was therefore adopted by 118 votes to 51. (E 192.) With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser-Starrach, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederweiser, Nowotny; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pittermann, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegic, plate, tichy-shrink, drink, Tychtl; Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Blünegger, Böhacker; Dolnschek; Flylinger, Fischl; Gaugg, Count, Gredler, Grollitsch, Haidlmayr, Haller, Höbinger-Lehrer, Hofmann; Young; Kammerlander, Kier, Klein, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Marolt, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Gabriela, Motter; Nut trees; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Petrovic, Praxmarer, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Salzl, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Smolle, Stoisits; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12551	The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades on the reduction of the electoral age in the sense of an active participation of young people in political life. This too has been called for by name voting. This request is supported by 20 Members, so I am going to do so. We choose the same procedure as before, if there is no objection. I suggest that in the same clear way those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of Mr Graf's request answer with "yes" and reply with "no" to those ladies and gentlemen who vote against the request. I ask you to take the seats, and I will start the call again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12599	The vote will end. I am briefly interrupting the sitting for the purpose of voting.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12630	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the following vote: There were 167 votes, 50 "Yes" votes and 117 "No" votes. This rejects the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Blünegger, Böhacker; Dolnschek; Flylinger, Fischl; Gaugg, Count, Gredler, Grollitsch, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Höbinger-Lehrer, Hofmann; Young; Kammerlander, Kier, Klein, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Marolt, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Gabriela, Motter; Nut trees; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Petrovic, Praxmarer, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Salzl, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Smolle; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser-Starrach, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederweiser, Nowotny; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pittermann, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegic, plate, tichy-shrink, drink, Tychtl; Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12795	The next item is the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 1966 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of the report to give a sign on this point. – This is decided by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the 1966 Committee's report. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution annexed to the Committee's report do so. . The resolution annexed to the Committee's report was adopted unanimously. (E 193.) Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1967. Here again, in the event of approval, I ask for a sign on this matter. – Notice shall be taken unanimously. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1967. In the event of consent, I asked for a sign on this matter. . The adoption of this resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report, is unanimous. (E 194.) We have thus dealt with these points on the agenda. 10. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1481 of the Supplements): Convention on the Transboundary Impact of Industrial Accidents, Appendices and Declaration (1974 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1652) Federal Law amending the Environmental Information Act (UIG-Novelle 1999) (1975 of Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1086/A by Mr Matthias Ellmauer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Peter Doppelmüller and comrades concerning a federal law with which the Environmental Control Act, BGBl. I No. 152/1998, amended (1976 of Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report (III-145 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family on the Federal Waste Management Plan 1998 (1695 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12921	We shall now proceed to Agenda items 10 to 14, and the debate will be held under one. Requests for oral reporting are not available. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e12949	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I deal with the items on the agenda, I would like to briefly come to an issue that has a high level of topicality. It is of course also related to an item on the agenda: It is about nuclear power policy or anti-CFC policy, which is being done in this House. Federal Minister! They have repeatedly critically expressed themselves when it came to the Causa Temelin. You have repeatedly stressed that you also believe that there should be no accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union with this scrap power plant. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I didn't say that!]] At several meetings – if I say "we" – I mean the representatives of the parties to this House, we have agreed on a procedure in connection with the visit to the Czech Parliament on Wednesday. We have even agreed to formulate a common text, which is presented there as an Austrian position. That this joint text is corrected by the government bodies of the Austrian People's Party – in fact corrected with the Rotstift – and that is supposed to be the basis of our discussions is not quite clear to me, Minister of State. It is a delegation from Parliament, the legislative one! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What a position the government takes, whether you can better enforce yourself in the government or the SPÖ, is not our case! But what our business is, let us remain! I do not understand that ministers and government agencies are interfering in a legislative matter, Mr Federal Minister. I should like to have said that clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They are supposed to take their own stand! That's really bad!]] It can't be that then – and I'm saying that too – one says sublimely: If this happens in the form as originally agreed here by five parties, then there will be difficulties in the coalition. [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome!]] – Minister of State! As a representative of the Austrian people and representatives of the Austrian National Council, it does not matter whether it is difficult or not within the two government groups. But in a Parliament's case, I do not believe that the government has to interfere. That's the way it should be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the second point, Mr Federal Minister. There was a popular desire in Austria, signed by more than 1.2 million people who reject the use of genetic engineering in Austria. Now there is a proposal from the Greek Minister for the Environment, Mr Federal Minister, which corresponds exactly to the attitude expressed by the Austrian people in this popular desire, and which corresponds exactly to what was the content of a liberal request, namely a moratorium over a period of five years as regards the use of genetic engineering. Federal Minister! Your broadcast of today shows once again that you really do not take seriously the will of the Austrian people or what is being discussed in the Austrian Parliament. They say: This procedure of the Greek Minister does not make sense, you are against a moratorium, you will be committed to strengthening the directive. – Then I would like to know here and today what your proposals for strengthening the directive look like! For you claim that this would be far more meaningful and effective than the moratorium required by the Greek Minister for the Environment. Nevertheless, together with the Greens and the Liberals, we are going to make a request on the content of what the Greek Environment Minister calls for. If you have better proposals, I will be very pleased about it. But I am waiting for you to announce and clarify your proposals here and today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A short while ago, Mr Federal Minister, on what was the subject of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The agreement on industrial accidents is all right, we have also supported it. It was only remarkable that it had not yet been signed by our neighbouring countries at the time we already supported it. It makes little sense, however, to sign something that the neighbors who should meet us in this case have not signed. The second, far greater difficulty is that although we sign such agreements, in Austria the main problem is that there is no effective civil protection. This was supported once again at the special meeting. There is little sense in the most beautiful warning if the Austrian population cannot be effectively protected. That is why it is good to sign such agreements, but civil protection must have much more importance, and conditions must be created for the protection of the population in the event of disasters, otherwise the warning will not help us, Minister of State. I just wanted to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The history with the Environmental Control Act is particularly remarkable: First, the UBA has been distributed so that, as has been said, expenditure is once and for all limited. If you need more money, then you should get it on the free market through activities of the Environment Agency that are offered. But now at once you come and need money for additional officials, although the UBA is distributed. This is once again hü and once hot. It is just as it demands the present situation. Although we have made a mistake in dispensing – although there have been enough parties that have warned about it! – but now one wants to have public funds again at once because one is unable to finance all that is required there. This is also typical and significant for environmental policy, which is being made here. [[Abg. Head: That you are not ashamed of such a thing!]] It is therefore spoken well and very well, but what is then made out of it in the final effect is far from in keeping with the announcements, Mr Head. Since I have already exceeded my speaking time, I am pleased with these remarks. I'm just saying: Federal Minister! Let us keep Parliament and the government apart. Look at your successes! We will see from Parliament that we will be able to achieve the greatest possible success for the interests of the Austrian population on the 23rd of this month in Prague. We don't need your help!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13054	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13075	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased to have made a five-party proposal for a European Atomic Liability Directive in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I believe that this is the right way because we can only achieve something together at European level. We have also reached agreement, Mr Schweitzer, on the subject of our position in Prague in the Committee on the Environment, under your chairmanship, and we have said: We believe... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yesterday!]] Not yesterday, in committee! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Also yesterday!]] I refer to the Committee. We have reached agreement, and we have said that we believe that, under EU law, nuclear power plants which do not comply with EU strict safety rules are an obstacle to EU accession because they do not comply with EU law. This applies to Temelin, which cannot be refitted economically, and this is only true of Bohunice, which cannot be technically converted at all. So we agree on the matter. But it is not possible – and I heard that yesterday – to allow any NGO organization to run around the formulations in such a way that what we have found together is verbally changed. The directive we have adopted in the Committee on Prague, which is in line with the government's position, is: Security has priority, and not the threat: Whoever has a nuclear power plant cannot become a member, because there are enough Member States in the EU that have nuclear power plants, and the non-discrimination bans us from discrimination. But unsafe power plants – and they are – cannot be compatible with the EU's legal system and are therefore an obstacle to accession. That is what we stand for, and this should be represented in Prague together, with one voice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to acknowledge that the other opposition parties, in addition to the Liberals, especially Mr Barmüller, but also Mr Moser, have expressed this common interest here, so I regret, as I must say, that the President of the Green Group, Mrs Petrovic, differs in it. What it has done from this speaker's desk today is really a well poisoning, which should not be in this Parliament. But that has still been outnumbered by what she said yesterday in this House. I've had the sample written from the original tone of her speech so that you can't correct the minutes later. I'm going to quote this: Petrovic: There is only more to it, and I say to you one, Mr Khol: If it is so that we have seen the photos, UçK fighters in Kosovo with Austrian weapons, and none of you asks any more: How do they get along?, I ask you: These bodies lying in the wells and lying in the graves, how many of them have been shot with Austrian weapons? - Quote. It's a horrendous thing! It is a terrible thing about Austria, but it is also a very special monsterity to the victims there – or does Mrs Petrovic seriously believe that the UçK, the Albanians, has killed their own people who lie in the graves of mass, the children of whom we have heard that they have been killed, crushed and thrown into the wells so that the water is poisoned? Is that what they're supposed to have done? You may receive an invitation from Mr Milošević. Such an immense submission to these unfortunate victims should cause them to get out of here and apologize to the victims in particular for this remark. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If she does not, she will have to live with that of her immense claim, and she will be seen, above all abroad, as she did yesterday.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13139	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please. [[Call for the call.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard exactly who has spoken, but we do not tolerate personal evasions. I didn't hear it. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I already heard it!]] Please, Mr Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13175	I'll hold on to this. It wasn't me! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of that - returning to the environmental debate - I also note that I believe that the item on the agenda for the European Atomic Property Directive is a special point, because, as a result of this proposal, which was originally tabled by Members Kier, Gredler and Barmüller and then became a five-party request in the Committee, it was possible to restore a single position within this House or between the political groups of this House. I therefore think this is important because, as has already been done, we will be in the Czech Republic on Wednesday next week to have a conversation with the vice-world minister there. It is important to clarify, in the position towards the Czech Republic, that there is no difference between the political groups of this House on the issue of the Temelin nuclear power plant. It is also my concern to note that the enlargement of the European Union is also supported by the Liberals that the Liberals are not prepared to take risks of security. It is only to be remembered that, when the GDR and the Federal Republic of Germany were reunited, an examination of nuclear power plants in the field of the GDR has been carried out. This test, for example, has led to the failure of the Stendal AKW. However, the Stendal nuclear power station is the same type as the Temelin nuclear power station, and it is clear that this type of reactor does not meet the safety criteria that apply within the European Union. If this remains so, it will be a strong irritation or an obstacle to the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. That is why it is important to note that, in the discussion, the Czech Government - think back to May this year - apparently did not understand that any further construction would also be a financial disadvantage for it, because in the present situation the proposal is also on the table, that if the construction of the Temelin nuclear power station was stopped, what has so far resulted in costs could be treated as a Stranded Investment and therefore no financial damage would be suffered by the Czech Republic. That's what we're going to do! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the creation of the European Atomic Liability Directive should, in particular, point out that it must finally be cost-effective in this area. We need liability provisions that correspond to the risk. We therefore need a liability for danger. We need a guarantee of liability, and the costs must be transferred to the price of energy produced from nuclear power. We need a solid liability for all those companies involved in the construction of nuclear power plants, and the liability amounts must be unlimited. The magnitude of an accident like Chernobyl is justified, and that is in fact an unlimited liability. In particular, at least at European level, the question of the channelling of liability must be dealt with in a uniform manner, in favour of the potential victims. In this sense, we will be happy to give our approval to this five-party proposal and we are pleased that we have come back to the ground where we were already in 1997, namely a single position of this House on questions of the future non-use of nuclear power. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13224	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13246	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the subject of Temelin, my colleagues will give an in-depth opinion. I would like to try to return to the policy of matters and to comment first on the report on the environment. It was planned for completion in the Committee and was also carried out. From the point of view of today's debate, from the point of view of the urgent agenda, from the point of view of actuality, it was, I think, right to end this environmental control report in the Committee, because it has been properly taken into account. Today he would probably have gone down – and we would not have finished it – twice, because then the debates in the Committee would have been much shorter. The present environmental control report is a good, excellent report and a useful instrument for all practitioners and for all those who work in environmental policy. I would like to thank the Federal Environment Agency and the staff for this report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Federal Environment Agency has thus once again demonstrated the professional qualifications available in this office, and the SPÖ therefore also supports the amendment of the Environmental Control Act, by which the Federal Environment Agency is given the opportunity to carry out, with funds from the old load rehabilitation contributions, the risk assessment, the prioritisation in the previous quality, but faster. Ladies and gentlemen! Now some remarks on waste management, on the 1998 Federal Waste Management Plan. This plan is also well prepared, is clear and a useful instrument for decision-making. But, Minister, according to the motto: If you're enough your little finger, he wants the whole hand!, I want to say: I could imagine that this Federal Waste Management Plan could include more cost-benefit considerations and be more clearly extended, for example, the field of plastics. In my opinion, there has been a principle of recycling at all costs in this area for years. The principle of carrying out a separate collection with the "yellow bag" has not brought much relief to the consumer. In Austria, the licence fee is well above 18 s per kilogram. This must be imagined: For plastics, plastic packaging, 18 000 S per tonne is stored! It is certainly comprehensible and recalculated how to get to these amounts. A separate collection takes place. We must also note, however, that the offer is being worsened: The periods for the disposal of the "yellow sack" will be extended, the "yellow bags" themselves will only be provided to the consumer in case of own collection, there will be a manual separation that costs money, and in my opinion the production of the products is not very efficient. This concerns, for example, parking benches, garden dwarfs, beverage boxes and so on. Most of them go on the worst disposal route, to the landfill. The MBAs, the mechanical-biological plants, cannot work out these things, and therefore only the combustion is left. But here too, ladies and gentlemen, we do not necessarily go the best way for the environment, because most of these masses are heated into cement factories, in cement plants, where there are much more heavy emissions than in technically mature combustion plants. [[Abg. Head: Tell the rest also: What do we substitute with it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have undertaken to develop a Waste Management Act 2000. This is a way to show new ways to correct wrong directions. We want to ensure systems that ensure proper and sensible disposal at the cost of consumers. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13286	The next speaker is Mrs Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I have understood very clearly what has been said by a SPÖ member here to my colleague, and I would ask you to look very soon at the item in question in the Minutes and to consider a call for an order, because this expression was, in any case, discriminatory and has absolutely nothing to look for in this House. I don't want to repeat him here again. In view of the fact that we have tried today, including the President, to remove the panels set up here, to ensure the appropriate quality of discussion in this House, expressions of how they have been called by a SPÖ member here today are absolutely unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: I quoted a newspaper!]] I would now like to return to the environmental debate and start with that chapter which is currently of particular topicality. Mr Schweitzer has already mentioned it. Federal Minister! Next week in Brussels, an Environment Council, is a Council of Environment Ministers in Luxembourg, where there will be an initiative by the Greek Minister. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: In Luxembourg!]] This is a moratorium, if you like, for a limited period of time, which is to say: no releases, as long as Directive 90/220 has not been revised accordingly. According to our information – we have researched again this morning and called on the Ministry of the Environment in Greece – Denmark, Ireland and Luxembourg already support this initiative in writing. You, Mr Federal Minister, have spoken negatively about this. It is just as it is with nuclear policy, Minister of State: Just before elections, then, if it is popular and if above all the "Kronen Zeitung" also pursues this line, the competent ministers stand up and support it – incredibly! – and say: Yes, we are fighting for this, not only in Austria, but also in Europe! But then, if there is a concrete proposal, as is now the case with the Greek Minister for the Environment, whose objective is to suspend the release in Europe for so long, until all scientific studies, of which new ones come daily and show those ecological problems that we have been warning of for years, have been carried out, so if it comes to making a moratorium as long as this happens, Austria is no longer involved. This is an unbelievable policy, Mr Environment Minister. And you must not be surprised that Austria will never really play a decisive role in the field of European and international environmental policy. In Austria, just before elections – as now before the EU election – different activities are being carried out than after: For example, one makes an atomic summit and promises the blue one from heaven, but two days later one wants to know nothing about it, and it will then be tried in Parliament to avoid a five-party agreement again, because then the world is quite different again. You're doing the same with genetic engineering! Federal Minister! You have to give us an answer to the question of why you have given a negative opinion on why you do not support this initiative by the Greek Minister for the Environment. I shall now also make a formal request to the opposition in this regard: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Umweltminister! If you are really interested in a serious European policy and are to cover the Austrian declarations with the European initiative, you must support this initiative by the Greek Minister or at least explain to us why you obviously want to behave differently in Luxembourg next week. Now to another area, to the Federal Waste Management Plan 1998. There is not much else in this situation, even there is a contradiction between actions and words. I do not know how many years we have been reminding the respective Environment Minister that waste management law is the first thing to do: The ultimate objective of the waste policy is to avoid waste! – This is also reflected in this report, in the section on the guidelines for waste policy, on the need for sustainable use of resources, and so on. All of this is always wonderfully formulated. Paper is very patient! But where are the concrete initiatives, including those of the Minister for the Environment? In this report, which is under discussion today, we can actually document the increase in the volume of waste in Austria. If you look at the figures on page 25, you can see that the total volume of household waste has increased by 11 percent since 1993, in absolute terms by around 266,000 tonnes. The Austrians collect like "crazy" – we are still in the leading field; Germany and Austria are always leading the hit parade in European comparison at the waste collection sites – there are amazing initiatives by consumers, but there are no very specific directives, initiatives and legal measures on the part of politics in order to really do something for waste prevention. You certainly know the area of disposable bottles in Austria, the PET bottles, the numbers of the increase there is. There are no initiatives in this respect from your place of business. I have a "Kurier" article in mind – it's been a few months ago – in which your head of the section called Zahrer meant that you should actually think about acting with bans or more pledges again. Where are these initiatives? Nothing's come! We are again confronted with a growing of the waste mountain. This is the only place where you would really be responsible, where you could do something. As far as climate policy is concerned, where, as we know, you have little competence and where, above all, the Transport and Economic Ministers are responsible for implementing implementations in the transport and energy sectors, you always talk a lot, even at different European levels. But in the waste field for which the competence is located in your resort, where you are empowered to implement a law where you think there are too few regulations, there are no initiatives! Otherwise you will always come to the legislator with good advice. I ask you: Where are the good advice from your place of business, which this legislative body must do in concrete order to finally avoid waste as it actually stands in the law? We're on a very different path: We are increasing all emissions, including waste. Mr Moser will then explain the environmental report in detail. Minister! I'm asking you: What is your balance sheet now at the end of this legislative period? Where can you say: In this area, exactly, we have falling emissions, do we have falling waste data? - Nothing! We have rising amounts of waste, we have rising CO2 levels, we have rising SO2 emissions again, and we have NOx concentrations that do not decrease as required by the Ozone Act. The balance sheet is actually a very bad one! But, unfortunately, I am saying that in Austria, it is still obvious that we can get over the data with relatively good PR. You may be able to do so again in this election campaign. But at some point, Mr Minister, it would be fair for a minister of the environment who likes to use populist media to take stock of what he has achieved in recent years. But if you look at what's going on here today, and if you look at the specific facts and facts, you have to say: It is very little what this balance has to be presented!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13389	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13411	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not going anywhere, Mrs Langthaler. I would ask you not to quote this federal waste management plan selectively, but already in its entirety – at least the relevant figures. You know very well that the volume of primary waste has increased from households. That's right! This has to do with economic growth, which has to do with an increase in single households and more. But it would have been only fair that you, as particularly routine and determined Members in the matter, would have also said that in Austria the collection and separation has continued to be improved, that never before have as many wastes been collected as now, and that in particular the quantity that is particularly relevant to the environment – which ultimately goes down to landfills – has been reduced, that is, the amount of landfill-based waste. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I said that! Then you didn't listen!]] Nor did you say that there is a great deal of positiveness in this waste management report. I think that the overall result is satisfactory, even if we have to find that the primary waste generation has increased slightly. That's right! Now, on the two other points, some of which were raised by you, partly by Mr Schweitzer. Firstly, on the question of genetic engineering and on the Greek initiative of the other Deputy Minister Theodoros Koliopanos to demand a kind of moratorium on this matter. On the one hand, I can tell you that yesterday, in the Council of Permanent Representatives – in other words, the EU ambassadors of the Member States, the preliminary stage of the EU Council of Ministers – a decision with a vote of 14 out of 15 Member States and with the participation of the Greek delegation to seek the conclusion of Directive 90/220 and thus a release legislation of the European Union which is up-to-date, and also for the Council on 24 and 25 February. In June, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States. This is also the position of Greece! This has been Austria's position for a long time now! We have worked hard to ensure that this new directive 90/220 comes quickly. In the last Environment Council under the Austrian and my presidency, we completed an interim report in December 1998. If the first reading of the European Parliament had already been available, there would have been a certain opportunity for a common position at the time. But she wasn't there. We have completed Directive 90/220 on about two-thirds to three-quarters, and we have then handed over this very well-developed dossier to the German EU Presidency. Very much to our surprise, the German Presidency has forehand distanced itself from a follow-up of the dossier. This had a lot to do with communication problems between the environment and the health sector, also very much to do with problems of the German countries, as I hear. ==References== The German EU Presidency then re-entered this dossier in the Council Working Group on March, but is now so far – in the end also after a debate by me with Federal Environment Minister Jürgen Trittin yesterday in London on the verge of the WHO conference on the environment and health – to conclude this dossier 90/220 next week. The chances are intact, the probability is that we will do what I believe is the first best solution, namely to have a modern directive on the release of genetically modified organisms, and finally to be able to proceed in Austria and Europe on this basis. Speaking of Austria, ladies and gentlemen Langthaler and honourable Member Schweitzer: You were not present at this genetic engineering summit after your popular desire, which took place a long time ago under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor. One of the results of this genetic engineering summit was that for so long an attempt should be made to reconcile a kind of release moratorium with the economy and industry relevant in Austria until such liability provisions would and would be valid in that country. You know that the House has now adopted a novel to the Genetic Engineering Act with the relevant liability provisions and, accordingly, in Austria, we have done exactly what has been agreed at this summit: to seek a kind of standstill agreement until that has happened. Why am I to go the first way, namely to adopt a modern directive 90/220 instead of a very undetermined moratorium? First of all, because, according to the Commission, such a moratorium – and we did not find this issue at the European Council level for the first time – would be unlikely to find a legal basis. You can neither decide in Austria nor in Brussels or Luxembourg, for which you have no legal basis – information and information and position of the European Commission in the person of the Environment Commissioner Ritt Bjerregaard. Secondly, We have planned significant improvements to this new directive 90/220. There will be no "may contain". There will be a clear label that tells consumers whether or not genetically modified organisms are included. The "may contain", which "can contain", is gone, among other things also because of Austria's opposition. There will be clear transparency and democratisation of the procedure. It will no longer be possible to achieve a unanimous position of the Member States of the European Union against the Commission, but it will be amended in such a way that a majority of the Member States can already initiate the same action. There will likely be a temporary authorisation – at least a temporary, with a high probability of a ten to twelve-year term, I guess. There will be appropriate monitoring and monitoring – something that has not been done in this form until today – so that, without being able to list further progress and further security features of this new Directive 90/220, I believe that this is the best way, especially because of the lack of the legal basis, it would be most uncertain to take the second best path, namely that of a moratorium. – So much on the question of genetic engineering. Now, Mr Schweitzer, ladies and gentlemen of the House, very briefly on the question of our anti-atomic policy. I reject the categorically, Mr Schweitzer, that VP governments had taken influence here. You also quoted a minister. I suppose you mean me. – It wasn’t me! I have certainly not taken any influence on what has been or is being influenced by motions for a resolution in the House. I am also not aware of any coalition problems in this regard. I reject that categorically and in all determination. It is true that the government has clearly taken a position. Under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor, as I have already said in the Committee, there has been an anti-atomic summit. There will be a second such discussion before the end of June, and the Federal Chancellor has assured the NGOs on the one hand, but also the representatives of the country, that the decision will be adopted in June. I have no doubt that one of the guiding principles for anti-atomic policy, Central and Eastern European accession candidates and their nuclear power plants must be that there can be no accession to unsafe nuclear power plants. I have no doubt that this position of government must contain a clear signal to Slovakia that Bohunice is to be closed. We therefore demand no more and no less than the European Union has already done by means of Council conclusions. Bohunice is one of three highly unsafe nuclear power plants in the candidate countries. They know that Kozloduj also belongs to it in Bulgaria and Ignalina in Lithuania. This is a clear position of the Austrian Federal Government! I can only understand that the German Chancellor's Office is also looking for formulations which, especially our chief negotiator at European summits, namely the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, give a maximum of strength for the European summit in Helsinki and do not "put it in chains" to make it impossible for it to move, because it certainly could not represent Austrian interests with regard to Slovakia at the Helsinki Summit. And that can be neither our interest nor the interest of the House nor that of the non-governmental organizations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to Bohunice, every nuclear power plant in our immediate neighbourhood in Central and Eastern European countries is a problem, which is clear. Temelin – I fully agree with Barmüller – is a nonsensical project for economic reasons. It may still be recognized as a Stranded Investment, but that will not be the case after completion. In a liberalised electricity market in Europe, the electricity from temelin is not removable. For this we have clear documents and opinions. However, as regards the security issue, we have already clearly signalled to the Czech Republic that we believe that, at the moment - I would like to stress - Temelin does not, in the opinion of the Federal Government, correspond to the state of the art and that, as Mr Barmüller has also said here, we will demand, in accordance with the example of the former East German nuclear power plant project Stendal, that the Czech Republic should now review Temelin in accordance with the procedures and safety regulations applied by Germany, by allowing a fictitious authorisation procedure to be carried out, and that Temelin must meet these criteria. It has, of course, been so that Stendal has not been pursued because the German Federal Government has suspected additional costs of more than 2 billion D-Mark and did not want to go this way. But these requirements should and must be met by Temelin, otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I see Temelin as a very serious and serious obstacle to accession for the Czech Republic on its way to the European Union. And it shouldn't be from my point of view. I therefore assume that before the end of June, the next week or shortly thereafter, much more time will not remain, a second summit will be held and that, in the last Council of Ministers meeting of June, except on Friday, 25 if I am properly informed, we will then finalise the Council of Ministers, quoted and approved by me, in accordance with the agreement of the anti-atomic summit and according to the statement of our Federal Chancellor climate, by government decision. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13455	I declare that the motion for a resolution by Mr Langthaler, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Barmüller, has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Wabl has made a statement on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13483	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr König referred here to the speech of Mr Petrovic during this debate - incomprehensible to me - and quoted from a protocol yesterday's speech by Madeleine Petrovic. This is probably a protocol made in the ÖVP centre.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13498	Please, honourable Member, bring the claim to be corrected and the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13513	I also wonder why he was allowed to speak on this subject, Mr President. Mr King-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Petrovic, said that the Albanians had broken their own children and thrown them into the well. [[Abg. Dr. König shakes his head.]] Mr. King! I ask you to declare: Bring this record here! Give the minutes in copy to the other Members and also to the President! For here is the protocol made by this House, not by your employees, but by official stenographers. I quote what Mrs Petrovic said: "And I'll tell you one thing: Mr Khol! If it is so that we have seen the photos – UůK fighters in Kosovo with Austrian weapons – – here is referred to the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – "and none of you asks any more: How do they come to..." Obviously she wanted to say: to Austrian weapons?, but was interrupted by the President. President Dr. Heinrich Neisser then says: "Woman Member! The speaking time is over. Please close!" "Deputy Madeleine Petrovic [[Continue]] I'm asking you. These bodies that lie in the well and lie in the graves of mass: How many of them were shot with Austrian weapons?" I know from protocols and export deliveries that Austrian weapons have also gone to the Serbian Republic. [[Abg. Head: From Austria?]] Also from Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13552	Deputies! I am sorry, the speaking time of 2 minutes is over and the actual correction is also. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Wabl.]] [[Abg. Dr. König: Mr President! An answer on your own!]] [[Abg. Wabl: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. König) Are you a UçaK fighter or a sergeant?]] Deputies! I must check that there is a personal response possible. Give me two minutes for that. I now call Mr Kopf, and then I will clarify whether you will receive the floor for a personal reply. [[Abg. Dr. König: Because he claimed I was quoting it wrong!]] I'll clear it up right now. Please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13677	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[New calls from the Abg. Wabl and the ÖVP.]] Mr Wabl, it is enough! I would like to talk about a few issues that have already been mentioned in the environmental debate. First of all, nuclear policy, Mr Schweitzer. The Federal Minister has already stressed: It is EIA's position that there must be no accession of acceding countries with unsafe nuclear power stations. This is and remains the ÖVP position and has now become a clear government position. I believe that the objective of acting together on the outside, both Parliament and the Government, is a very reasonable one. This is a process that only makes us gain in strength. Here, just as you did, to say that we do not need you from the government as Parliament... – that has been said, look at the protocol – that is basically ridiculous! [[Abg. Aumayr: He didn't say that!]] I don't want to qualify it any differently. That's ridiculous, because you know it's not true. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not at the time of preparation!]] The Minister has already given you his answer on the subject of preparation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When something comes to content, we are definitely for it!]] But if I try to harmonise a position paper with the position of the Federal Government, and someone like you, who, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, needed a year and a few trite in the back, so that we could finally make a visit to a parliamentary delegation in Prague, then go here and want to criticize it now, then it is really adventurous! [[Abg. Aumayr: An enemy Lord! Really a "enemy" gentleman!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Now they clap!]] By the way, it was you who, together with your group, for the first time in this House, has sprung up the common five-party procedure here for many years on the occasion of the last anti-atmosphere resolution proposal in the Committee on the Environment - from purely populist-promoting motives, as I claim. [[Abg. Aumayr: Are the country decisions from Upper Austria also populist?]] We're here at the National Council! [[Abg. Aumayr: Aha! Good to know!]] To a few other things in a short time: Federal Environment Agency. – Dear colleague Schweitzer, you know better, too, you really know it better. In its disseminating, the Federal Environment Agency has experienced a covert of federal funding for clearly defined tasks to be assigned to the Federal Environment Agency. If we now recognize that there are additional tasks in the field of old-age rehabilitation, namely additional tasks in the preparation of rehabilitation through studies, and we decide, of course, to finance the Federal Environment Agency in addition, then that is no longer right and cheap. It is a serious process that we, of course, also provide the necessary money for additional tasks and finance them to the Federal Environment Agency. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] On the topic of genetic engineering and moratorium – request from the Greek Deputy Minister. The Federal Minister has already said: If 14 out of 15 EU Member States, Mrs Langthaler, consider this to be the best way of doing so or prefer to amend the directive as far as possible at the next Council of Environment Ministers, then your statement will probably have to do with the forthcoming elections rather than with those of the Minister. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Denmark, Ireland already wrote!]] Yes, in addition, 14 out of 15 countries welcome the process of amending the directive to the next Environment Council. [[New call of the abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Sorry! If 14 out of 15 profess to choose the better, namely the number one of the measures, then there is the greatest prospect of going through with it, and then what you do is populist in terms of elections and not what the ÖVP and our Minister of State do. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: And when?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I wanted to deal briefly with the issue of waste, but I do not have time, because I have to make a request. Proposal by Mr Kopf, Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Colleagues on the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1481 of the Supplements): Convention on the Transboundary Impact of Industrial Accidents, Appendices and Declaration (1974 of Supplements) The National Council wants to decide: In the sense of Art. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the authentic texts of the Convention in French and Russian languages are made known by the fact that they are published for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13857	The request, tabled by Mr Kopf, together with Mr Dr. Doppelmüller, pursuant to § 76 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Rule 49(2). 2 B-VG with regard to the procurement, is duly signed and under negotiation. I now give the floor to Mr. Dr. König for a personal reply, because he is speaking in the presentation of the corrected case within the meaning of § 57 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure were personally included in the claim for incorrect manufacture or even forgery of a protocol. Please, 2 minutes, and I would even ask you to contribute to a de-escalation on all sides. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13888	Mr Wabl has doubted the Minutes. I have literally explained here that it comes from a sample of the original speech of the woman... [[Abg. Wabl: What section?]] Tongue recording of her speech. [[Abg. Wabl: Who's cutting in the house?]] Please? [[Abg. Wabl: Who's cutting here? Mr. Khol?]] We ourselves because we have the documentation. I guess that's legitimate. That's a public speech. And here, in a response, you have expressed my quote literally – thank you – here. The same allegations you have read here, I have literally read in my presentation...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13954	Mr. King! You will now explain that you did not falsify the Minutes and it is not wrong. And then the response is over.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e13969	The Minutes are not just false, but Mr Wabl has confirmed exactly the same thing with the one he has read before, but he wants to give the impression that it would be something else.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14008	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. The speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14029	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement on industrial accidents – I will come to speak briefly of the statements made by my predecessor, my colleague's head – the respective neighbours, an agreement which we have contributed to the Committee and which will also be included here in the House of Lords, have some questions, as I have my own, justified ones. [[President Dr Neisser is taking over again.]] This includes, for example, the fact that certain accidents, such as nuclear accidents, transport accidents, dangerous goods accidents, floods and the like, are excluded from this Convention. The question therefore arises as to how and why these exclusions have come about and which of these excluded accidents are regulated elsewhere as and with whom. However, this is not the only question that opens up, but it also raises the question of the contracting parties. It is stated here that the contracting parties are, on the one hand, the States of the European Union and, on the other hand, the neighbouring countries, with our neighbouring countries explicitly mentioning only Hungary, otherwise Moldova, but not the immediate neighbours. My colleague, Mr Schweitzer, has already mentioned that it makes sense to make agreements. Unfortunately, in Austria, in the event of an accident, we cannot resort to any civil protection that has already been debated here in the house. It would therefore also be a command of the hour to make sure that this change is made to the positive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It also raises the question: When is this agreement, so that it makes sense, actually signed by the contracting parties? What is the time frame for this? Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say something to Causa Temelin. It is not a question of creating irritations with the Czech Federal Government, that is to say a little threat, but it is a question of taking an Austrian position here, quite a clear and clear position. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what I find amazing, ladies and gentlemen, is that, especially with the ÖVP, what was still going on and agreed yesterday, namely the common march for the delegation, has been different since yesterday. Once again, the ÖVP is falling over! And I'll tell you: It is not only Temelin that it is a danger, that it is a danger to the citizens for whose safety it does not stand, since it obviously does not matter to them, for whatever reason. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You ignore the positions of four federal states, you ignore ÖVP country leaders and country decisions. You don't care! But you should think of a better one and point out that the Czech Government now has to be made reasonable and that this fictitious authorisation procedure, which has been carried out by the Federal Republic of Germany, is a prerequisite for Czech accession to the European Union!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14100	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14121	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few points in the near future about the revision of the environmental control law, but I must say immediately that we are going to vote in favour of this proposal by social democrats. I would now like to address a subject, ladies and gentlemen, which was repeatedly highlighted in the 1997 Environmental Control Report. What's this about? – It is about the problem of nitrates in groundwater. This problem has been known for 30 years now, since 1991 there have been comprehensive nitrate data, but the dangerous situation is still unchanged because no rehabilitation measures are being implemented. The evaluations carried out essentially confirmed the previously known problem regions. It is about intensively used agricultural areas, which we now know. Of course, water law offers the possibility to remedy its provisions, but nothing at all happens. Two areas of rehabilitation have been identified so far, namely in Upper Austria, but there are no regulations to this end, and this, although all the studies we have been studying so far, state that more than half of the Austrian groundwater areas are in fact in need of renovation. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that to a large extent our drinking water cannot be consumed and drunk. This cannot be seen forever, and this is where remedial action has to be taken! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser, as well as representatives of SPÖ.]] Now, of course, I know that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are not responsible for water law and cannot intervene directly, but that is a condition with which you cannot be satisfied. I therefore believe that it is absolutely essential to strengthen cooperation, cooperation between your ministry, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, because it does not help us at all if, in all the reports, whether this is in the Green Report, whether this is in the forest report, whether it is in the environmental control report, is again referred to the dangerous situation every year, but no action is taken to ensure that this dangerous situation can really be eroded.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14167	Mr Kopf has asked for an actual correction. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14195	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofmann said earlier in his speech that there would have been an agreement between all five parties on a position paper for the journey to Prague on next Wednesday, which had been revoked by us. It is true, rather, that at the time of the meeting yesterday, not as you said, yesterday, the Government's action plan is available, and there, as our colleague Ellmauer, who took part in the meeting, told me, this paper was first distributed. As a result, it was agreed that the club secretary would agree to a position paper, which would then be discussed again. The fact is that we have received such a position paper from the SPÖ – the sender is clearly recognizable on the fax – but no further discussions have yet taken place. To call this paper an chord is not correct, therefore it cannot be spoken of as a breach of an agreement, because it has not been accordd to this day.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14228	Mr Dr Kier came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14249	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before I turn to the actual contribution to the debate, which I am pleased to have a resolution to be adopted unanimously today, namely one which deals with the creation of a European Atomic Liability Directive, I would like to focus briefly on the episodes or the incidents in the previous debate, in which Mr Wabl made an actual correction and then Mr King made a personal reply. Something has come to mind, which, as I mean, cannot be based on itself: There are apparently two ways in this House to record the course of plenary sessions. There are parliamentary stenographs, the parliamentary protocol, which is also one of the materials and is an important protocol, and there are apparently the private tape records of the documentation of the Austrian People's Party, which are transcribed and then quoted by Members here at any time, although they clearly reflect quite different content, not only other formulations, other turns, other writings, but other content, than those found in the parliamentary protocols. I mean, that's something that's remarkable. For either we agree at least with the protocols that there can only be a protocol which, as well as it goes, is correct, because we have confidence in Parliament stenographs, in the stenographic service and in the people who have done it – not to 100 percent fault-free, because sometimes errors may happen, but almost as well as error-free. It is unacceptable and inconceivable to me that there are private protocols which differ considerably from that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Consider what that means! This means that the Austrian People's Party is obviously of the opinion that, for security reasons, it is necessary to make its own protocols, because the parliamentary protocols of our stenographs are not appropriate to re-establish the meeting. That's what it means! And we can't let that be based on ourselves, and that's why I wanted to say this from this pult. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steibl and Mr Kampichler.]] I am going to think about the consequences that are still to be met, because if you are already dealing with records and tape recordings here in Parliament, I wonder: What will then take place with the tapes and the protocols in the context of noise attack and grid search? These may also be logged differently by ad libitum, if we give such a model. [[Abg. Leikam: Ah, the wind is blowing!]] Mr Leikam! Before you shrink back in a conditional reflex [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Leikam]] I said what a model effect this is, or do you think that people who work in the executive don't look at it too? That's what I'm talking about! [[Further call of the Abg. Leikam.]] Mr Leikam! If you think that what the ÖVP has presented here is right, then that is self-evident and then I'm sorry. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It seems that it is enough for one to practice only a hint of criticism of the noise attack, and now the bit-reflex comes from Mr Leikam. Not even listening to what's at all, he's yelling back. I do not think that is good, because just such a bit of a reflection should be suspended in a rule of law with you, Mr Leikam. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr Petrovic]] I am sorry that I had to strengthen you with these things now, but I have not invented the problem, Mr King has created the problem through his private EIA protocols. [[Abg. Kampichler: Neither do we!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I expect the clubman of his group to say at some point whether it is really a clause that parallel protocols are made by a political group. That would interest me. [[Abg. Kampichler: Same content!]] Others' content is obvious! [[Abg. Kampichler: No, same content!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It'll be clear. At any rate, it was remarkable that the ÖVP felt it necessary to record its own tape records about it. But I come back to the matter myself, because the words have changed enough. The excitement should cool down again. One will look very closely at this matter. In fact, I wanted to go down here only to express my pleasure that a five-party agreement has been reached within the framework of the possibilities of creating a common European Atomic Liability Directive. This joy is due to the fact that it was a request made by me. I was pleased that this could be further developed. I believe that if we follow this path and if we succeed in developing liability law in the way we are planned – the Federal Minister for the Environment together with the other members of the government – then the one or other question that moves us today will no longer be asked for economic reasons – whether it be nuclear power plants within the Union or the nuclear power plants in states that would like to join the Union – then the account will do the Seine and then we will be able to develop some further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14379	The honourable Member's friend has a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14400	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the Convention on the Transboundary Impact of Industrial Accidents. The increasing number of installations in which hazardous activities are carried out poses certain dangers, dangers to people, but also to the environment. In order to combat and, as far as possible, prevent the impact of industrial accidents, it is necessary to cooperate between the countries concerned. However, because of its geographical situation, with long external borders to non-EU Member States, Austria has only partly the opportunity to be involved in a comprehensive system for preventing and combating industrial accidents with a cross-border impact. For this reason, this agreement for Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is an absolutely necessary and useful instrument for our people and for our environment in order to ensure the full protection of the entire federal territory against the effects of such industrial accidents. To date, twelve States have ratified this Convention, including Switzerland, Italy, Hungary and Germany. Risk minimisation strategies are to be developed through the exchange of information, mutual consultation and cooperation, and existing national and international experience is to be used. An incident within the meaning of this Agreement must have or may have cross-border effects. The scope shall be excluded from the scope of this Regulation, which may result from a nuclear power plant or in the context of genetically modified organisms, as well as from accidents in military facilities, accidents at sea, or accidents caused by leak oil drilling islands. The content of the Convention shall include the definition of a responsible person with regard to the prevention of industrial accidents, the preparation of internal and non-operating alarm and security plans, the information and participation of the public, the establishment of warning facilities and alarm systems, the mutual assistance of control measures, cooperation in research and development, the exchange of technology for the prevention of industrial accidents and the fight against their consequences, and the peaceful resolution of disputes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer said that such an agreement had no meaning because Austria had no effective civil protection at all. It may be possible to make further improvements in the field of civil protection. The President is Mr Gaál of the SPÖ. I still want to stand behind our forces, whether this is our Red Cross or whether it is the fire brigades. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] Whenever accidents occur, they are the first to be on the spot and to help the population, and therefore it is very important that we have these voluntary institutions and that the Austrian population can always resort to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, we welcome the Austrian People's Party of this Convention as an important and absolutely necessary instrument for protecting and protecting our whole federal territory from the effects of cross-border industrial accidents. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14456	Mr Mag. Schweitzer wants an actual correction. Deputies! Start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14483	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kopf claimed in his well-known direct Vorarlberger kind that I would have needed more than a year, and that he had to step into the "Hintern" to make an appointment for a delegation to Temelin. [[Abg. Head: Is this a correction or not?]] Mr. Kopf! ==References== There was a conversation with the Upper Austrians on September 30. ==References== September I wrote a letter concerning appointment. [[Abg. Head: Did you need a year or not?]] The date has been set for 19 and 20. This was cancelled by the President due to the elections in the Czech Republic. So it was up to me again to make an appointment. ==References== January of this year I wrote the next letter to the President. He didn't answer. ==References== I wrote the second letter on March until he told me that it was his business to agree an appointment with the President of the Czech Parliament, on which I politely asked him to do so. And now this date has come to pass. – So if someone had to be kicked into the "Hintern" then it became clear and clear who it was about. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14541	Deputies! The last sentence was not quite an actual correction, but please. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Wenitsch is now on the floor. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14571	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! Despite all of your irrigation attempts, which are being launched here, the following is increasingly evident: This federal government is increasingly responsible for any lobby – apparently more than the House and thus the Sovereign, namely the Austrian electorate. Minister! As with the question of nuclear power, it is with the NATURA 2000 model. In addition, without having been previously talked to the farmers concerned, the EU was simply called an area without explaining the question of compensation, without first explaining who even has the competence of the NATURA 2000 programme. If I consider how hard farmers have already been harmed, how hard the economic operators, Mr. Minister, have already been harmed by your rushing accession to the EU, with this badly negotiated treaty above all... – Wait, I'll be right there, let's take your time. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Tell me who nominated!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Tell me who nominated!]] And now we come to what you have done, Minister, and this is very interesting: In fact, it is not only you who are trying to tell more or less who is responsible, but also the ÖVP farmers' federal officials are already empathetic about spreading this in the communities and in the villages: Mr. Landesrat Bauer of the Social Democrats in Lower Austria was the responsible person. Minister! I tell you – and my fellow Members too – that in this country, neither in Lower Austria nor at the federal level, has anything happened without a prior agreement between the ÖVP and the Social Democrats. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It would be nice!]] That's really how it looks! And, of course, you can try to polarize before you choose to show opposites. This will be forgotten at the latest one day after the election, and there will be the same leader in Austria as in the past 14 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really think it is a point of reference to the operators concerned, to the farmers concerned, that the EU has been called a 32 per cent area for the NATURA 2000 programme, without prior information to those concerned. This is a cold expropriation, Mr Minister, nothing else! Unfortunately, in recent years, we have almost become accustomed to such actions by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14645	Mr Heinzl is speaking with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14667	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The SPÖ welcomes the amendment to the Environmental Control Act because it greatly improves the implementation of the old load recovery. In this context, I would like to point out the difficulties in rehabilitating the Berger landfill. The refurbishment of the Berger landfill has cost – and we know that – more than 1 billion schilling. Research carried out by the SPÖ Group after completion of the renovation and a request to the Minister of the Interior by our environmental spokesman Dr. Doppelmüller have clearly shown that Zig thousands of tons of waste have been disposed of in a dubious "environmental" way. The waste was simply mixed with sand and earth, so that the poisons were only diluted and then relocated to other landfills. The public authorities have spent huge funds on this allegedly appropriate disposal. High house! Now is the restoration of the most dangerous old load of Austria, the environmental bomb of fishermen's landfill. Among other things, the political responsibility for this mega-desaster – and this is explicitly emphasized from my point of view – is the then Environment Councillor and today's head of state of Lower Austria, Dr. Erwin Pröll. In view of today's estimated restructuring costs of more than 2 billion schilling, and the findings from the already renovated Berger landfill, a better method of rehabilitation of this environmental bomb must be chosen: First: Corresponding requirements relating to the disposal of hazardous waste should already be laid down in the call for proposals for rehabilitation. Secondly, The appointment of independent non-coupling control bodies should be accompanied by continuous monitoring of the reorganisation measures. For example, the independent control body could be the Federal Environment Agency. We know that the Umweltbundesamt has excellent specialists in order to monitor the old load recovery in parallel. High house! I think it is wrong for a Dutch District Head of State, whose head of state, as I have already mentioned, is in my view the political responsibility for this environmental bomb to leave the sole control behind. Thirdly, A publicly accessible recovery report should be drawn up after completion of the renovation. By ensuring maximum transparency and openness, it should be possible to ensure environmentally acceptable renovations of old loads, taking into account the experience gained from the renovation of the Berger landfill in the future. Mr. Federal Minister! I would ask you, Mr President, to take appropriate measures for the renovation of the fishing landfill together with the Federal Minister for the Interior, based on the experience gained with the renovation of the Berger landfill.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14719	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14740	Mr President. Minister! I would like to refer briefly to the Convention on the Transboundary Impact of Industrial Accidents, which we agree with. But I can only say: I hope nothing happens. For example, if I think only of Linz: Linz has around 220 000 inhabitants, but only for 8 000 people. This must be imagined: A city with 220 000 inhabitants has only 8,000 shelters! In Switzerland there is enough room for protection for every Swiss and for every Swiss, and there is also an economic crisis prevention with food, Mr. Federal Minister, per Swiss 2 000 calories per day, for half a year! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How do you take this secret data from?]] Federal Minister! I really miss a crisis prevention for Austria, and I also miss shelters to a sufficient degree for the Austrians. And because I'm with Linz right now, my colleague, Mr. Freund: No money for shelters for the Linzers or for the Upper Austrians, but 2 billion schilling for an opera in Perg! We must imagine how priorities are set! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Why do you know these secret plans?]] And it is not the Red Cross that is required in this context, or the Fire Department – the whole work done – but the policy is required to provide sufficient protection for the Austrian population. Federal Minister! It is one to sign a great agreement and a second to make a corresponding policy to protect the population. - You're doing the first.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14795	Mr Schrefel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14817	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The way in which resources are used has a significant impact on the quality of our environment. However, while experts often agree on numerous objectives and measures very quickly, there are often major problems in practical implementation. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, a number of agenda items were discussed, partly with new government proposals for the implementation and adaptation of international and national requirements, but partly with reports from the Federal Environment Agency to the National Council. On item 1, cross-border impact of industrial accidents, my colleague Karl Freund has already given a detailed opinion. I would just like to say: Since we are dealing with an ever-increasing number of installations in which dangerous activities are carried out, the identification of the competent authorities and the establishment of a contact point for mutual information and assistance is of great importance. However, also item 3 of the agenda, the amendment to be decided on to the environmental control law, concerns the proper execution of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, which must be adapted to the increased effort of staff. The application empowers the Federal Environment Agency now distributed to carry out projects to investigate suspicious areas and old loads. The amendment of the Environmental Information Act introduces an adaptation to the EU Directive on improved information opportunities in the field of environmental protection, which also reduces the current number of derogations. Finally, the Federal Ministry of the Environment's environmental control report for the period 1995 to 1997 was allocated and debated to the Committee for completion. This communiqué was unanimously adopted by the Committee on the Environment. Personally, I would like to point out that the environmental report once again shows a very detailed picture of the environmental situation in Austria and that the Federal Environment Agency, in its new form, can continue to carry out its work in a proven way, and I can thank the experts of the Federal Environment Agency for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, the report shows successes in air conservation, in the protection of water, but also in the collection of waste. I am particularly pleased that the number of organic holdings has increased further, and it is also apparent that numerous positive impulses have been set by the ÖPUL programme towards a reduced use of pesticides and a reduction in the levels of nitrate in groundwater. Our political effort must continue to set clear limits on environmental action, to create appropriate scope for action for sustainable behaviour, but also to ensure that these multifunctional services for the general public are honoured accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14875	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Müller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14896	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, I have done my utmost not to praise you, but to treat you half fairly. I do not think it is necessary to apply the method of "glass semi-empty" in environmental policy if the glass is in fact at least three quarters full. The reports on the debate today, the waste report, but also the environmental control report, are also an excellent work, which has been done by your employees, UBA and the officials, but which you are responsible for. And these reports are good! These reports are the basis for an objective and fair debate – with weaknesses that we still have in environmental policy, of course, an environmental policy, which is quite comparable and tangible internationally. I have already said in committee – my colleague Heinzl has pointed this out a little more clearly – that we have to consider a lot in the waste management because I believe that there are tendencies to escape from waste law – I think you have a similar discomfort – for example at the Berger landfill and at the fishing dump. I cannot get closer to that for reasons of time, but that happens strangely, and I think it is clear to all of us that there are huge business potentials in the waste sector. It is therefore an important point for me, for example, that we should approach very quickly, that we not only have the control of hazardous waste, but also that we find a simple procedure that does not burden the economy again over a fee, but with which we also gain a much better overview of non-hazardous waste. What do I mean? – An example: We have meant it well and have taken out the oil and the old oils from the hazardous wastes. I have documents or references to them, partly from the German Federal Environment Agency, that these substances are then mixed with other waste oils in which PCBs may be inside, and that may cause problems in the production of feed. But you have to look at that objectively. That means: Please think very quickly – I think there is a preliminary work on a system with which we cover, as far as possible, non-bureaucratic waste. This, Mr Minister, may increase the amount of waste in Austria, as Mr Langthaler has criticized, but – and this has also been the reason for the increase – in the sense of better recording. In reality, the masses have not increased to the extent, but in part, we are getting better, especially with the building remains or with the excavating material. So that's a point that's important to me. Another point: I have heard, Minister of State, that there should be an installation in Germany with the funny name "Black Pump". And I have also heard that material goes out of our plastic system, our collection system there for recycling, and the recovery should look so that the material is scraped, mixed with household waste and then fed as fuel for combustion. – I have to say: We prefer to burn it with ourselves and use the energy content with us, instead of collecting and exploiting it for expensive money. – These are perhaps a few little strainlights about some of the things I would like us to do. They know, as we do not agree, that the implementation of the EU Directive on the incineration of hazardous waste is, for me, a flight from waste law or at least no successful cause. I am not going to lose my opinion that we have established a "three-class society", namely strict emission limit values for mono-incineration plants, i.e. for real waste combustion plants, higher emission limits for industrial co-incineration plants by the mixing scheme and, in particular, the fixed emission limits for co-incineration in the cement industry. I don't think that's a good thing. Federal Minister! Nevertheless, the reports are a good basis for us to continue developing environmental policy in the future. And, as has already been said, the environmental glass is certainly not half full or half empty in Austria, but I would say that at least three quarters are full. – Thank you and your staff.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14949	Mr Oberhaidinger spoke at a speaking time of 3 minutes. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: 4!]] - I'll stop for four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e14978	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I have some thoughts on the present motion for a resolution, which calls on the Federal Government to initiate fundamental building blocks for a European nuclear liability regime, I would like to make a few clarifications on the temelin debate, which is to say, on the forthcoming visit of the Austrian parliamentarians. I was present in the Committee from the outset, just as I did in this preliminary meeting yesterday, and we agreed on the following procedure: There is a paper – starting from the nuclear summit paper – something adapted – and we have agreed – all the representatives of the five political groups present – that this is the basis for discussion, in this direction the talks with the Czech parliamentarians will be prepared. Fact two: In addition, we have agreed that a paper will be prepared by the secretaries for the press, which, logically, will not be produced in detail and in density, but already in full clarity, for which we will be in the discussion with the Czech parliamentarians. Mr Ellmauer, I was surprised that you did not correct – you were there – but my colleague's head. I have to tell you: What is now available, namely the second version of the press paper, is really a "Wischiwaschi" explanation!" [[Congratulation with the SPÖ, the Greens and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I refuse to introduce this to the Czech press! You should be truly grateful that we have not received your suggestion – you wanted to take along colleagues Gumpinger from the Upper Austrian Parliament. My dear friends of the ÖVP, you would have looked old! That would have been exactly the opposite of what the ÖVP in Upper Austria, the ÖVP in Lower Austria, and also the whole country day are for. I can't imagine that at all. What was stated in the first version of this press release corresponds exactly to what your Federal Minister has clearly presented here on anti-atomic policy and temelin. That is why I said I do not understand this attitude. I hope, unfortunately, that our positions will be presented to the Czech parliamentarians next week in the light of the clarity discussed. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ, the Greens and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Members of the ÖVP are really welcome to do so. [[Abg. Head: The government coalition is uninteresting for you?]] You have already demonstrated a few times in this house how indifferent the existing coalition is to you at the moment. [[Call the ÖVP: What? What?]] [[Abg. Head: What did you say now?]] Yes, you've already demonstrated this a few times! This week I have experienced it myself several times, ladies and gentlemen! [[Lively applause at the SPÖ.]] Don't be so squeaky! Once we stand by what we have said all the time, then you are the insulters! And there we go, please, something more: It is at last about the fact that the ÖVP at the federal level acknowledges colour as to what the ÖVP at the national level – in Upper Austria as in Lower Austria – constantly gives of itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have no problem with that, and we will stand for that! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a need, however, to thank a colleague from the Liberal Forum for this motion for a resolution, which we will now decide on: Mr Kier, who presented a motion for a resolution on a truly comprehensive law of liability, which should be initiated at European level. We have often talked about the cost-truth factor in this House. We have written from our group, Mr Marizzi and I, on this subject, Commissioner Van Miert, who has confirmed to us that this is a very important factor in relation to the prices for nuclear power, and it was really high time that we became an initiative here. – I do not want to thank colleagues Kier for this. I believe that if we decide on this proposal and it is implemented by the Federal Government by the end of this year, we have made a significant contribution to further improving the cost truthfulness of nuclear power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15061	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15083	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no party that has such a width as the ÖVP in the nuclear course and therefore probably calls itself a People's Party. There we have a head of state who, together with his Low Austrian colleagues, is really vehement for a junkim, which is normally the line of the liberals. There we have a populist country ÖVP, which always drums with a country-member Gumpinger on site: No accession when Temelin is finished! On the other hand – there is an uncanny width in this party – there is a foreign minister who knows very finely how to play the diplomatic piano and who always places emphasis on the fact that every word is duly chosen, carefully chosen and also beautifully tuned to the diplomatic vocabulary. This Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel repeatedly says that the question of Temelin should be addressed during accession negotiations. We read in the paper that Mr Kopf brought into the negotiations this morning in the amendment of the proposal of all other parties, because this is again the ominous wording of Dr. Schüssel: In this respect, Austria will continue to focus on the preparation of the Helsinki European Council and Helsinki itself. – Please, this is the width of the ÖVP! We want accession to be negotiated against the background of security and against the background of an offensive exit approach, the accession negotiations will be driven in the direction and the construction stop will play a decisive role in Austria's position at the Helsinki European Council. That's the difference: We want him to play a crucial role, you want to address him. This is a correct representation and also shows the span width. If Mr. Landeshuptmann Dr. Pühringer formulated the paper, there would certainly be: Austria only gives its consent if the construction stop of Temelin was previously decided. That's just a supplement. Detailed statements have already been made by my previous speaker, and so I can keep myself relatively narrow in this area. Minister! Now, specifically, on the areas covered by these agenda items. For me, it was a very shocking experience in the Environment Committee that this comprehensive report, which covers 668 pages and at the same time represents a kind of "Brockhaus" of the Austrian environmental situation – one can look at different areas, one finds a lot of information – that is, that this report – one hears and marvels! – the Committee will be finalized. [[the speaker shall keep the report referred to in paragraph 1 up to date.]] Here and today, we cannot directly discuss this report, we can address it – this is the famous bowl formulation – in connection with the Environmental Control Act. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do it! Do it!]] [[Abg. Schieder: The "Brockhaus" is not discussed either!]] I believe that this is a significant factor in the attitude of the EIA to the environment: It should not be officially discussed here, so to speak, a comprehensive, very valuable, very well-founded work on a day-to-day basis. There is certainly the possibility of responding to it in the context of the treatment of the environmental control law. [[Abg. Head: What does this have to do with the ÖVP?]] They have been slanted fish-à-vis by me, and they have especially insisted that business rules are being carried out quite correctly here. - But you know it anyway. [[Abg. Head: Why did we then make a Rules of Procedure, which generally provides for reports to be completed in committee?]] Mr. Kopf! I do not even dispute the Rules of Procedure, but you could have agreed that we would have dealt with it in plenary. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Head.]] I would just like to refer to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where much more is possible in this context. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mrs Tichy-Schreder has the chairmanship, and this is incredibly tolerant. There is no vote on whether a report is being completed or not, it is clear that it will end in plenary rather than in committee. – So again a span of the ÖVP, which is quite overwhelming. But now, in concrete terms, some of these essential findings that are being made in this report on the environment, which is actually a very large list of calls for action. Mr Minister, you have also spoken in great detail today about EU projects relating to genetic engineering. A total of EU projects in environmental policy should be kept, for example, on what the Committee of the Regions proposes, namely that an overall implementation programme with concrete measures, concrete deadlines and concrete responsibilities be adopted at EU level. I believe that this monitoring report requires a second, a supplemental volume, in which the precise action plan is then established in accordance with the examples and models of the city of Graz or now also the city of Linz. It should, for example, include: First of all, we want to deal with the reduction of air pollutants, the target for CO2 by 2002 is minus x percent. We have to reach minus 13 percent by 2008 and 2012. If you still have a heading for the measures (a), (b), (c), (d) and the responsibilities laid down – you, Minister Farnleitner, are responsible for the various responsibilities at the country level – then you can go to work in concrete terms. But so far we have only a compilation of what is necessary, but not a catalogue of implementation. However, an implementation catalogue at EU level is required. Why don't we do that nationally? Regionally it is done, locally there is this, for example in Graz, for example in Linz, but at the federal level one steals from it and leaves it in this report and that it is finished in committee. I can only take two elements out particularly because the waste burning was under discussion. In this report on the environment, you can see that mercury emissions have just increased dramatically and that this increase – in total we have more than 2.18 tonnes of Austria – is primarily due to waste burning. That's just a detail. Mercury is highly toxic. In this context, tons are already dimensions to think about. I would like to draw up a second element, which is also related to traffic. They can well read in the report that the SO2 tax has decreased between 1980 and 1995. If you read exactly, however, you will notice that in 1988 we already had the stand of 5,440 tonnes. But seven years later we have again 8 720 tons. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Take a look! Look at this!]] You can read what this is due to, namely the increasing diesel-car transport, diesel-truck transport, on freight transport. This is where we have to go, and we have provided for a higher taxation of diesel for environmental reasons, not fiscal reasons. I have made many other comments, but I would like to leave it with these two examples. Let us take seriously what is being done at EU level, here there is an implementation programme, at least it is in preparation. We urgently need it at national level!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15183	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report is not sought. I now ask you to take the places, because we are voting, and first of all we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Annexes and the Declaration in 1481 of the Supplements. This State Treaty amends constitutional law, so that I first, within the meaning of § 82 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall state that the presence of the Members of this House required for the vote is appropriate. I now ask all the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the conclusion of this agreement being approved in order to have a corresponding sign of approval. – That is unanimous. This unanimity includes, of course, the necessary constitutional quota. I now turn to the Committee's request that the present State Treaty be applied within the meaning of Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – That is unanimous. This request was adopted unanimously. I would also like to say here once again that the constitutional two-thirds quorum is in place. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the authentic texts of the Convention in French and Russian languages are made known by making them available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family. Whoever is at the rally for this procedure may give a sign of consent. – Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, too? - No, I don't. So I have to say that this has been accepted in a multiplicity way. We now come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Information Act, including the title and receipt in 1975 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. I now also ask for a vote for the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft at third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the draft Federal Law amending the Environmental Control Act, together with the title and receipt in 1976 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft has been adopted by a large majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this in third reading may be able to make this known. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Langthaler, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on the EU-wide genetic engineering moratorium. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the 1977 Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. This request has been adopted unanimously. (E 195.) We are now voting on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-145. Whoever is for it may give a sign. – The attention of this report takes place in a majority way. Adopted by a majority. 15. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (1769 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Restrictions in the Order of Items of Historical, Artistic or Cultural Meaning (DMSG) (1899 of Supplements) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15329	We now come to items 15 and 16 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. Mr Krüger did not report so that he could free himself the way for the first contribution to the debate. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15353	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the limitation of speaking time in all short terms to the Monumental Protection Act. Firstly, in formal terms, we refer to the opinion of the Federal Chancellor's Office, which states that this law, which originates from the Ministry of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, is the lowest point of a long casuistic settlement. In fact, the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has been very closely concerned with the novel and has not left a good hair on this novelle in formal terms, but also in terms of content. This is how we complain – and this criticism can be followed – that a wide range of undetermined legal concepts are introduced, beyond the previous terminology of undetermined legal concepts. At once there are words such as "at least", "in fact", "probable", that is, words that have not lost anything in laws. They know the principle of legality, which means that the whole administration must be carried out only by virtue of the laws. But how can laws be implemented whose contents are so pious that they do not understand anyone, laws which are not applicable in practice by such filthy terms as "anywhere", "in fact" and "probable"? What are these laws if they do not understand normal mortal citizens and themselves cannot understand individual provisions, such as constitutional officials? This is formal. For this reason alone, there is already a rejection. But in a material sense, it is not a big throw, Mrs Bundesminister. In particular, it is to be complained that the person involved in a memorial protection procedure, namely the standard subject, the standard address, the owner of a monument or a potential monument, comes under the wheels. He has no appropriate legal status at all, his rights are so to speak. These are, in fact, the remains of a strong thinking of authority, a strict over- and sub-order. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We do not reject the law on all points. You know, all clubs got the letter from the Historic Commission. The Historical Commission has warned against the possibility that private companies may suppress archival content, whose legal predecessors in the Nazi era. This is not possible, of course, because a historian's commission can only operate and assess the facts, even in the sense of the companies, in the sense of reworking these sad stories, if access to these archives is guaranteed. It is therefore appropriate to welcome this provisional protection. We call for a separate vote here, and to this extent we shall agree. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The monument protection cannot be a one-way road to the public and at the expense of the owner of the monument. A sub-mind protection position means a significant load also for the individual. We therefore only find it fair and cheap if the individual not only receives a financial burden due to the obligation to maintain, the restriction of sales, but also a better creation in tax terms. We therefore demand that the owner of a monument be exempt from the basic tax. This is very important, especially now, where the historical gardens are included. We of the liberals are pleased that this under-remembrance position of the historical gardens is included. I think it is important to note that the one who has a monument is not just the stupid one by granting a certain tax relief in so far as his monument, his property, is freed from the basic tax. Therefore, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15426	The final resolution is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Cap, with a welcome speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15451	I think we had a detailed opportunity in the Committee on Culture to deal with this matter again. I think it is very, very important for our cultural identity that there are really sensible and effective regulations in this area, namely in the area of monument protection. I believe that this is largely guaranteed that the suggestions have been received in many areas, in particular the wishes of the Committee on Historians. We also discussed the question of the concentration of proceedings, the decisions of the trader, the operational use of listed objects and, as is expected, the use of the party position of the Federal Office. I believe that there has also been a very comprehensive and very plausible explanation in this respect. A very sensible law has been drawn up here in a very constructive form. I would like to stress once again that we have really worked together in a very constructive way to present this result, and hope that it will really be implemented and implemented to the satisfaction of all.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15484	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15505	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High – decimated house! For Liberals, the association change, further development is always a positive one. That is, as it were, part of our sense of life. Nevertheless, monument protection is important for us. I am saying 'despite that', because the protection of the monument is more about the association of conservation and the like. I am saying this because monuments as witnesses of the past have a value, but above all they also have monuments. I even think that monuments are the most meaningful historical sources. However – and this is what you have to see, and this is also the access to legislation - there is a tension relationship of monument protection on the one hand, dynamic urban development on the other, old building maintenance against new building needs, but above all – and this is very important to us liberals – there is also a tension relationship to property rights. In this context, I would like to quote a few sentences from the opinion of the Austrian Bar Association, which I quote because I share this opinion. It is an opinion that refers precisely to this tension ratio and to property law – I quote: "Since under-protection greatly restricts the economic possibilities of the owner, according to the principles recognised for any expropriation, it is essential to provide for an appropriate compensation for the owner in order to make the drastic consequences of the monument protection, the withdrawal of the usefulness of a good. Unfortunately, no such compensation was provided for in the present draft." – Not even in the government template. "In the case of cultural property, the grant of an export permit is currently only at the discretion of the Federal Office: The Bundesdenkmalmamt “can authorise” exports – or not. This provision does not make it possible for the subject-matter of the law – the exporter of exports – to foresee how the Federal Monument Office will decide in individual cases. Also in the new draft – in other words, in the government template now to be decided – "this state-of-the-art is held free of charge by the Federal Monumental Office. Despite the massive criticism expressed against the previous Monument Protection Act and the Export Prohibition Act, the present draft of a ‘new’ monument protection law, apart from some minor innovations, is a re-announcement of the previous laws. If this draft were to be adopted in this version, the important opportunity would be to create in this area an objectively appropriate new rule of law, in line with the principle of the rule of law, an important area of justice." - Quote. I rarely read from opinions or newspapers. I only think that if, in particular, the assessment process concentrates on the essential points focused on opinions, and one shares them, then one should also deposit them here, not only in order to support one's own opinion, but also because – and this is the meaning of a review procedure – in this assessment process also the synergies of the stakeholders, the stakeholders, the various ministries, and this is the result. I say to you, Mrs Minister, that I think this is so bad – and therefore my commitment to the protection of monuments – because I believe that the effectiveness of the protection of the monument is very much determined by what the attitude of society, what the attitude of the people to the preservation of cultural goods looks like. And a corresponding attitude of the population, the individuals, the individuals who either have to stand up for it or make a contribution to it – and whether it's about tax performance – will only reach you if you can guarantee them the rule of law on the one hand, but on the other hand, on the other hand, do not give them the feeling that the state has a value, but the loads have to carry the others. All of this together, as I believe, not only constitutes an insufficient acceptance for the protection of the monument, but also a consciousness that fails to shape you in the right direction. No one can understand it if the state only announces something, leaves the room as open as possible, and the individual/the individual is left unclear what he/she has to expect. That is why I would also like to read something from the opinion of the Constitutional Service. I do not want to deal with all too much with the undetermined legal concepts. In this case, in my view, Member Krüger rightly mentioned that the many terms used here – quoted as Constitutional Service – are "a source of legal uncertainty and therefore of cost risk". "Constitutional law is decisively opposed to such an accumulation of undetermined legal concepts with regard to Article 18 B-VG." – I don’t think it’s possible to say it more clearly. It is true that these are all statements relating to the ministerial draft. And I already admit that you have changed some of it for the government template – but not enough. That is to say, the criticisms that have been put forward here are also valid today, even after this government proposal has been presented. Then I would like to mention something that bothers me. This government coalition has opened up an uncultivated assessment period, which is no longer even perceived. That is, even in this law, the assessment period was very short. ==References== In November 1998, the draft arrived at the Federal Chancellery and the end of the assessment period was 3rd. ==References====External links== It is really impossible for the bodies concerned to draw up a serious opinion on such a "waschl" at this time. That's not possible if you want to make it serious. But the review process has a meaning, it has a democratic policy, it has a legal meaning. And that's why it's just not all right, how innocuous You're doing these achievements – and I'm really saying: Achievements – legislation and legislative process. That all points to one attitude: We have a two-thirds majority anyway, we can do whatever we want to do here, and then we hardly do anything more or no more with arguments. And that is why, Mrs Minister, I think, there is no reason to agree with such a proposal, which also contains positive things. I am saying 'permanently positive things' because, for example, I have a positive view of the fact that park and garden facilities can now also be placed under monument protection. I think it was good. I also think that this institution is a positive part of the concentration of proceedings in itself, because the Bundesdenkmalmamt is not only a constructive support for the preservation of cultural goods and monuments, but also often has a completely inconspicuous, inhibiting influence on certain things. And so you should not shave things over a comb, with a lot of positive there are also negative things. The concentration of proceedings can therefore be a step in the right direction. See, now I'm even the defenseman of the Federal Office again. Although the Bundesdenkmalmamt has a party position, my fear is that, if there is no acceptance of this problem in society as a whole, the representatives of the Bundesdenkmalmamt, even though the Bundesdenkmalmamt is only taught in a way that it is hardly touching and therefore hardly able to fulfil all of its tasks, as it would be necessary, to think: Although we have a party position, if that is not the case, we will not send anyone, we will not nominate any experts at all and let it run. So that this practice could also enter, I am quite afraid, depending on how the signals are given. That is why we would have made the proposal – but I do not make the request here in plenary; we discussed it in committee, and the acceptance was not there – and it was quite reasonable to include a provision that the Federal Monuments should at least be heard. - Well, it didn't happen. I would just like to say that I also see positive things in this government proposal. On another point concerning the provisions on the authorisation of exports. I also see this as positive and believe that in this case the liberalisation of the existing export ban law makes sense. Moreover, the EU has also contributed to this. That was always an aspect for us liberals, why we wanted to see ourselves as a member of this community, because we knew that positive effects of deregulation are also associated with it. We did not know that this government was more interested in transporting its own political unculture to Europe than in using it to make a deregulation. In this case it has had a very positive effect. But I still believe that it is not far enough and that legal certainty is not sufficient. The fact that there are upper limits of value that are set so that I assume that almost everything is subject to export authorization may not serve as much as it should be. Above all, the concept of law is again indistinct here. The Monument Office may grant such approval. I don't mind giving the competent authorities a margin of time. I think it is quite good that we do not regulate everything up to the last and down to the smallest. But if such cumulation of the undetermined terms is combined with a canned determination, then it becomes dangerous. If it is said to be "public interest" – we all know what can be subsumed under public interest – if it is said to be "respective reasons" and I do not know everything and then another can be determined, then I do not believe that legal certainty – namely, legal certainty for the export advertiser and the export advertiser – is served. But that should be the task of a law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Just one suggestion: We should also discuss whether this institution, as it was introduced in Germany, namely the management of lists, is more desirable than what you have now thought of with your catalogue, which is to be completed by 2006 or 2009. This may also be a variant, but those lists, which are also publicly available, in my opinion, bring quite a different information to those and those who are interested in such a cultural property, namely, a forward-looking one. You know what risks you take and what you can expect. I would think this was very useful. Last point: They know that in July in London, the objects of art will be auctioned that have been restored to Rothschild's heirs. I believe that Austria might well be interested in bringing some art item back to Austria. I ask you: What precautions have you taken in this regard – apart from the fact that the restitution was overdue? For example, have you thought of a special budget? If you're in Do you have any budgetary arrangements at all for your place of business? Have you had discussions with fellow experts? How will you react to this auction taking place in London in July? Or do you feel that you don't have to worry about it anymore? I would be very interested if you would explain this to us today on the occasion of your opinion. As a reason why we will not agree to this proposal today, I should like to repeat a quote, in which case again from the Constitutional Service: "In summary" – he says in his last three lines – "it can be said that it is not advisable to introduce this draft as a government template. Rather, it is recommended to develop a modern design of a monument protection law in the sense of deregulation." Although you did not submit this draft as a government template, you did not do one: They have not taken the opportunity to present us with a modern draft law on the protection of monuments for decision-making. And, unfortunately, for these reasons, we cannot agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15608	Mr Morak has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15629	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Of course, we are different from you. We will be happy to accept this bill. Let me make a few remarks on the subject of monument protection, which is to mediate the term "remembrance protection". I believe that a semantic problem also plays a role in this. The term "remembrance protection" means a form of inactivity, no offensive, no commitment. Somehow the term is unynamistic. But the opposite is true. Applied monument protection is an essential booster for the working world and secures jobs. Think of restoring old buildings! For the renovation of these buildings, highly qualified craftsmen are necessary, namely for the renovation of the wall, the piece, the iron, the fine art, the wood, the tapisseries and so on. Work is not substitutable in this area. So that means we need every single worker there. A multitude of know-how flows into the various cultural techniques, in the various work techniques, in the various forms of knowledge around matter and, of course, also for the construction industry. Secondly, We are talking about values: historical values, aesthetic values, but of course also ideal values, including the value of the landscape, for example in the protection of monuments: That is, the buildings we know, which are listed and which will be listed by 2009, complete a landscape. They convey a different sense of life, a different sense of space, a sense of security, the human measure. It is also clear that people come to Vienna for Schönbrunn, the Karlskirche or the Belvedere rather than necessarily because of the building Am Schöpfwerk. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Especially not because of the Hundertwasser-Haus!]] I remember a quote from the sculptor Hrdlicka, who said: If one were to take away the monuments in Italy, no more Italian would find their way home. Most of the monument is financed by private individuals and the church and belongs to private individuals and the church. That's about 75 percent. 25 percent are in public hands, with the most cost-intensive, logically because of the Cuba. So if we listen today on the radio, on television to the church exits and therefore pay fewer and fewer people church tax, that means that in the medium to long term an investment link will come to us. You shouldn't underestimate that. At present, there are still excellent business-like pens and monasteries that can maintain themselves due to the production they have there. But it may not always stop that way. In principle, the historical substance is an increasingly important part of economic and creative meaning. Only the economic power of the various companies and the various housekeepers and a usage concept for these buildings allow the state to have a budget approach that we now find. I'm just saying a comparison here: The restoration of the Votivkirche will cost 480 to 500 million Schilling. The budget for the monument protection is 150 million schilling. So the proverbial drop on the hot stone is a waterfall against it. In this case, the funds are either dramatically increased, or we need to find a fiscal approach. This has not only come to my mind, but it is up to everyone – except for the Minister of Finance, that is what we have to say. Let us remember: In the area of monument protection, 1 S 10 S, i.e. the tenfold amount, and the funding is up to 10 to 11 percent, and the Minister of Finance recovers through VAT. I believe that in the future, we will not be around either increasing transfers in the medium to long term or, of course, better for us, creating a new tax incentive, e.g. the removal of VAT on work done in the context of monument protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15665	Mrs Dr. Petrovic. Also voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: 2!]] 2 are sufficient. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15694	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In terms of content, I can handle practically all Mrs. Dr. Join Schmidt. I had just expected more of a monument protection law around the turn of the millennium. What I miss above all is a more dynamic approach. I do not know that this draft has also been tried. It will be seen how much is possible in practice. I would like – but I know that in times like this one does not correspond to the trend of the market – that it can also be done against an obsessive owner or a owner who avoids the implementation of the interests of the general public for the preservation of cultural objects for certain reasons, because of the protection of monuments, i.e. in the sense of a maintenance or even restoration obligation. It seems to me that the memorialists often undermine the finished facts. What I expressly highlight and find positive, and what I was very pleased about, is the possibility of also worthy of the impact of famous artists, who as objects are perhaps not necessarily worthy of maximum protection, now. I think that this passus can be applied particularly with regard to the so-called Klimt Villa in Vienna Unter St. Veit. I also know that the people who met there this week have been very pleased that an appropriate request is under way. Especially when I think of Vienna and the work of Gustav Klimts and the fact that it is the last Klimts place of action that still exists in Vienna, to which foreign tourists are piling daily, then, I think, this clarification is particularly important in the explanations and the reference in the text to the historical documentation. For reasons of time economy, I am saving myself the demand for a separate vote on it. As I said, I think this passus is very positive. I hope that the future fate of the Klimt Villa will now be sealed in the sense of preservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15731	Mrs Gehrer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15752	Mr President. High house! I believe that another important step has been taken in the right direction with this Monument Protection Act. First, we have achieved EU conformity with the export ban law that we have now adapted to EU directives. Exports are easier. However, we still have the opportunity to intervene in the case of objects which could be exported by means of a monument protection procedure, in the case that it is important for Austria that they are not exported. Although there are limits to oil painting, there are also water borders, it is still possible to protect particularly important cultural objects using a monument protection method. I also think it is particularly important that we remove uncertainties with this monument protection law, namely the uncertainty about what is by law under monument protection. By the year 2010, lists are drawn up where all buildings in public possession are listed under monument protection. This eliminates the legal uncertainty that every public building is automatically protected. I think this is a very important step. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also pleased that we have introduced economic efficiency as a criterion. I think this is an important step. A monument must also be able to live. I believe that it must always be the case that certain economic criteria must also play a role in the case of a listed building. In this context, there is the partial protection situation which has not existed in the past; another important step is also. I am also pleased that, as a criterion, we have introduced the special historical contexts, which can also be a reason for putting something under monument protection. We have taken the opinions, the opinions that have come, very seriously. If you compare the first draft with what has now been presented, you will see that many changes have been made, very many provisions and more detailed explanations are included. But you can't describe everything exactly. If you have historical, artistic and cultural criteria, you can't really fix everything up to the last detail. We have really tried to take all the objections seriously. I would really like to thank my staff, Mr. Ministerial Councillor Dr. Hilfgott and Section Head Dr. Wran, for it was a lot of work. It was a lot of work to create this law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that this law can be passed today. I am pleased that we can also put the historical gardens under the protection of monuments with our own procedures. I am pleased that we have a broad agreement and that the point with the archives gives us even wider approval. Monuments shape our landscape. Monuments are an important part of our tourism industry. Monuments are an important part of the identity of a people, of a country. I am pleased if we can contribute a little more to the preservation of our monuments with this monument protection law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15807	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15829	Mr President. Minister! In my view, the current Monument Protection Act contains six important points; You already mentioned them in part. One is the Export Prohibition Act. The second is that according to § 2 para. 4 the legal presumption of the protection is removed and, instead, until 2010, the Bundesdenkmalmamt creates a cataster in which the monuments are rewritten. The third point is the partial protection of monuments. Another point is the extension of the monument protection to historical gardens and parks and the creation of a constitutional provision. A total of 56 such plants exist in Austria. This is important in that the historical monuments and the associated parks form an inseparable historical unit. A bit of a problem is § 5 para. 8. The objective of this scheme is to concentrate the proceedings, with the decision on the role of the protection of monuments in the future of the trade reference. This is the only one where I have a certain fear that this will not prevent the protection of the monuments. It is important to add that, although the Federal Office has experts and is also party to it, there is a certain problem in it. Last of the Monuments Fund according to § 33. There would certainly be a better dosage. But overall, the novelle is a successful novel that continues the monument protection and really rounds out the law from 1923. To do this, please congratulate you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15862	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15883	Mr President! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! With the new Monument Protection Act, which you will decide today by the majority, as we have heard, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, do not even think of it as a monument. This government template, which I hold here, covers 234 pages and is almost three inches thick. But by far it does not keep what it promises at first sight. For comparison: The previous law was seven-sided, the Bavarian Monument Protection Act, which I have acquired, is also placed on seven pages of printing. As a teacher, Mrs. Federal Minister, you probably taught your students the old principle in the past: "Quantity is not equal to quality." The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, which has already been quoted several times today, has come to the same conclusion that it is soberly established with regard to this draft – and I would also like to quote from the opinion, and I quote literally: From a legal point of view, the draft is not the beginning of a modern system, but rather the end point of a long, ever more casuistic and complicated flood of regulations. Instead of an expected modern restructuring of the monument protection right, an old version of the Monument Protection Act, enriched by many quantities, is essential. In view of the open possibility of a new beginning in the protection of monuments, it is advised that a text which is ultimately outdated and legislatively overshadowed should be submitted to Parliament. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This law certainly does not take into account the protection of collections as unity. Nor will you, Mrs Federal Minister, be able to ensure the protection of cultural goods in the case of war with these antique provisions on the Hague Convention. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From the way you have responded to my questions in the Committee, especially the question of how you want to ensure this protection by means of monument protection panels, I was given the impression that neither you nor your experts in the Ministry were informed about the Swiss GIS system or about the coordinates on civil and military cards in Switzerland. You should take an example, Mrs Federal Minister – and I am now going to conclude – to Mr Klima and Mr Wittmann, who originally presented a completely inadequate archival law, but in the meantime had it revised and, in the next week, presented to the Constitutional Committee, I think, a suitable archival law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15936	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e15957	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I'm tabling an amendment. In view of the scale, Mr President, I ask that this request be copied and distributed in the hall, so that I have to read only the essential core. [[The speaker briefly spoke on § 3 para. 5 and Art. Paragraph II. 1 of the application; the whole application contains the following text.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am pleased that we are thus transferring 56 gardens to federal competence, i.e. those gardens plus objects that correspond to a total work of art and that the afterworld must be preserved. The present amendment ensures that, in the case of private gardens, under-protection can only be carried out with private consent, in order to avoid undue interference with property rights. I am also pleased that this novelle has fulfilled a desire of the Historical Commission, namely to place the company archives under monument protection in order to secure them to the afterworld – provided that you want it and it finds your consent, Mrs Federal Minister. I also assume that the negotiations on the archival law, which will take place at the Federal Chancellor's Office in the future, will also be conducted in a spirit of commitment. Among other things, this is about saving and opening up those archives that concern the former or still existing state enterprises. Let me make another comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the comments of the assessors, which are criticising the work of the law. These are often one, as I think, of a rationally narrowed access to the legal system, which is not adequate for modern legislation. In Austria there is another legal culture, also another legal tradition, Mr Kurzmann. They cannot, therefore, transfer to Austrian legislation one to one the laws of Bavarian monument protection, which intend to afford and retain something else. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: I was not concerned with the contents, but with the scope!]] Also, you cannot transfer the scope because the Monumental Protection Act in Bavaria does something different than with us. We do more and therefore more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also think that the statements of the constitutional service of this fact, ignored this knowledge and partly committed themselves to a radically rational scientific understanding, as was the case with the Vienna circle around the turn of the century for very specific approaches to science. In some opinions, I had a lasting impression that she was more of a speech police undertaking and didn't really try to understand the meaning and intention of the law. By the way: If we did not bring in and adopt this amendment, then an important task, which was overlooked by the Constitutional Service, would not be fulfilled, namely that of maintaining constitutional entry into force. A key note: It was to be taken into account the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court, and therefore the bill has developed into this complexity. And so thick is it only, Mr Kurzmann, because we could not get a printed paper from the State Printing Committee until the Committee was consulted, but only the manuscript of the section, for which I expressly thank myself. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16181	Mrs Dr. Brinek referred to an amendment and read it in part. The amendment has a rather exceptional scope. I have therefore requested that the request be duplicated and distributed to the Members of this House. He's on trial. I now give the floor to Mrs Povysil. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16205	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the short speaking time, I would just like to deal with a detailed problem of the Monument Protection Act. In Austria we are rightly very proud of our archaeological finds from the age of old, whether it be Carnuntum or Lauracum or Flavia Solva. In the case of inner urban constructions, remains of urban areas from ancient times are often found, which above all allow us one, namely archeological evidence of the location and construction of the settlements at that time. There are very detailed legal provisions in the protection of monuments, according to which these finds must be immediately secured during construction work. But how does reality look? Let's take the example of Graz. There was an old facility in the area of the old North Gate. At this point, a beautiful new hotel complex was built. It was built quickly. The Federal Monumental Office of the competent state government was fully charged. The time was too short to pass on an archaeologist for this construction project in time. The construction project could therefore not be stopped either. The old North Gate or the foundation of the old North Gate was destroyed in favor of the new hotel complex. In spite of good legislative measures, theory and practice are far apart, Mrs. Minister. As long as there is not enough staff and as long as there is not enough budget resources to continuously accompany new urban construction projects, many cultural goods will be eliminated in order not to delay construction projects within the meaning of the builders. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a result, urban archaeologists depend on suspicions in their work, and the exact archaeological findings, the precise archaeological plan of such an installation, is lost. In view of the understanding of our country as a country of culture, Mrs Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this abuse, and I would also like to ask you to take the necessary human resources and budgetary measures to remedy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16251	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16273	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Monument protection and thus the Monument Protection Act may be a marginal theme for many. Nevertheless, the cultural heritage and especially the architectural monuments are an integral part of our life! Many of them have become the term, symbol for a city, for a country, yes for our culture. Monument protection and monument care have the task of preserving the monuments, the cultural heritage. The monuments have economic importance in two areas, namely first as targets for cultural tourism indirectly through their detour profitability and second, directly as an employment potential for those who are particularly busy in their maintenance and repair – a very wage-intensive market! This will preserve traditional craftsmanships and craftsmanship techniques, and will create important insights in the field of architecture, as well as in the field of art and cultural history. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== On the occasion of the 75th anniversary. The Bundesdenkmalamt presented the brochure last year with the title "Saved. Monuments in Austria". I congratulate the editors on this brochure, it is not only graphically well designed, it also reads content almost like a criminal novel. In each case described, whether the Hohenbrunn castle in St. Florian in Upper Austria, the bridge on the Vienna line, the basement district in Heiligenbrunn in Burgenland, the Daringerhof in Sieveringer Straße, a lignite conveyor tower in Fohnsdorf in Styria, the theatre on the Vienna or the Antonius chapel in Großhöfflein, these are each objects which were standing shortly before the demolition and could only be saved in the last minute by the interaction of monument protection as well as private and public investors. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you know what an apartment costs in Daringerhof?]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to time, I do not want to address this novel in detail, that has already been done by my previous speakers. I would like to say, in principle, that by means of this Monumental Protection Act, we are creating instruments which make it possible for our monuments to be sufficiently protected, while at the same time preserving the rights of the owners better than before. Well-preserved historical sites have become targets of growing cultural tourism with their cultural range. According to the World Tourism Organization, 37 percent of all holidays also have a cultural aspect, the annual growth rate for cultural trips will be 15 percent worldwide by the year 2000. Ladies and gentlemen! Saving the cultural heritage for the future is a challenge for all of us, for owners as well as for the Bundesdenkmalamt! But it is also a social obligation! The monuments belong to all of us, so we all bear responsibility for them too!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16308	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Preisinger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16330	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The historical gardens and parks in Austria are partly in a very bad state, both public and private! Day after day, partially irrevocable values are lost. It is therefore urgent that the historical gardens and parks be protected as a cultural heritage of Austria. Although there is a higher position in the protection of monuments and cultural goods in Austria, it must not go far enough that private property is completely subordinated to public interest. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because this de facto corresponds to expropriation. Dem The owner is thus taken almost any possibility of a change of moveable monuments. In addition, the owner of a cultural property in the state of the law is in a truly worrying way forbidden to sell this property freely. It would therefore be real – once again! – urgently necessary to weigh here and to address the public interest to the personal, private and economic interest of the owners. Unfortunately, the draft of the new Monument Protection Act does not take these concerns into account at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Similarly, economic use is severely restricted by the owner. In the case of such massive private-owned interventions, it would therefore be urgent to pay the owner adequate compensation. As we have already said, therefore, the state must not make expropriations without financial provision. To conclude: For these reasons, the Monument Protection Act in its present version urgently requires revision. The FPÖ cannot therefore accept this draft. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16382	Mrs Ablinger came to the floor with 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16403	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Morak said he would be happy to accept this law. It is not always a good thing to vote in favour, but I can agree to this law. Why not rejoice? – I believe – and this is also a criticism of the constitutional service – that this law is partly very difficult to read and contains unclear wording. I think that this criticism is justified. However, for many other reasons, which have already been mentioned today, I can agree. One point was specifically mentioned: I find the provisional protection of archivals correct and necessary, it was also a special wish of the Historical Commission in connection with the reparation of forced workers. I think that is right and, among other things, is also a reason for my approval of this law. You, Mrs Minister, have said very well: Monument protection must live! I think that is a very crucial point. There are large and interesting historical industrial plants in the UK, which – protected by the National Trust – illustrate the history of industrialization. It would be interesting to realize something like this in Austria. Another last point: In my opinion, a task and challenge for monument protection in Austria is communication on the ground, which is sometimes very difficult. In the discussions on the World Heritage Site in Austria, for example, we have seen that there are often different views between the protection of monuments and the local population. You can still work on it, I think. Something more interesting than that: Mr Morak has established a link between church leavers and the necessary investments in churches. I found that very interesting. So either is the future slogan of the church "Don't go out, otherwise our churches will fail!" or there may be a special responsibility for the protection of the monument, Bishop Krenn, who is often mentioned in connection with the withdrawals. Maybe we can sort this out sometime in a conversation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16444	There is still a second speech by Mrs Dr Schmidt. Madam President, you have seven minutes to speak in this debate. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: One to two minutes!]] So 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16473	I know that this is not an hour of questioning, but there is probably also a debate to give this Parliament some sort of information and perhaps to answer a question in this context, especially if it is a question whose answer is in the public interest and perhaps not only in the interest of a group in this House. I think it is quite clear that it is in the public interest to know whether you, Mrs Minister, concerning the auctioning in July in London of the restored objects of art, which we give to the Rothschild family – late enough! – have returned, have taken precautions. I'd be interested. I do not expect you to tell us precise strategies now – I already realize that this would not be good – but I would at least like to know if and - in gross ways - what causes were taken. I know I can't get you to answer this by means of business regulations, but I thought it was a fairness act that, as we are just talking about it, you have a relationship and the question lies right in front of us, telling us something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16507	Mrs Gehrer, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16528	Mr President. High house! It is a very important question whether the state of Austria is able to acquire some of these important works of art again. Some months ago, there was already the proposal to set up a so-called National Foundation, which has been able to make such purchases out of resources from various areas. I particularly support the proposal for such a national foundation. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] A discussion with the Federal Chancellor will soon be held. I believe that the National Foundation is very important that we quickly establish it and quickly acquire the resources needed to do so, which the operators of this National Foundation have put into question. In addition, there is currently a discussion on whether it is possible to participate in some auctions with additional budget resources. There are some museum directors in this regard. However, I must say quite clearly and clearly: No provision has been made for this in my budget!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16567	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report was not required. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We first voted on the draft law in 1899 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment by Members Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr and Comrades. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have also asked for a separate vote. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts affected by the amendment and by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law and the amendment mentioned above contain constitutional provisions, and therefore, first of all, in the sense of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, define the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 25a. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of § 25a of the draft law, as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr and Comrades, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I note the unanimous adoption. Deputies Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 5 para. 5 to be introduced. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. [[Call: § 3 para. 5]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Rules of Procedure! With us is § 3! So we don't have to repeat it!]] What did I say? [[Call: § 5 para. 5]] I apologize, that was a mistake. I repeat that Members Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 3 para. 5 have been introduced. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. This request has been adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Feurstein, Mr Dietachmayr and Mr Comrades. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a sign to be given to this effect. - That's the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitutional law. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their agreement to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft is adopted at third reading by a majority of the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades on the free movement of monuments. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Culture to take note of his 1900 report of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, may give a sign. – This awareness is mostly taken. The report has been accepted by the majority. 17. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Government Template (1831 of the Supplements): Federal Law, which amends the Federal Equal Treatment Act, the 1989 Procurement Act, the Federal Law on the Organisation of the Universities (UOG 1993), the University Organization Act, the High School Organization Act, the Academy Organization Act 1988, the Federal Law on the Organisation of the Universities of the Arts, the Civil Service Law 1979 and the Contractual Service Act 1948 (1915 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Equal Opportunities on the resolution 906/A (E) by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on measures to facilitate Fatherly Care (1916 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 951/A by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Mother Protection Act 1979 and the Parent Care Vacation Act 1989 (1917 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Equal Treatment on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 920/A) by Mrs Volker Kier and others on the use of languages in the gender field in Regulations (1918) 21. Point report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on amendment 1039/A by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Labour Market Service Act 1994 (1919 of Supplements) 22. Point report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 716/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and Comrades concerning a Federal Constitution Act amending the B-VG (1920 of the Supplements) 23. Point report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on amendment 146/A by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Party Law, the National Council's Rules of Procedure, the Club Finance Act 1985, the Federal Law on the Promotion of Political Education and Journalism 1984 and the National Council Election Regulations 1992 (promoting the participation of women in political life) (1921 of the Supplements) 24. Point report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 147/A by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act as amended by 1929 (1922 of the Supplements) 25. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Second Report (III-179 of the Supplements) of the Federal Government on the state of implementation of equal treatment and women's promotion in the Federal Service (Equal Treatment Report) pursuant to § 53 of the Federal Equal Treatment Act; Reporting period: 1. Years 1996 to 1. July 1997 (1814 of the Supplements) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on the motion for a resolution 959/A (E) by Mrs Schaffenrath and others on the founding offensive (1815)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16700	We now come to points 17 to 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. For all these points, there has been no oral reporting. We'll start with the debate. Mrs Edith Haller spoke with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16730	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As you have heard, there is a matter for the Federal Equal Treatment Act and another nine agenda items for the debate. I would like to focus on those points which prove perfectly and clearly that this equal treatment committee is becoming more and more an Alibi committee, which I personally very much regret. I would like to begin with the two motions 906/A (E) and 951/A, which we could not have given our consent to in terms of liberties. But what happened? It is referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment without having to reach an opinion on it in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. They are simply referred to the Social Committee. On the agenda of the last meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment in this period on 30 October. They are, of course, no longer to be found in June, so they are practically lost! In addition, Amendment 951/A required a repetition of the vote, a so-called reassuming decision, so that the allocation was at all possible. All these are things that we cannot accept from the opposition from the political point of view of democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Amendment 147/A concerns compatibility of family and political activity. This is a six-month transfer option due to the birth of a child and a subsequent new assignment of mandates. We liberals would be very much for this! But what happens? He is assigned to the Constitutional Committee. Of course he belongs to it, but he also falls into it! In addition, it is not necessarily true that a request if it is actually assigned to the right committee has an opportunity to deal with it. I will prove this to you in the next episode. We will demand separate votes on the government template. It has not become a big throw and rather a toothless one, but it contains points that are also to be supported on our part, such as those measures and sanctions which appear in the face of sexual harassment, especially harassment by third parties. We are also in favour of the fact that, in the event of suspicion of sexual harassment, the announcement of the Disciplinary Commission must be sent and not only can and that the same has to be done at universities. And we are also in favour of involving legal practitioners in this complex. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, you can certainly remember the case of Seitz-Brandstötter, in which it was about re-occupying the management of the department I/A/8 in the Ministry of Science. At that time, in the case of perfectly high qualifications, a man was preferred – by chance, of course! – the brother-in-law of the mayor of Vienna Dr. Häupl. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That was a cleanery!]] This was done despite the same qualification, and the equal treatment committee, which has recognized that injustice has occurred here. But nothing has happened! When I drew the attention of the Federal Minister in the Committee, she smiled and said that there was nothing in this respect and that she knew nothing about it. However, we already have a request in this respect – untreated! ==References== In the Constitutional Committee on April 1998, Mrs Federal Minister, of course, has also taken note of your ministry. Once again, it is clear how necessary it would be to give applicants for functions and jobs the opportunity to use legal remedies in higher functions. I can't! One can see again, therefore, that, under socialist influence and under socialist direction, the Austrian women's policy will not come out, nothing will be implemented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Only authorities will be installed there!]] That is why I have another request which I am not going to make and which I am going to make later.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16794	Mrs Haller has tabled a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supportive... – Please apologize! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She didn't!]] I note that the motion for a resolution has not been tabled; it has not yet been read. The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16826	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Equal Treatment Act is getting its own new section on universities with today's novel – I would like to stress this extra because I believe that this is particularly important. We therefore make special provisions, but only in the sense that the regulations of the Federal Equal Treatment Act are adapted to the university area. I would like to thank all those who have been very committed to this, first and foremost Mrs Sebök, who has been very committed to this matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention that in the Committee we have adopted a resolution on the legal practitioners, teaching practitioners and those doctors who are in medical training who are addressed to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education. It calls for the regulations of the Federal Equal Treatment Act to apply in these areas as well. I think this is very important. This would result in the establishment of a scheme for women concerned in all areas of the public service for which the Federal Government is responsible. I would like to comment very briefly on the two proposals which, unfortunately, the Committee on Equal Opportunities is not responsible for doing so, we are going to refer them to the Committee on Social Affairs. In terms of content, I would like to express my sympathy with many points contained in this report, but the committee responsible is, as has been said, the Committee on Social Affairs. I see a problem in the fact that the Committee on Equal Opportunities does not have many competences and would like us to have a right to submit opinions. This is not possible at present, because this is not provided for in the current Rules of Procedure. Perhaps a change in the next legislative period is possible. I would also like to mention the Greens' request for a term of office to be left for six months but then to have a right to return. We have been discussing this for a long time, and there is also a certain sympathy for this concern. However, new and other proposals have been put forward, in particular the consideration of whether a representative could be selected in the event of illness or in the event of a serious accident on time. However, there are so many problems that it is not really possible to deal with them enough in the short time available to us, so the allocation to the Constitutional Committee took place. We cannot accept the request for party financing to be linked to a women's quota. We have discussed this with international experts, unfortunately there is nowhere we can take over. We also believe that it is up to the parties themselves to consider how they become more attractive to women, how they manage to get interesting and, above all, enough women on their lists. I think this is an issue that will be quite up-to-date in the coming weeks and months, because there are national elections at the door, and the parties will have the opportunity to prove that they are women-friendly and that women give them due weight in politics.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16876	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e16897	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present equal treatment law, which is passed today, is a long wait. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, there are only a few improvements in this, and the existing problems are still prolonged. The Equal Treatment Commission remains an inefficient instrument, as in the case of proven discrimination, in order to reverse post-occupying and also recognise compensation, it would be necessary to upgrade the Commission to a sanctionable authority. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] At the same time, the equal treatment officers should be up-to-date by including them in the design of the alerts and taking into account the application documents. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this respect, we are today also presenting a resolution on the extension of the rights of equal treatment officers. For us liberals and probably for all who take women's concerns seriously, the government's proposal is also an example of how women's policies are still neglected. Mrs. Dr. Hlavac! I would also like these women's issues to be discussed in the election campaign. But now, if we rely on them to speak in the election campaign, but then they will be turned back, the women, I believe, have nothing of it! Ladies and gentlemen! Women's policy on the way to equal treatment in the Federal Service required an extensive revision of the Federal Equal Treatment Act. The second equal treatment report on which the debate is being debated also shows the urgent need for innovation. It provides information on the implementation of equal treatment and the promotion of women in the Federal Service. And unfortunately, we must note that there has even been a deterioration in the individual ministries in recent years. Women are hardly in senior positions, we hardly find them in councils or commissions, because there are almost exclusively men, and comprehensiblely well-dominated posts remain closed to women. The report also shows that the equal treatment officers have far less rights and opportunities to be effective. In summary, "woman" can say that the respective department managers must give concrete targets in order to bring more women into management positions and management functions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This report confirms to us that there is still a long way to go towards genuine equality in the Federal Service. We could shorten the way today if you gave our request the approval I would like to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17037	Madam honourable Member, excuse me! You have now read the amendment correctly. You have a motion for a resolution... – Forgive me. [[Abg. Mother: He's already been brought in!]] This always ensures confusion: independent, selfless. I would like to point out that the amendment, which Mrs Mother has just read, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the debate. As the next speaker, I shall give Mrs Rosemarie Bauer the floor with a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17067	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to the debates by the ladies of the opposition, I see today's decision on the revision of the equal treatment law as absolutely not negative, it is a question of taking action today which the equal treatment officer or the equal treatment lawyer has proposed, which results from her practice, believing that her duties can be made more practical and tangible by means of a change in the equal treatment law. In the short term, I would just like to mention a few points. In this context, I refer to the following change – this is about the public service –: There is now a comprehensive notice period for all the functions and jobs associated with a career rise, the so-called "retirement obligation" also for those positions which are not advertised, so that the staff also see what opportunities there are. I see the granting of a claim for compensation well solved insofar as there is no limit to the top. However, the minimum of three months is absolutely justified. I would like to say: Of course, you can be licensed as you want, but this is about tax money, that is, it does not even happen here to someone or someone who is hurting, but here it is only about the fact that these deduction payments are actually paid out of tax resources. I also welcome the removal of the possibility that, in the event of sexual harassment, the Service Authority may refrain from transmitting the disciplinary ad. In this respect, we are aware of many cases in which this applies, i.e. those cases which are simply neglected and run in the sand. And I also welcome – and that is, I believe, the most essential point, at least for me – the relief for women regarding the burden of proof that sexual harassment can only be made credible. In this regard, a lot of suffering has already arisen, so I believe that we are very much in favour of the ladies concerned on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on two more requests, on the one hand, concerning the link between party financing and a women's quota: We are already in the process of accession, and I must say honestly: This is so difficult because the parties have different models for the layout. We all wish for a very high rate of women. The pressure can also be generated differently. We do not know whether the proposal would be effective. Because if we chose the model of positive support, some parties would probably not reach the women's quota at all, because that would be better for them. With regard to the vacation of half a year for female mandates, I say quite openly here: I'm an elected representative, I'm a constituency officer, so I'm really elected by the population, so to speak, from the base. My colleague smiles because she knows that. I have to say quite honestly: I am very right that there will be an examination by the Constitutional Service, because we should not give up what we have achieved in this way very easily. It is hard, especially for women, to obtain a mandate in this way. And we should also look in the interest of those who would then represent us to see what legal protection would have given them. That is why this should be well examined in the interests of women. In both cases, it is about women, either about the mandate itself or about a follow-up; of course, this also applies to men, for example in the case of illness. I therefore see no error whatsoever in the fact that we have allocated this to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17119	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. I'll set 10 minutes of speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17141	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would very much like to discuss the request that I and my colleague Pollet-Kammerlander and the whole Green Club, namely that of linking the rates of women to the promotion of parties or clubs. In spite of the concerns expressed in the Committee, I considered this to be really groundbreaking and important. This also applies to the other questions raised by Mr Bauer, namely, the desire of women to exercise mandates, and, on the other hand, the need to obtain a greater need for protection also recognised by the legislator for women or single women who may not have the right to remain in their own club. This is a field of tension I would like to discuss. I am, however, in the light of the situation that I can now only present our amendments to you in time. I therefore simply criticise the fact that, despite the very rich debates in committees, there was ultimately no substantial support for necessary quota requirements by government policy. I now make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] That means that with men's domains like the AMS it would be over with this request, and I think that would be necessary! [[Quoted print version removed]] "Five" means five months' compensation if a woman is wronged. [[Quoted print version removed]] We want a continuous public invitation to tender in order to avoid any disadvantage on women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I know that this request was at least partially taken into account in a joint resolution. Nevertheless, I think we can or could do it directly. Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say: It is a novel of which I say that it is actually cheap and poor at the end of this millennium. As I said, If we continue to progress in women's equality at this rate as before, it will take, for example, 200 years in the university sector, and I keep it with the motto: Better be entitled to justice than later!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17356	All five amendments tabled by Mrs Petrovic are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm with a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17380	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I only address the Federal Government's Second Equal Treatment Report on the state of implementation of equal treatment and women's promotion in the Federal Service. This report is much more extensive than the first. It is particularly gratifying that all the ministries have now written a report. Nevertheless, I am not really happy with this report. Because there was a lot of numerical material gathered together, and this is also important as a basis for further knowledge. But without a comment, without a view and without a general overview, these naked numbers do not really help. I am missing a summary for the reporting period as well as a comparable overall comparison of women's promotion to the previous equal treatment report. No structural deficiencies are identified and no strategies are proposed to address these shortcomings. Thus, the equal treatment report remains a toothless instrument in the current template, which does little to help. I would therefore suggest that this report on equal treatment should be accompanied by conclusions which should help decision-makers in the offices to avoid the disadvantages of women in the future and to actively support women's promotion. Another proposal would be – and I believe that this would also be a little further in active equal treatment – to meet staff demands in such a way that staff posts will be extended if this is linked to active equal treatment. That would, I believe, be a measure that could be used to achieve a great deal. Now briefly on the content of the report: The fact that the glass ceiling is still clearly recognizable in the Federal Service can be seen in some examples. For example, the proportion of ordinary university professors in the period under review is below 4 percent. And there's a very interesting number: From 1970 to 1996, the proportion of women in Habilitated increased more or less continuously from 4 to 12 percent, i.e. tripled. However, if we look at the development of ordinary professors, we can see that the proportion has fallen from 3 per cent to 1.2 per cent from 1970 to 1980, i.e. even a halve has occurred, and only the value of 1995 corresponds to that of 1970. In my view, it is very embarrassing that, in view of these figures, Federal Ministers ensure that women who are equally qualified and then more likely to move than men, who age professors over it and even call for calls in the transitions of universities, are not supposed to appear in three-way proposals! I mean, that's embarrassing. Because in these figures we can really put up with a lot of professors, including some with regard to the Habilitated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, I agree with Mrs. Dr. Eva Kreisky's statement, which once meant: The structure problem of the universities is the men. I have to conclude, because the light is already shining. I have a lot to say. I believe that we must also pay more attention to the importance of part-time employment, which is, above all, adopted by women. It is also important to ensure that the report is taken seriously by various ministries. In this context, I notice the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, in which there are also contradictions, because there is, in fact, a decrease in female staff in A posts instead of an increase. If you're talking about a success, that seems unreasonable to me. I believe that everything in all is a good basis for using this report. Only the conclusions are missing, and we should work on them!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17436	Mrs Madl has spoken. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17457	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the motion for a resolution is concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This equal treatment committee has already passed legislation in the past, which women prefer on and on their own to regulate a certain need for follow-up. Whether you are for it or not, depended on the attitude of each individual. However, if there is a request to compensate for existing inequality treatment and existing uneven law, then at one time this committee will be wallowed by the government parties, including the SPÖ, which is always called the lawyer of women, who regrets the income shears between men and women and says in beautiful Sunday speeches that it must finally succeed in achieving the same wage in equal employment. Once something happens and an application is submitted – this time it is by chance an opposition party that wants to remove an existing injustice – then it is simply delayed, walled and moved. It is then not even possible to obtain a positive opinion on a request which will then give the committee responsible the power to pass through. I refer to Amendment 951/A. For it is absolutely existing right that, although men on military service or with the German army are time soldiers, the time of their stay with the German army in the calculation of legal claims, for example, is counted on executions. If, on the other hand, a woman goes on vacation in Karenz, that is not the case! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] There you clap! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Now you're amazed!]] With this request from the Greens, this injustice would have been removed. But it is not possible to negotiate this request. First it is postponed, then it is negotiated very late, and then the SPÖ agrees. I do not want to talk about the voting margin, that has already been done by my colleague, Mr Haller. But at least it's typical for the SPÖ: First she wants to be a lawyer for women, one goes out and speaks of injustice of the uneven wage in equal employment. But when it comes to really breaking up existing injustices between men and women, then it is postponed and the whole thing is postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. This is the SPÖ's tactics! The women will thank you, Mrs. Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17526	But now I can say that the motion for a resolution by Mr Haller has been properly read, supported and included in the debate. Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17550	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I read here: "Women are still disadvantaged in science." – You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We know that. But we've known since yesterday. Because a new book has been presented. It also says that "low institutional anchorage at universities" is an important cause of this disparity. Essential other reasons are, for example, growing up in a rolling environment, the tendency to choose, in doubt, the path of subordination, consideration, renunciation, but still have to take care of the conflict resolution. Another reason for this is the fact that care and family work is a matter for women, but which is a major obstacle to the rise. In early years, what is likely to be an intentional achievement, women later become a criminal offence. Then you can also hear in the field of science: The colleague was just habilitating in child rearing! Mrs Wurm referred to the fact that women's desire for habilitation has actually been very good and has been tripled over the last few years. I cannot therefore share the concern and fear of ministers One and Professor Kreisky, who expressed her views in the recently published White Paper on Women's Promotion at the universities, namely that habilitation should be a specific barrier to women because there is an old-boy network and therefore it should be abolished. I believe that women have now learned to face the challenges, and that this old-boy network should perhaps be transformed into a young-scientist network – Male and Female. Only when we participate can we make this transformation. - So much for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very pleased with this paper. Although the Federal Equal Treatment Act of course does not create the world again, it does make a little improvement. My colleague Bauer has already mentioned some aspects and moments of the novelle. I also refer, for example, to a point that seems important to me, namely the composition of service law committees: Women should be represented in the number in which they are also represented in the field and area of competence. This proportionality would also be comparable to another point in the White Paper on equal treatment for women: There should be a similar passage on women's access to research and research projects and it should not be said that a certain quota must be fulfilled, even if, for example, there are no nuclear researchers. An important point for me is also the claim for compensation, which should finally be appropriate, and will present an effective deterrence – as it is called under EU law – so that we cannot say salopp: That doesn't matter, we're already bringing up the basket money, we're paying for it, basically, the woman we've prevented! Finally, I come to equal treatment at universities especially for those persons who are in no permanent service, such as visiting professors, readers, students. We have now extended this provision by resolution to the legal practitioners, the teaching practitioners and the young doctors, so that they do not experience certain fates, as we know them. [[President Dr. Brauneder will again take over the presidency.]] I would also like to point out an instrument which is called gender mainstreaming at European level. I understand the improvement of the Federal Equal Treatment Act as a building block in this regard. This mainstreaming shows that women's policy is cross-cutting policy. Gender mainstreaming is a strategy for systematic review of the impact of measures and their improvement with a view to promoting and fully involving women and men in all areas of society. It is not about adapting women to men or women's behaviour to men's behaviour, but about supplementing classical instruments for equal treatment. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You must say "Mr. Schuster," not "College"!]] I'm saying it. We all learn to do so and, of course, we need to be careful not to lose the long breath. As an element of this supplement, the Federal Equal Treatment Act is considered, and I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17595	Mrs Bauer has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17616	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The second equal treatment report for the Federal Service is very detailed and also shows successful changes from 1995 to 1997. On this report, it is generally stated that the proportion of women in the Federal Service has increased, but in principle in the field of part-time employment. I would like to point out that part-time employment for financial reasons cannot all benefit from it, because it is Alone earner cannot argue with income from part-time work, since the earnings of public servants in the first few years are also lower. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the qualified posts in this report, you can already see that the proportion of women in the managerial sector is minimal. This is certainly not due to the lack of skills among women. It is interesting to compare the individual Federal Ministries and see what it looks like with the employment of women, and I would like to compare two Federal Ministries. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, for example, there is no single woman to be found in the section heads and group leaders. In the department head there are 11 women, but 99 men are facing them. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Who is Mrs. Udolf-Strobl?]] There are 16 women in the Head of Unit – to be read in the report. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: There is now a section leader!]] If the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs is compared with this, it can be noted that there are two section heads, two deputy section heads and three group heads, four group leaders, 32 department heads, 33 department heads representatives and eight department heads. Here we see that the willingness to employ women in higher positions has also been implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The report shows that women are under-represented in higher positions, but their share in part-time jobs is very high. As women generally have only a small share in almost all the areas mentioned in the report, the appeal can only be made to the competent Federal Ministers to raise the proportion of women. The Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs has shown how to do it and how this is feasible. But also in your department, Mrs. Federal Minister, the proportion of women is higher. I hope that in the next report the share of women is more tangible.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17671	Mrs Jäger has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17692	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I welcome the revision of the Federal Equal Treatment Act, but would like to say a few words about the Federal Equal Treatment Report. I consider these far-reaching legal requirements, such as those laid down in the Federal Equal Treatment Act or also in the Federal Equal Treatment Report, but also in the working groups set up by the Ministries, to be a very important condition for us to continue in the implementation of gender democracy in the Federal Service. The Federal Equal Treatment Report – and my previous speakers have already mentioned this – is actually not satisfactory and unsatisfying, because it is precisely – and this shows quite clearly – that men continue to succeed, especially in the positions that promise high incomes and bring high social prestige to be quite clear at the front. For example, when comparing the situation in the foreign office, it is noted that in the last equal treatment report among 69 ambassadors a woman appeared and in the new report among 70 ambassadors now 2 women are to be found. Obviously, an ambassador post has been created so that an additional woman can appear. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: A 100 percent increase!]] Similarly – and this has already been addressed – the situation at the universities looks like there is no rector or dean. I would also like to express my thanks to the Minister for his efforts to ensure that women in the field of science and research are more and more given their place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think two measures in the Federal Service area are particularly important, and these are the training measures for women and also the training of women. Here too, it is unfortunate that the qualification measures have fallen rather during this period of the report. I think there must be more to be done. I also wish for a next report, namely a better comparability of the categories, a better presentation in the form of an overall review – and that has already been said by my previous speakers – and also a better explanation of how many posts have been written, how many men and women have applied and why women have not been taken into account when they apply. This is not the result of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17734	Mrs Horngacher is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17755	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This equal treatment law sets out rules for women's promotion. However, it concerns only women in the public service and the federal service – almost a privilege of these women. We have had an equal treatment lawyer in Innsbruck for some time. I have now asked myself what it is like to see what cases it is particularly concerned about. According to her statements, about 40 percent of all cases she is faced with involve sexual harassment at work. Most of the time it concerns very young girls, and through business visits and debates she is very often able to stop these attacks quickly in a short way. However, I also think it is very useful to do a real work of consciousness, namely that it is not a matter of cavalry crime. In my opinion, the Committee on Equal Opportunities should also take up the hot iron "sexism in advertising". What sometimes happens is not only tasteless, but also incompatible with the dignity of the woman. There has been an application in this regard; it should be dealt with in the Committee on Equal Opportunities and should try to reach agreement across party borders and take appropriate measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not think that the request for measures to facilitate Father's care through a much higher karenz money – about 80 percent of the reference, although with a base and cover – is socially balanced. It would be better to finally implement the bartenstein model "cart money for all". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the request of Mrs Schaffenrath to the Father's Care, I am very disturbed by a wording. This is about the career of the woman, but the sentence "In this way, children only have adverse effects for women" is already worrying. Here children are obviously seen as a disadvantage to women! For women, they mean almost always – most often – happiness, fulfillment of life and joy. [[Abg. Mother: Why for women? Not for the man?]] To promote the number of women in policy: The application, which refers to a part of the promotion of the party to a women's quota, is derived only from the conditions in Vienna. The candidate examination in the constituencies outside the Federal Capital takes place differently. In addition, there is no need for violence on the part of women. It's not the right way for me, because it's a procedure set up from above. Our women's organisations and also our farmers' organisations have made targeted efforts to promote women in recent years. We have been able to increase the proportion of municipal councillors in five municipal council periods from four municipal councillors to 280. We also have a number of chamber councillors. However, it must be said that the situation is much more difficult in the case of the Landtag and the National Council. We try to give women self-confidence and then, if they are in a position to support them, because I think that is particularly important. In addition, it is of course – and this may also be said here – for a woman from the federal states – I think of Vorarlberg or Tirol – to be much more difficult, for example, to be a national councillor in Vienna. Even time is much higher. However, we want to continue to work on a continuous development and provide full support to those who already hold the offices. It should be the aim of efforts to get so far – both in working life and in politics – that it does not matter whether it is a woman or a man. Only then have we achieved real equal treatment if only what use someone brings.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17803	Mrs Buder has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary limit on speaking time: also 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17824	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the two requests – 906/A (E) concerning the facilitation of paternal leave and 951/A (E) on the amendment of the Mother Protection Act and the Parentary Care Law. We have referred these to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, and, as our chairman, Mrs Hlavac, has said, we think they are good at content and can do a lot of things, and we think that it will bring about the future that these proposals, or parts of them, can be realized. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We Socialists too are sorry that only the 1,000 fathers have the opportunity to take advantage of karenz leave. We know that this has financial reasons and fathers usually go on a karenz leave only if the income of the partner, the woman, is higher. We Social Democratic women also have much better ideas and proposals on karenz money and mother protection. We continue to call for the increase in the amount of care, the annual adjustment and, of course, two years for single-parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can imagine an income-related design of the karenz money, with a minimum pension allowance and with a cover. In view of the fact that the pension fund has not been increased since 1996, it would be necessary to increase to 6 000 s in order to make it possible for families and women alike to come out. Today, it is becoming increasingly difficult for many women workers to bridge the karenz age financially. In the case of low incomes, there should therefore also be a family grant. The model of a karenz money for all is certainly a wrong path in social and women's politics. We don't need a distribution of the means with the casting pot! We do not want to get away from the redistribution of female workers. We cannot imagine a departure from the principle of insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For we want women to be able to reconcile work and family, and we do not think that it is women-friendly to push women out of work. Women should be able to decide for themselves. They must not be dependent, especially not financially. We should continue to promote equality, equal treatment and equal opportunities for women. Women's promotion plans are certainly needed to achieve these objectives. Perhaps the third annual report on equal opportunities presented by the European Commission, which is a major success, can be seen as a small success, stating that the 1999 employment guidelines set out equal opportunities for women and men as a principle. Of course, it's always nice for us women to read in newspapers: "Women beat men in top jobs for lengths." – This, of course, is a real pleasure for us women once again. The University of Augsburg has prepared a study in which it means – and I might want to bring that to the attention of the men –: "Women are more open to criticism, place them far more skillfully with others and especially wish for feedback from their employees. They prefer the teamwork and therefore do not fall into hierarchy as much as their male colleagues do." Dear women! Dear men! It's still a lot to do for equal treatment and equality, but I think from this pult it should be more and more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17889	Mr Zweytick is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17910	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! They allow me to keep my remarks a little shorter, since it will be very late again today. I think it has been said a lot about the equal treatment report. My comment on this: Equal treatment includes training and training measures, provision of childcare places, provision and preparation of flexible forms of working time, so that the compatibility of family and work does not remain a keyword. It is clear to me that the necessary changes cannot happen from today to tomorrow, as the measures must also be well thought out and conceived. Nevertheless, I believe that it has succeeded to raise awareness of the many inequalities, which in turn constitutes the foundation for any change and renewal. The numerous activities which have now been set up in the fields of education and training, childcare and flexible working time models are clearly due to the adoption of the Equal Treatment Act, without which this constructive discussion and the many approaches to solving the problem would not have been possible. For example, the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family has developed principles for systematic education and training, to name just a few examples. The employee discussion, in which, for example, the topic of flexible organisation of working time is dealt with because of educational and family work, was introduced. It is now up to us to further develop this federal law, which represents an essential step towards the equality of women and men in the Federal Service, and to eliminate weaknesses. This will happen with today's novelle, which I am very positive about. We must all – men and women alike – be concerned about creating equal opportunities and making it possible to reconcile family and work. This is an important step for me also for family policy, which we particularly accept from the ÖVP. Therefore also in this sense: Carnation money for everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17943	Mrs. Mag. has now been reported to speak. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e17965	Mr President. High house! Let me also make a few comments on the novel of the Federal Equal Treatment Act and the Federal Equal Treatment Report. First of all, I would like to thank all the equal treatment representatives, all contact women and the Equal Treatment Commission very much for their work that they have been able to do since this law was passed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we owe them that they also find good, better conditions in order to be able to do their work. They are always the guarantees that there is still much to do in terms of equality, especially in the Federal Service. That is why, of course, I am also very happy about this further development and about these innovations of the Federal Equal Treatment Act, in which it is essential for me, first and foremost, that we introduce European standards, quite specifically, the removal of the upper limits of damage. On this point, we also needed action. The European Court of Justice has also stated clearly in Hiezu. In addition, of course, the Amsterdam Treaty has also given clear orders to the Member States. The second thing I believe is that, in the Commission's procedure, there is now also a relief, a credulity in cases of sexual harassment, in order to achieve better women's rights in this case as well. Ladies and gentlemen! The legal level is one thing, the concrete situation is the other. For this reason, on the one hand, it takes many good legal measures, but at the same time it also needs a will, a lobbying and a concrete action. There are, of course, many here, in order not to say everyone is required to constantly make the sample of nails in terms of equality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has rightly been pointed out by some speakers that the equal treatment report does not say what we would like to know. I think we should also look at changes here. On the one hand, the report is hardly comparable because there is a constant change in the resorts. Because of this, it is already impossible to observe a place of business constantly, to constantly compare a place of business and to follow developments accordingly. I believe that the next step in the field of public service and reporting should be to make sure that we get through here too to have external users checked what exactly changed in terms of quality. I think that the women's promotion plans are the starting point for this. Women's promotion plans should also be presented and made public much more precisely. Here, too, the equal treatment law has developed further, insofar as it will now also be published in the Federal Law. I would have preferred it if it had actually become regulations. I can only say at this point: For some time now, the social-democratic government departments have voluntarily published the women's funding plans with regulations in the German Federal Law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we can bring this amendment to a close. I think that many, many federal officials, especially the equal treatment officers, are waiting for these changes. I would also like to thank all those who have been so intensively involved in the texting of the negotiations, including Mr Böhm's Council of Ministers from the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Dr. Seeböck, who have really contributed significantly to the fact that it has become a good law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18032	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We do not have the rapporteur's final word, so we are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. The voting procedure will include a long series of individual voting procedures. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on an amendment to the Federal Equal Treatment Act and other laws in 1831 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled supplementary and amending proposals. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have also tabled supplementary and amending proposals. Mr Haller has also asked for a separate vote. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and on the request for separate votes, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I note that the present quo required by the Constitution and also by the Rules of Procedure is given. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled additional proposals concerning the inclusion of new points 1a and 2a in Article I. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Deputies Motter and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I Z 3 § 6 para. 1 refers. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment to this provision just quoted. If you'd like to join him, I'll ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law, now in the version of the government proposal. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on Z4 in Article I, also in the version of the Government template. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Petrovic and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to a recast of § 9 in Z 5 Article I. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Motter and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment to the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 as well as a deletion of the first paragraph. 4 in § 9 Z 5 Article I refers. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule I Z 5 § 9, now in the version of the Government template. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Motter and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I Z 6 § 10, Z 7 § 14 and Z 8 § 15. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment to the previous paragraphs in Article I. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on Article I Z 6 § 10, Z 7 § 14, Z 8 § 15 and Z 9 § 18 para. 2, now in the version of the Government template. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Therefore adopted. Deputies Dr. Petrovic and Comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new Z 9a § 18 para. 3 referred to in Article I. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal, which also refers to the insertion of a provision relating to § 18 para. 3 referred to in Article I. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Members of the Motter and Comrades have submitted an additional request for the inclusion of a provision relating to § 26 para. 1 referred to in Article I. I ask those members of the House who want to join it to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I Z 16 as amended by the Government's proposal. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Mr Motter and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I.Z 23. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are therefore immediately voting on this part of the draft law as it stands. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Members of the Motter and Comrades have tabled an additional request for Article I, amendment to § 45. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I Z 27 as amended by the Government's proposal. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. I should like to point out that the two-thirds majority laid down by the Constitution is present. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you agree with the draft law at third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. I would also like to point out that there are two thirds of the vote required by the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1915. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 196.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on improving legal protection in the tender procedure. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its 1916 report of the supplements. If you take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. I hereby agree with Amendment No 906/A (E) to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of his report in 1917. If you take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. I agree with Amendment 951/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of his report in 1918. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his report in 1919. If you agree, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of his report 1920 of the supplements. So I would ask you to take note of the report. – This is done by the majority. The application is therefore noted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his 1921 report of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his report in 1922. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. I agree with Amendment 147/A to the Constitutional Committee. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of this report on equal treatment III-179 of the Supplements. If you take note of the report, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its 1815 report of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – It is done by the majority. Accepted. That concludes the voting procedure. 27. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1764 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Pensions Act 1965, the Additional Fees Act, the Federal Theatre Pensions Act, the Travel Fees Act 1955, the Federal Teachers' Law, the Karenzwohnungsgeldungsgesetz, the Utilisationsgesetz, the Richterdienstgesetz, the Federal Staff Representative Law, the Land and Forestry Workers' Service Law, the Military Law, the Land Teachers' Service Law 1984, the Land- und Forestry Landeslehrer Service Law 1985, the Bundesfinanzgesetz 1999 (7. BFG-Novelle 1999), the Dorotheumsgesetz and the Pensionsskassengesetz are amended and a federal law on the establishment of a Bundespensionskasse AG (Dienstrechts-Novelle 1999) (1945 of the Supplements) 28. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Act on the Independent Bundesasylsenat (1946 of the Supplements) 29. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (1947) 30. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1852) Federal Law on Tasks and Organisation of the Foreign Service – Statute (1948 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18415	We shall now proceed to items 27 to 30 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. Since there was no oral reporting, we are entering the debate. Mr Jung has been reported as the first speaker. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18443	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current government template, which deals with the Staff Regulations of the Foreign Service, is a more than overdue work. So it was high time, but unfortunately it is not necessarily the yellow of the egg. It was designed very quickly. It would be a lot more to do. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Six years!]] Yes, but with a view to taking influence from us, the possibilities were very small, Mr Kostelka. You know that, too. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That was good!]] We will nevertheless vote in favour of this proposal on a fundamental basis. However, I would like to address some of the points that we consider to be wrong and worthy of improvement. Mrs. State Secretary! A key point concerns the position of the Secretary-General. This gives him a position of power which is actually the same as that of the Minister. If you know that in practice the Minister is on the move by plane abroad, you also know that with this arrangement – and it would not be the first time that it is in the foreign office – the Secretary-General is the actual Foreign Minister. I read the following to you: In addition to his section, he is the immediate superior of all section heads in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all subordinate departments. – So he's not a primus inter pares, but he's practically the first man. We think that this distribution of weights is wrong compared to the political leader. The same can be said about the position of the Inspector General, which is being created here and which is actually supposed to carry out an internal revision, but which should also be given full insight into the political field. I do not know whether this should be the caretaker of each other's political group in view of the coalitions. In any case, it can have such a function... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Certainly not even!]] It can, however, if it must be, perform such a function. Some should not be in such an important area as the Staff Regulations. The telecommunications and courier services are actually implementing matters which do not necessarily belong to such a law. Other points, from our point of view, result in wrong assignments. This concerns, for example, the question of crises abroad. These are very specific rules, which should not actually be made by the Minister, but would be the respective head of the department of the responsible person. Taking such things into account would also mean assigning the responsibility for the security in the message accordingly. There have been significant shortcomings in this respect. I refer to the still open request for the message in Belgrade, or I refer to the 250 missing visa labels at the Embassy in Luxembourg, which is also worth noting. Therefore, there is still a lot to be done in the safety field. A last thing that doesn't matter, as it seems to me from practice: It remains very open as regards the families of diplomats – regardless of which use, whether in A, B or in the lower area – which are affected by the transfers of the spouses. The time-limits with the two months provided for in the Staff Regulations will, I hope, be longer in practice. They are a little too short to take into consideration the compulsory education and other things. Furthermore, it will not always be as badly regulated as it is now that so many messages await it. Another point would be that of the spouses' social care – in the majority of women – who today really look through their fingers in the truest sense of the word. It would be time to allow them, at least in the social security sector – most of them are already active today – the possibility of paying back and giving them a certain reward. Because everyone who knows how things work in the field of foreign service has realized that women's participation – even if one may only see them in the field of climate change – is a very important function if one wants to perform a successful service. For men too, this may increasingly become a question in the future. There will be a need for a change in the financial sector. In principle, we agree, but believe that much remains to be done. Mrs. State Secretary, pick it up!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18505	Mrs Dr. Mertel is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18526	Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. High house! The delays in the public sector are indeed, I would say, almost common, even though we have still not been used to it. We can remember this last time from the contract staff law. Now there is a Novelle Service Law, which is actually a whole bunch of legislative measures. In my view, their focus is on the fact that a further step towards a structural administrative reform is being taken by the withdrawal of the Ministry of Finance from no longer contemporary powers of participation in service, salary and pension law. Further priorities are the improvement of remuneration law, from executive to university teachers, the creation of a legal basis for the establishment of a Bundespensionskasse AG and the implementation of relevant EU directives on improvements in safety and health, especially in the field of agricultural and forestry workers, but also in the field of youth labour protection. This also includes a non-insignificant innovation in the Staff Representative's Act, which includes some substantial amendments. For the first time, apprentices of the federal government are represented by staff representatives, so they are also entitled to vote in the personnel representation. The term of office of staff representatives shall be extended from four to five years, and § 9 shall be upgraded to strengthen staff representation participation skills. However, the PSG also provides for more effective sanctions mechanisms. For example, in the event of repeated infringements of service rights, the Central Committee may, within a certain period of time, request an opinion from the service provider, and if this period is not complied with, the Central Committee may refund a disciplinary notice. Although changes in the rights of service do not primarily serve to improve transparency and procedural acceleration, these improvements are often urgently needed from the point of view of the employees concerned. For example, the new salary schedule of contract staff created the risk that skilled workers, writers and workers of craftsmanship would have received less money during the training phase than before. In the future, this will be excluded by an opponent’s accommodation clause. I do not want to mention other examples for reasons of time. Just one more comment: So inconceivably sometimes after-effects look so important. This concerns, for example, the new link to the appointment requirements for the remuneration schedule (h) of contract staff in order to avoid unwarranted time barriers. Overall, there is a package, which also pays off a number of commitments to the public service. That is why my group will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18573	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18594	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! The materials that are now under negotiation are a loose composition of things that belong to some sort of group. In one point it's even a bit cheerful. First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on the Novelle Service Law and refer to an aspect that is remarkable from my point of view. In the government template we can read in the cover – you know that, since Bad Aussee this is planned –: Impact on employment and the economic location Austria: no impact. I understand, Minister of State. But if a 200-page convolut, which deals exclusively with human resources legislation, and which also has the unpleasant side effect of the fact that the recent manual on service law – which is a very practical reference work – is completely out of date by the trade union Public Service only, if something that deals only with service law on more than 200 pages has no effect on the employment conditions and the economic location of Austria, then it is simply remarkable. So there are no material effects. – But if you read it, it turns out that there are very material effects. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: That's why § 14 BGG!]] Yes, but it has a natural impact on employment and economic location! For example, I ask you, Minister of State: How many officials have been involved in drawing up this comprehensive government plan? – This was certainly employment-effective. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Minister did this personally!]] It may not have been a change in the level of staff, but it may have been a change in employment. That's why I'm saying: One sees that something like this, which in Bad Aussee has been a cheerful thing for improved image care, cannot really be maintained, because there are incredibly many laws in which under this point only "no" stands. That is why I would like to point this out. 200 pages of service law and "no" impact on employment – that is already to be mentioned, is it not, Mr Kostelka? – Look You're not so sad! If you're just marketing, it's like that sometimes. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Moreover, this matter is something we cannot agree with. I would like to make it clear to you that we have talked about this for a long time in committee. Furthermore, we are now dealing with two agenda items, both of which go back to §-27-GOG applications. These are in their salary as far as possible. Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to agree with them in committee, because we had them only one hour before the start of the committee negotiations. But now we've looked at them; they're all right. It is in fact improving the legal standard at the independent Bundesasylsenat. The second request aims to ensure that, in relation to the independent federal asylsenate in the Constitution, the possibility of moving into an age limit with a simple federal law – analogy to the judges. That's all right, too. However, the law with the age limit, which will only have to be passed, is exactly that law, which is novelled in the other §-27 application, namely the Federal Law on the Independent Federal Asylsenate. That is to say, two §-27 GHG requests have been tabled simultaneously, with a material context, but completely incomplete, one hour before the start of the Committee meeting. That is what I wanted to say in plenary so that it does not go down in the parliamentary protocols. It is acceptable, but we will have to make the next novel so that we can make the Constitution in its reworded article 129c para. 4 to be completed. I'm sorry. For this you, Mr Federal Minister, can at least, because this is an §-27-GOG proposal, i.e. no government proposal. But anyone must have ordered it, and he has not thought it quite to the end. - That's what I wanted to say. Finally, I am left to mention the Federal Law on the Organization of the Foreign Service. This seems to us to be gratifications in that it now regulates in clear terms and in a uniform context on the legal level things which have been difficult to find so far, scattered in regulations. That is why this serves legal certainty, and that is good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18649	The honourable Member, Dr König, is also speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. No time limit – right? [[Abg. Dr. König: 4 minutes of voluntary time limit, Mr President.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18678	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to confine myself to the legal status of the diplomatic service. It is an old concern of the diplomatic service. For 25 years we have been trying to do this, and now it becomes reality. I must say that some have contributed particularly much to this. It is the two foreign policy spokespersons, Mr Schieder and our Michael Spindelegger, but of course it was only possible through the strong support of the current Foreign Minister Dr Wolfgang Schüssel and the Secretary of State, who has also accepted the matter in particular. I believe, therefore, that this has finally created the prerequisite for creating an adequate regime for this difficult profession, which is different from all the other departments. It is now something different in diplomatic service, if you spend a lot of time abroad, if you can be moved at any time, if you are also, especially abroad, at any time approachable and must be available – i.e. has a completely different working time – and if the problems with the family are added by changing the school, with the children. All of this is a special difficulty. In today's times of hardship, uncertainty and also of health and safety risks in some countries, it is more than fair that such a statute for diplomatic service has now been created. The second thing I think must particularly mention – Mr Jung said this too – is that it is also a matter of taking care of the family, especially for the wives. In any case, the law takes a first step in this direction. It is planned that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will endeavour to help the spouses in their professional situation as well. This is quite essential because it is incredibly important for integration in the new area. But, of course, this is just a beginning, and it should be extended. What is likely to happen very quickly and should be done is to entrust a corresponding manager to this assistance in the ministry so that this support can be channelled and provided accordingly. Overall, I would like to say that not only has it been possible to fulfil a long-standing desire to do so to those members of the foreign service who are working with a great deal of commitment to their work – and who has always been on the international road as a Member of Parliament – but also to create a prerequisite for successful work and for the possibility of caring for their families accordingly. In this way, the government has taken a decisive step for our reputation abroad and for the diplomats represented in Austria, which we strongly welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18725	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18746	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also welcome the fact that the Statute for Foreign Service will at last be a reality, although it is already apparent that it is still capable of improvement and will therefore also be improved, as you, Dr. König, have already noted. Ladies and gentlemen! I just have a short time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Visoki stupid!]] – If the fact that people are taken the possibility of democratic participation is simply extended the term of office of staff representatives, because, as the explanations on the government template say, the Public Service Union has expressed this wish, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why, stand in there too!]] Why? – Because of greater continuity, so that they do not have to stand for the elections so often, ladies and gentlemen, and so that they will stay in office and dignity longer! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: If you're already reading this, read everything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You say that!]] If someone has an idea of how difficult it is to gain people in the public service for work in the staff representation and to maintain continuity there, so to speak, then he sees the intention of the black union behind it. What she wants to achieve with it is to cement her armchairs, her posts and her power. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I cannot give my approval to the Novelle Service Law in 1999, nor to the remaining Green Members. But, of course, I give my consent to the Statute for Foreign Service.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18848	Mr Pendl is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18869	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer to some of the important points of the 1999 Novelle Service Law. Following the decision on the contract reform law, the pension fund model is now being implemented as another important step. It is used to round off the reform launched and provides a forward-looking solution for public service. Another important element is to take account of the areas of the Court of Auditors and the Parliamentary Directorate, as there is also a new design of the remuneration scheme. I think that these areas also need well-qualified colleagues in the future. This is important, and it is also an important contribution for the Members concerned who have long been waiting for this implementation. In addition, a number of important issues in the field of education, executives and the military sector will be addressed. Questions such as the new regulation – which is also an exemplary, modern system – are also being implemented for school supervisors. Furthermore, questions of training, integration, a new system of half-accounts, pre-service periods, performance premiums, appointment requirements, retention clauses, functional allowances and official title issues are concerned. An equally important part of this law concerns the area of travel fees; administrative simplification is brought about by the fact that travel invoices are only checked by the paying agency. In addition, the allocation fee for a new scheme has been added in this area and a decades-long injustice has been eliminated especially for the judicial guards in regular service operations – outside the service’s service activities. The Staff Representatives Act adjusts or redefines certain organisational issues to the actual circumstances. Mrs. Colleague! We do not see it as a disadvantage to the Members concerned if the term of office is extended to five years. All in all, it can be said that these measures concern a number of important issues which, on the one hand, bring more justice to the staff, on the other, are an important contribution to modern, performance-oriented public administration. As the negotiations on these questions have been very carefully and in detail conducted and have finally led to an agreement-making proposal, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, but above all also your employees for this very strenuous and not always easy work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, allow me to comment on my previous speaker, Mr Stoisits, and also on Mr Kier. I believe that public servants are rare, if ever thanked, for their important work for our citizens, but also for our Republic – which is of enormous importance to the economy and to the economic location of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should also express thanks and recognition to colleagues in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express this here and today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This draft law is an important contribution to a service-oriented, civil and modern public administration. That is why we are happy to agree to this draft law by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18937	Mr Arbitrator has also been mentioned in the speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e18958	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Six comments on this subject. First... [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] Honi soit qui mal y pense, deputies! Point one: I am glad that there is the Statute for Foreign Service now. I think it is important for employees in this area. Congratulations! Secondly, I would have liked to have a little more discussion on whether this statute should not be useful for all those working abroad for the Republic, and not just for the foreign office. I think we have to talk about the extent at all. Some things are right in the field of foreign affairs, some things are running right next door. This applies, for example, to the military attachés; they also ask why they are not integrated. In my opinion, these debates should be held again in the future. Thirdly, I also believe that the Secretary-General has failed a little in this Statute. There are currently no problems among the persons acting, but I could imagine that the relationship between the Minister, the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State – if I now look away from the persons acting – and the Secretary-General could not, under certain circumstances, fully harmonize. Fourth: It's a good idea to shape the general inspector in this way. It would be useful that this is the last post for an official, because then he would be really strong in office. Fifth and last: I believe that many steps have been taken to modernise it, but there must be further follow-up, especially in the field of data.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19007	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19029	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to confine myself to five brief points which are related to an important part of this draft law on civil service law, namely the art universities. We are now deciding on the conclusion of a very large reform project. Together with the reform of the art universities in organizational law and study law, it has also been agreed to adapt the law of service. This draft shall include the conclusion of this legislative act. I would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this extensive matter. You could say a lot about the content. But it is all in the explanatory statement that you have certainly studied so that I want to leave it out at all. I would like to point out one point: In connection with the reform of the art universities, it was also considered whether there should be faculty divisions here. In one case, I would like to make a clear rejection of this project, and that is what I would like to say. Next point: Federal Minister! We have certain problems in university service law that service periods of any kind are no longer taken into account. In the case of vocations, especially of deserving and interesting personalities, which we want to bring back to Austria, there has already been a number of cancellations. We should look at that again. And last: This is not, of course, the right to serve, which is based on the resolution adopted by the National Council in 1997, in which we have given the task of creating a completely new university service right. This task is still under way. However, we are confident that this will succeed, not in this legislative period, but in the next, and that we will have the conditions for modern universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19072	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We do not have the rapporteur's final word. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote and this will be carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft Service Law Novelle 1999 in 1945. There is a request from Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades for a separate vote. We shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately with regard to Rule I Z 54a and Article II Z 21, 21a and 21b, as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, title and receipt, which have not yet been voted on, now in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft the same sign at third reading. – This is the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act on the Independent Bundesasylsenat, together with the title and receipt in 1946 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this bill to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by a majority and is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is once again the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1947 of the Supplements. This draft law is a federal constitution law. I therefore note that the present quo provided for by the Federal Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is given. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is the majority. I expressly note that the two-thirds majority provided for by the Constitution is given. We shall therefore come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is also done by a majority. I note that the second-third majority provided for by the Constitution is also available at third reading. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1852 of the supplements. As this draft concerning a federal law on tasks and organisation of the foreign service contains constitutional provisions, I note that the presence quo provided for by the Constitution and Rules of Procedure is given. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is lucidity. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law at third reading to give the same sign. – This too takes place in a light light. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. That concludes the voting procedure. 31. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1093/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the 1985 Press Promotion Act (1950 of the Supplements) 32. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 154/A by Dr Jörg Haider and Comrades on a Federal Act which repeals the 1985 Press Promotion Act (1951)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19237	We come to points 31 and 32 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We're coming to the debate. Mr Krüger has been mentioned as the first speaker. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19268	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Another President is to be welcomed, currently Vice-President and future President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The right to freedom of expression is one of the most important fundamental rights of parliamentary democracy. Part of the right to freedom of expression is the right to raise the voice via a medium or to issue and disseminate a medium. It is the task of the state to create appropriate framework conditions for media to articulate. What way does the Republic of Austria go? – There is general press promotion, which is not so much in the foreground here, there is the special press promotion which is affected by the proposal for an initiative, and a very special press promotion, which I will then come to speak about. What is the point of this initiative proposal? The reason for its introduction is that the daily newspaper "Der Standard" no longer came to the benefit of the promotion in one year by this law. What does this law mean? – It states that newspapers whose advertising part does not exceed 22 percent of the total amount, to the editorial part, are subject to special press promotion. Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen on the occasion of the "standard" how unreasonable and unfair this principle of press promotion is. What kind of press promotion is this, I ask you, if the advertisers may no longer accept ad orders to turn on by the end of the year, because they may run the risk of losing the press promotion? It will not change this multi-annuality, which is to be decided here. I'm really asking you: What kind of justice to other so-called quality newspapers? I ask you where the justice of the special press promotion remains, if some medium is given here in Vienna 25 or 30 million, whereby I do not mention the party newspapers, the "New Time" of the left half of the Reich and the "Volksblatt" of the right hand side. But I'm asking you: What kind of equality of competition is that? How do the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" get them to compete with leaves, with so-called quality newspapers, that get 30 million schilling a year? How does the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', which also have a total Austrian edition, not receive anything from the title of special press promotion, have to compete with newspapers, which in their balance sheet can record 25 to 30 million schillings annually as revenue? That cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom! And in order to eliminate these distortions of competition, the Freedom Party has requested that this special press promotion be abolished. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are really serious about promoting the media and the press away from party funding – "New Time", "Volksblatt" – then create a media-friendly climate! Then cancel the announcement and advertising charge! 10 percent: This is an Austrian unicum in Europe! Or, however, you allow companies to switch to so-called quality newspapers which have to be published in the Official Journal for the Vienna Newspaper. The Official Journal of the "Wiener Zeitung" or the "Wiener Zeitung" appears practically without the public. One could, for example, make an invitation to tender for a number of daily newspapers. This would also significantly improve the income situation! I could imagine something: The delivery of the house is very important for the media. For example, the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" have a subscription share of 90 percent. For the so-called quality sector in particular, I could imagine that the state is providing support for all the newspapers in the way of Telekom. This would not create any distortion of competition, nor would domestic delivery really work, at prices that are viable and reasonable. Otherwise, the situation arises, for example, that the "standard" must complain of the media print – but it loses – so that it is included in the house delivery service. So even promotion measures would be required here, but the current press promotion goes in a completely different direction. And then there is the very special press promotion that I have mentioned before. This is a political distortion of competition. The very special support for the press consists in the fact that the Federal Government, through its departments, inevitably makes the most important interventions in various newspapers and weekly newspapers, issuing entire brochures – for example, the Ministry of Agriculture in the magazine "NEWS" – and thereby indirectly buying a positive report. I say that quite clearly! I already hear the words, I can already premise that one will ask: What do you think about the independence of journalists? That's an incredible assumption! – Mr Cap! If you are active in the economy and if you have insight, tell me: Which paper does it write against its most important advertisers? That's not reasonable at all! It's not long ago, I remember: During the 1995 election campaign, it was stated in the newspapers that a publisher went to the Greens and said: If you don't make the engagements with us, you'll see what it looks like to you in the National Council election report! – This is a form of special press promotion. With this displeasure is clean! It is about 400 to 500 million schilling a year in connection with these interventions. If it is really serious to you, you will also remove this form of special press promotion!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19339	Mr Dr. Cap. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19360	Sometimes I have the impression that my previous speaker simply suffers from one – as you say in Vienna – "persecutor". Because what you're describing would have a disastrous effect on the newspapers. If you abolish the special press promotion and if you want to set up censorships, who is allowed to advertise and who is not allowed to advertise, then this would have terrible consequences and would result in a mass death of the newspapers! [[Contradict with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But go!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I would really recommend that you do what You have now said, once in the presence of the journalists of the affected newspapers, that instead of going there at night! Mr Krüger! I also have the impression that you have not understood the entire press promotion model at all. It is at all the biggest drama in your remarks that you have not understood this at all. Because the current improvement we are making with the introduction of the stage model really brings about a better creation and eliminates the great injustice. Example: The "Salzburger Nachrichten" were really always across the famous border and were ultimately reset by 30 to 40 million schilling against newspapers such as "Press", "Standard" and others. Now we are trying to sort it out with the stage model or to mitigate it and, in fact, to make it more just. I would like to ask all those who are making themselves there and who are defaming this promotion model for real alternative proposals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] But stop it! This is a completely different discussion that you have started there! He'll start with the house delivery! We should talk about distribution, monopoly and cartels at all. These are very different topics to be discussed in this context – and not your home delivery that you have brought in there. I don't know a counter-design. I would also have been pleased if, for example, one had come together in the VÖZ to present once an chordd draft, which it has always announced. It's really hard, too. Of course, there is a competitive situation among newspapers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There is a competitive situation about subsidies and nothing else!]] There are some who say: Let's do this. Quit it, because we don't need it anyway!, and there are not a few who really need this money. And we want a broad press landscape and a variety of media, which you do not seem to want, for whatever political and ideological reasons! Short and good: It was a cocktail of the intellect you brought in here, and you should really focus on other topics. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yesterday in the security debate you stood up in the Winkerl!]] Versions You here, press and media policy! It has not deserved to be permanently abused by you in this form, Mr Krüger.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19454	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Trattner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19475	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You really can only say: You don't know what you're saying! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I'll tell you something: You yourself know exactly how the special press promotion is divided. "Kärntner Zeitung": 19 million, "New time": 29 million, Vorarlberger Zeitung: 12.6 million, "New Volksblatt": 13.9 million, press: 29.7 million, "Standard": 26.2 million. – That’s one part of it. I will now explain to you the second part of the special press promotion, because you are so well done! – In total, the Federal Government spends another 163 million schillings. That's a nice distribution! The SPÖ, with its ministries, grants 137 million, which is 83 percent, and the ÖVP 26 million. Is that really a little conscious of you? The leader in this whole matter is, of course, the Federal Chancellery. In 1998, the Federal Chancellery issued a total of 71 million Schilling. [[Abg. Scheibner: How much is "NEWS"?]] I'm still coming to "News"! Secondly, the Minister of Transport, who wants to move everything to the rails, lies with 37 million Schilling. You have to look at that! In total, it's 163 million schilling. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Now the newspapers are coming. The Federal Chancellery grants 8.6 million to the "Kronen Zeitung" alone, so that we are on the front page, the Herrl with the Frauerl with the two Hundlerls in the Sunday "Krone"! This is special press promotion! That is where you want to speak in connection with Mr Krüger's statement of censorship? What you're doing is much worse! You're buying the whole press. You buy the ORF and you buy the entire print media! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us now come to the advertisements of the daily newspapers. I have a nice chart here that shows how this divides up, including the press promotion. The top rider is the "Press" with 45 million: 45 million alone for the "press"! And now we come to the beautiful cake. – The "standard": 5.1 million. Red distributed 5 million, ÖVP distributed 1.7 million. In the "format" the color falls away, there is only more red: SPÖ grants 100 percent. Then "News" comes: As we grant 10.8 million, the ÖVP also grants a small amount of 294 000 S, the rest goes to the SPÖ. Mr Cap! What are you doing? You go to the speaker's desk here, insult our media speakers – and don't know what you're talking about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We'll put this black and white on the table! Then comes the nice "profile": There is also a small cake sticker of 138 000 s left for the members of the ÖVP, the rest of which is of course red. Then it goes on: In "tv-media" there is only a small cake sticker left for the ÖVP ministries, the rest is red. And then the hit comes, and then comes: Out, out, out! It's about the ORF now, and there you always act: It's just more red! 54 million schilling! [[The speaker inspects a radiospot of the Ministry of Transport.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] And in view of this, you stand out and want to discuss press promotion, special and very special press promotion!Unknown term type: "%s".? It would be best if you didn't go to the speaker's desk at all and talk about press promotion! For in the case of the bad conscience you must have, you would have to agree to our request for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19548	Mrs Mag. Frieser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19569	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party will give the amendment to the Press Promotion Act its approval. We are committed to promoting quality magazines because they are an essential part of the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The ÖVP still doesn't get anything with it!]] [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They will understand that I am in this Do not interfere between Cap and Krüger. I would just like to give you one example: In Styria a decision was made yesterday, as you could follow in the newspapers or in the "Small Newspaper". The State of Styria has waived the advertising charge and subsequently set up media promotion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the ratio: Press promotion amounts to 45 million, the abandonment of the advertising charge amounts to 115 million. This also corresponded to the desire of the print media. I believe that this steiric example is a good example, and we should also discuss this example in the course of the discussion on advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19617	Mrs Mag. Praxmarer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19638	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Cap, the system of public media promotion is highly questionable. It does not promote free competition. On the contrary! Rather, it is anticompetitive and distorting. It also does not promote freedom of expression and the diversity of press products. Firstly, this system promotes the dependence of the media on politics and government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the speciality, an Austrian specification: Our Austrian newspapers certainly do not need to shyen the European comparison regarding the number of readers. On the other hand, there is nowhere in the European comparison such a dependence on state and political influence and so little freedom for the media. In addition to the general media promotion, the special press promotion is used mainly by those newspapers that are either unable or unwilling to provide themselves and independently with a corresponding economic basis. In addition, as Mr Krüger has already said, the very special press promotion with the advertising of various ministries will provide further subsidies. With us in Austria, the motto is simply: Whoever pays, make it! – I can give you an example. The Federal Chancellor is the living proof of this: In a guest comment in the "Standard", author Robert Menasse dared to accuse the German Chancellor of inactivity, media greed and even lack of education. ==References====External links== ==References== The Chancellor then asked Mr Menasse if he did not know that, among other things, the "standard" still exists, because a certain Federal Chancellor climate is responsible for the fact that the press promotion in Austria is still violent and lush in European terms. - That's the German chancellor. But we liberals wish us independent media! We wish for real freedom and independence for the media, and we are convinced that public press promotion as a public task can be completely waived!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19685	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. A time limit of 3 minutes is required. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19706	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I can make it short and simple: We are missing a comprehensive reform of press promotion, and I should like to point out that there is a White Paper which has been under relative closure for two months now. It is a little bit in the media, but in fact this white paper has not been made public seriously and, above all, has not been taken as the basis for a political discussion. We would like to see a more comprehensive reform of press promotion towards qualitative media promotion. However, today's proposal for an initiative is, at least, an improvement in the direction that there are more reasonable periods of calculation for the old system's view, and we will therefore agree to it. On the other hand, as far as Mr Haider's request is concerned, he wants to delete everything radically, we mean: In this way, we will not help to finance his childcare check! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19739	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Rest of the time of your club: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19761	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The reform of press promotion continues to await itself. What is on the agenda today is a lex for a particular newspaper, although it makes sense to hold it. But it is not a reform, and above all it is not what we expect. I agree with the comments made by Dr Kier on this point. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out to you a fact that I have also formulated in the form of an amendment, namely the fact that there is no way in the Austrian Press Promotion Act to sanction media that violates the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. That's a wish we had. I therefore allow myself to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it permissible for newspapers which report racists who do not comply with international conventions or their spirit to receive taxpayers' money and funding. A provision like this would once and for all stop it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second, ladies and gentlemen: There is an institution that examines whether the newspapers, newspaper publishers, publishers, the radio stations and also television, as well as the journalists, who bear the common responsibility for democracy and their further development, adhere to the code of honor they have given themselves. This code of honor is, as it were, a basis for the work of the Press Council. This press council, which is watching over the observance of this code of honor, will not receive any support. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] 1 million schilling – that's nothing! That would be the basis that the Press Council needs in order to actually have the necessary resources to act independently and not to be dependent on those he examines. Federal Minister! I hope you follow this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19865	The two applications just read have been properly submitted, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Smolle is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19889	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki stupid! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't welcome the Minister?]] Minister! Yes, you should be big and influential – so often the Austrian peoples, ladies and gentlemen. One should be big and influential, then one would be popular and would still be the relevant small money needed for being grand and for being powerful. [[Abg. Steibl: That's what we've heard!]] That is the beginning of my speech, and thank God is one of the most important offenders in this area, Mr Khol, just came into the room. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The end too!]] I am very pleased because I want to address these words to him above all. Mr. Khol! I do not understand why you are slowing down applications in such a way and allowing them to be referred to a dead committee. Maybe you can explain this to us today. We have submitted two requests for the ORF: It is about the ORF's participation in order to make it cheaper for the group of radio companies to produce, because we now have to transfer 7 million schilling of the money that we receive as support to the ORF. It is urgent that members of the ethnic groups should, of course, be appointed as members of the hearing and visionary representation – and this has been demanded by the late President of the hearing and visionary representation. These are my requests, ladies and gentlemen. And what do you do with it, Mr. Khol, while the SPÖ is watching? – You refer this to a committee, but you promised me in spring: Of course, we will negotiate this well and solidly. But now you have, out of cowardice, because you do not want to make a decision, you have put it all into the committee, Mr Khol. This is how you did it with the press promotion for groups of people – into a dead committee, into a dead end! – and make fun of it. This is not a state-supporting attitude, Mr Khol. That's trifle. These are the tricks you've already learned and that you're always better mastering. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is a shame to you as a Tyrolean who knows these problems. You'd have to behave differently. Only out of any personal hostility you may have towards me, put things in the committee! – You have to say that here too. I come back to the introduction: You have to be big and powerful – that is important – then you get money, especially from the ÖVP, but also from the Federal Chancellery. You don't know what you're doing, Mr. Khol. We have tried to deal with article 19 too, have negotiated very intensively, were just before we organized our hearing again in May. But what do you think? – You do not like Professor Maier and Professor Müller, who is proposed by anyone. These are the tricks you're working with. This should be serious policy, and with such policies do you want to win the next elections?- Oh, my God! That's ridiculous! This is not a state-bearing attitude! You will actually get your invoice presented on the election day. I am fighting here, please, not for big things – since 500 000 S, because a million, and the newspapers of the ethnic groups can survive. But instead, you'd rather use other newspapers. I am in favour of press promotion, I am in favour of this opportunity to shape the political landscape in its diversity, including among the peoples. There's supposed to be this plurality. Mr Khol! But you apply this trick of simply putting off any request I make in this context cool. We, together with colleagues Kostelka, keep trying to wake you up and make it clear to you that this is not the right method. But you're going the easy way because you're not happy because you're cowardly, colleague Khol! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e19957	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Since we do not have the rapporteur's final word, we are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1950 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stoisits and comrades submit an additional request. We shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal just mentioned and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of a new Z 2 in § 2 para. 1 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. There is also a need for a vote on the amendments to the terms of reference requested. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, seek a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. [[Abg. Scheibner: First he talks about it, then he agrees! Mr Smolle, you talked about it!]] We therefore come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who would like to give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stoisits and comrades on promoting the activity of the Press Council. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of his 1951 report of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. 33. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1100/A by Dr Volker Kier, Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, MMag. Dr. Willi Brauneder and Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for Victims of National Socialism (1949 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20015	I'll call the 33 now. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We therefore come to the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karlsson. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20045	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In Austria, we are pleased to have facilities that fulfil difficult tasks despite initial skepticism in a undisputed and everywhere – including internationally – recognized manner. Such an institution is the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for the Victims of National Socialism. This is due not least to the commitment, the fingertips, the empathy and the great care of management and all employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today's draft law is, in my opinion, an expression of this appreciation of the good work of this institution. The proposal for a law carried out by all the parties to this House provides for an extension of the activities of the National Fund to allow private services to be introduced into the Funds. It is therefore possible to do so through the recognised institution of the National Fund, by private companies which have to pay compensation to victims of National Socialism. According to a first survey to be read in tomorrow's "Kurier", some companies are ready to do so. It is now up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to pay close attention to the implementation of this proposal, which has been unanimously supported by all the political groups, and to ask them to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20085	Mr Dr. Schwimmer has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The National Fund of the Republic of Austria for the Victims of National Socialism has been set up at the initiative of the National Council and is established by the National Council. In the first four years of his activity, he not only gained high reputation himself, but also contributed much to the reputation of Austria at international level. But the most important thing is: He has restored the trust of tens of thousands of victims of National Socialism in Austria through his activity and performance. He has given many people the connection to their old home in which they have been so cruelly persecuted. The National Fund is therefore absolutely appropriate to carry out a new task. An injustice regime like National Socialism has many facets. It was not only the then state power, not only the then state party, the NSDAP who did wrong, it was also private institutions, private companies directly and indirectly involved in the injustice. It is gratifying that legal successors of such companies today are willing to contribute to the restoration of justice. The National Fund is an excellent instrument to contribute to this change, which we want to take together today, in order to enable any legal entity to grant benefits to victims of National Socialism and to support projects to be accepted by the Fund and to conclude contracts for this purpose. My party will therefore also be happy to give its approval to this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20139	Mr Krüger has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20161	Mr President. High house! On behalf of my group, I can only agree with both previous speakers. The National Fund is an excellent institution. It has proved itself in practice, also thanks to careful management, and it is now time to extend its scope in accordance with the Community application. I also think it is very important that these grants, the so-called burdened companies or their successors to the funds, be distributed fairly, because no one is to do business out of the inexorable suffering. The guarantee of fair distribution is the establishment of this National Fund. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also gratifying that there has been a complete discussion of this problem. However, I should also like to combine the Community's request from the Freedom Party with the hope that the companies which pay into the funds will then be largely exempt from such claims as collective complaints and the like. I believe that it is the Fund's task to satisfy, on behalf of the Republic of Austria, victim organisations in order to ensure that the money is distributed fairly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They have received a request from the Freedom Party that has been distributed so that a reading is not necessary. I can only briefly refer to the core area: The aim of the application is to extend the scope of the National Fund's activities to those of the old Austrians who, either directly or indirectly, have been victims of National Socialism through forced labour or eviction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20203	The amendment, which has just been presented in its essential points, has now been distributed in the hall, has been properly introduced and supported accordingly and is therefore also under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20299	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. The remaining speaking time of your club, Mr. Dr. Kier, is 18 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20321	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can really take a short look. I would simply like to thank you from this point of view for having succeeded in developing a joint motion in a genuine discussion process, which has taken place over several committee meetings, which we can now decide unanimously. It was all said what to say. I believe that today's decision of these funds, which in the short history of its existence has already contributed very much to the reputation of the Republic of Austria, can carry out new tasks and thus will be able to carry out permanent services for the Republic of Austria. In particular, I should like to thank my colleague, Mr Stoisits, who, at the early stage of this project, together with me, introduced the first pilot proposals. As far as Mr Ofner's request, Mr Graf and Mr Hoof are concerned, I believe that the legal link here, which is elected here, is more appropriate for the concern behind this request, because the concept of "old Austrian" is a common language but not a legal figure. I therefore believe that these two matters cannot be linked to each other in this fund. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20357	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. The remaining time of your club is 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20378	Mr President. May I join the remarks made by Dr Kier and thank me very much, especially the employees of the Fund, for what has been done in recent years. I am not a beneficiary, a client or a visitor of this fund, but I have already received so many touching and moving letters from which the great joy is expressed that there is someone who comes from the state, on behalf of the Republic, to victims of National Socialism and, in a sense, asks her for forgiveness – so I would best represent this in my words. I would like to thank you very much for this, and this is also the link to the change of law. I would like to point out the great know-how acquired by the National Fund in dealing with victims of National Socialism in recent years. The existence of this possibility that legal entities can make grants to the National Fund, from which benefits are provided to victims, will, as I believe, also determine the activities of the National Fund in the coming years substantially, because it is still a problem to be dealt with or at least to be addressed once, namely, the forced workers who have not yet seen or received any gestures from the Republic, but also not from where they have been exploited and injured and were often ruined in their health. I think it is a truly good decision that you have followed the original request of Kier, Stoisits and now also create this possibility. The National Fund will continue to deal with us in the next few years. It is not a gratifying occasion, but it is in the sense a good fact for us that the Republic is standing late, but yet to these gestures that are placed there. That is why I am also grateful to you, namely that it was possible to make this five-party proposal in a relatively unpolemic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20412	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We do not have a final word from the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote, and we are voting on the draft law in 1949. Mr Vanner and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. We shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. We are therefore going to vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Ofner and Mr Comrades. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. The draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report are now being put to the vote. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – The consent shall be unanimous. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would also like to give the draft law a third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done in a single light. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. 34. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1712 of the Supplements): Federal Law on Measures for the Conservation of Animal Health in Farms (TGG) and on the Amendment of the Sickness Act, the Cattle Leukosis Act and the IBR/IPV Act (1996 of Supplements) 35. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Report (III-185 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection on the situation of consumers in 1998 (1736 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20492	We now come to points 34 and 35 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We do not have oral reports and therefore come to the debate. First speaker: Mr Salzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20519	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the late hour, I will confine myself to a few comments on the animal health law and to amending the disease law, the cattle leukosis law and the law on IBR and IPV. This government template essentially provides for the veterinary authorisation and registration of establishments and their administrative controls. In doing so, the previous type of animal disease control will be replaced by preventive health programmes, with further provisions being regulated by the federal regulations. At present, the following health programmes and the necessary regulations are planned: firstly, a programme to combat salmonella in poultry in older farms and secondly a programme to combat BVD in cattle. Ladies and gentlemen! As Austria is soon to be declared sick with brucellosis, bovine leukosis and IBR/IPV, it is also planned that the periodic investigations will be withdrawn and that sampling checks will be carried out in the future. For this reason, this draft law is also welcomed by agriculture, which saves costs here. But also the veterinary profession has in principle expressed its support for this law. There were concerns of the Chamber of Veterinars only with regard to an amendment by the government parties, which provided that the head of state may use by regulation not only veterinarians but also other persons for the control of animal diseases or for the implementation of control measures. This has, however, been largely corrected by a committee statement. The Committee notes that, of course, these are qualified persons, such as official milk sample controllers and the like. This makes it clear that animal disease control will continue to be carried out in orderly paths. For this reason, we shall be happy to give our approval to this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20556	Mrs Dunst is also on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20577	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The adoption of this law constitutes an important step towards comprehensive protection of animal health, in particular agricultural animals. As this law also creates legal possibilities for the establishment of effective monitoring programmes, it is also important in the sense of consumers, for people. The current legislation on animal diseases is aimed at actively combating the occurrence of animal diseases, while EU and international standards increasingly focus on preventive health programmes. The creation of a legal basis for such programmes has long been considered necessary by the competent Austrian authorities, but the negotiations have been over a period of years due to budgetary issues. I would therefore like to thank the Minister responsible, Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer said that she was now able to bring these lengthy negotiations to a positive conclusion. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For Austrian agriculture, the regulatory powers contained in the legislation to create EU-compliant regulations are of major importance, in particular with regard to veterinary health programmes. The programmes for the monitoring and control of chicken stocks are certainly intended to strengthen consumer confidence in poultry and to further improve food safety in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austrian agriculture also benefits rules on export and intra-Community trade in animals and animal products in accordance with EU and international health requirements laid down in this Act. The biggest problem that existed in the long-term and lengthy negotiations of this law, namely the granting of compensation for animals to be eradicated in the course of animal disease control, has been a positive solution. Mrs Minister, your commitment is particularly important here, as is that of the staff of the Ministry of Health. This law, which allows for a large degree of harmonisation with EU or animal health legislation, will ensure for Austrian agriculture that the high health status of farm animals population is maintained and improved. – Good for agriculture and farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20632	Mrs Motter has also been mentioned. The remaining time of your club is 17 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20662	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals will give our consent to the present animal health law. – Furthermore, I will shortly turn to the reports on the situation of consumers. These reports provide a comprehensive insight into the situation of consumers and consumer protection. These reports of 1996, 1997 and 1998 are almost 100 000 current complaints and advice cases and phone requests from the observation period of 1. October 1997 to 30. ==References== It can be found that the number of complaints, but also the advice of the report, is increasing. For example, among the industry-specific problems are the journeys that increasingly become the subject of complaints. Although strong competition within the industry has a low-priced effect, there has also been a marked increase in problems in the performance of the services. In the case of legal advice, an increase of 9.2 to 13.2 percent can be observed in the period under review. 86 percent of travellers find other conditions – say: Performance changes – as agreed, before. Changed flight times were at the forefront of the complaints with 40 percent, followed by a 33 per cent standard of hotel facilities, 31 per cent noise disturbance and 20 per cent lack of infrastructure. The hotel could not be obtained more frequently than in recent years. I would like to admit that every citizen has the right to lodge a complaint. But if you know how long complaints take, and if you still have to take note of an unsatisfying outcome, you can understand that the citizen is going to the palm tree in the truest sense of the word. Mrs Minister, there is certainly a need for action. I see a disadvantage in this regard in the listing of the Conciliation Body at the Chamber of Commerce. The question arises whether it should not be reintroduced. In the "Modern Communication Technology" division, the main problem is the opaque payment of fees. Promises such as the price of telephoning in the fixed network have not been met; on the contrary: Local calls cost up to 73 percent more. Only those who call only after 8 am have a lower phone bill. Weaknesses can still be identified in the applicable warranty law. In this respect, the short warranty period of six months and the problem of proof fall into focus. Furthermore, the least entrepreneurs and consumers know the difference between warranty and warranty. This leads, on the one hand, to confusion and on the other hand, to some sellers moving consumers to the manufacturer with reference to the guarantee, although there is a case of warranty. Something should happen, too. I do not think that specific information misses its effect. In the "consumer and advertising" segment, a good progress was made in the pyramid games through a direction-setting OGH judgment. The legislator has responded and has expressly punished chain and pyramid games. Ladies and gentlemen! The competitions are still irregular in the form of pre-losses of a certain chance of winning. Main prices are precipitated under false premise, which appear to be true farmers' stocks. In this respect, the Consumer Information Association places legal requirements, and this statement, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, should be taken seriously. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection is an important matter. It should develop continuously, as the citizen and the citizen are constantly faced with new challenges. This should really be taken into account. Finally, I would like to thank the various consumer protection organisations which have convinced me today of their work on the occasion of their presentation in the column hall.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20727	Mrs Steibl has now been reported to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20749	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to refer to one point in the report on the situation of consumers, namely "food and food". First: We have a pioneering role internationally in our guidelines. This confirms that the Austrian path is the right one, particularly in the field of food and food. Secondly, this report also confirms that we need to work internationally and that, in turn, we need to work more intensively with Austria. This has also shown the debate this morning. Thirdly, This report confirms what we ourselves know, namely that the criticism of the Greens or their actionism is not justified and far from reality. It is not surprising that around this time, no greens are in the hall anymore: They only put up with bodies in the early morning, or anything else, so that they can come on television. Fourth: The report also shows that in Austria we have the highest share of organic farmers, how at all the quality of our agricultural products is the best. I would like to point out that quality should also have a price. Cheap isn't always good! Consumers should know how important and well-agricultural products – both regional and seasonal – are for our own well-being. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means: Buy local products and pay something for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20798	Mr Pumberger has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e20819	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do something quite unusual once in the entrance: I would like to thank the Association for Consumer Information. Because it is really doing valuable work in the field of consumer protection, consumer protection. But I would also like to thank the Chamber of Labour, which takes over a substantial part of consumer protection, namely, as Mr Maier said in the Committee, 114 000 discussions alone in 1998, but at the price of 120 million schilling, i.e. about 1 000 s per consultation. That is, in turn, a quite proud price. But after all, they're doing something! On the other hand, I miss essential work by the Minister for Consumer Protection and her place of business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Yeah, that's it. – For in this report there is no personal opinion of the Minister, there are no perspectives, results from the hundreds of thousands of complaints made to the Consumer Information Association, to the Ministry and to the Chamber of Workers. No perspectives, no conclusions on how to draw them out and close them – nothing! Mrs. Federal Minister! I assume that today is your last appearance here in the House as a Minister for Consumer Protection. We advise the consumer report... [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Tasteless!]] [[Abg. Perfuss: She will be Minister of Finance!]] Well, yes! – In any case, today, at this late hour, this will be its last appearance in this legislative period, and there must be some sort of billing. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have not committed any substantial acts during this period. [[Abg. Fuchs:... at a later hour! Excuse me!]] On the contrary, they have caused great problems for agriculture in particular. When it came to freezing meat – the advertising campaign alone cost 30 million schilling! – you have caused great damage to Austrian agriculture with your intervention. [[Abg. Fuchs: But a benefit for consumers!]] The farmers have not been paid off to this day. Mr Donabauer, you don't know? You're shaking your head? – The advertising campaign alone cost 30 million schilling! The farmer has not seen anything of it, although it has been paid out of the agricultural resort. Mrs. Federal Minister, what did you do there? – It has been shown that frozen meat is frozen for many years and then passed on to consumers. Why is there not a time limit for the maximum storage of frozen meat to be sold to consumers? We have tabled an appropriate request – of course, it was rejected by the government parties. Remember, too, that there is already a labelling regulation for genetically modified foods. Since May 1997, there has been the Novel Food Regulation which regulates the labelling of GMO foods. Since 1997! – But there are still no implementing rules! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Prammer.]] Not yours. You told us in the committee, Mrs Minister, that the regulation is not notified in Brussels. [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer: You're talking about different things!]] You said that. [[Abg. Leikam: He's confusing!]] You also said: If no draft comes from Brussels until September, you will intervene, then you will make an Austrian regulation. [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer: Additives, Mr Deputies!]] And you will do it exactly in September, a month before the National Council election! There you will bring the Austrian population behind the light and adopt a pro-forma regulation. This will correct the EU later, Mrs. Federal Minister! At the choice, all of this will be sound and smoke again, and consumers will not be able to rely again on the fact that genetically modified foods are also properly marked. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Pumberger, you're not paid after time! Can you stop?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! With no word you mentioned the BSE situation in the Consumer Report. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Prammer.]] Why? - But then you don't understand consumer protection, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Posch: The speech has written a greener!]] There is the BSE report of the European Parliament, which clearly states that the danger has not yet been banned. The letter is from November 1998, so it falls within the reporting period of your consumer report. [[Abg. Leikam: Pumberger, who got the wrong speech!]] That is not what you are going to say, Mrs Federal Minister, and that is particularly bad! In addition, you were also very careful and tender in the matter with the USA hormone meat. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Mr President! Talk time!]] [[Abg. Leikam: There's still a bissel!]] So far, you have not been able to get through with a massive action, Mrs Federal Minister. What you've done, you've done half-hearted. What you have done, you have done so that it has carried out the media so that in the eyes of the population you could survive medially. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: That's a blow!]] Efficacy for consumer protection She didn't do anything! That is why I can only hope that the constellation will be another from October 1999 onwards and that we will have a better ministerial representation for our consumers in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21044	Mrs Parfuss has also been mentioned. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21066	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dr. Pumberger! My colleague, Mrs Huber, will replicate your remarks. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Harm around time!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You know, I'm a animal friend. But I am also a human friend, and for this reason I will keep my statements very short. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For my colleague, Mrs Verena Dunst, has given a very detailed opinion on the Animal Health Act. I'm just going to sum up briefly. To whom does this Animal Health Act serve? – It is primarily for the prevention of animal diseases, it is the basis for research programmes to be drawn up in animal stocks, it regulates the compensation for farm animals to which culls have to be carried out for positive findings, and the Animal Health Act provides the basis for the implementation of EU rules. Implementation will only be possible through regulatory empowerments. Therefore, the costs of implementing the investigation programmes are not directly covered by the law. The Federal Ministers of Prammer and Molterer agreed that the compensation to farmers should be financed by public means. 75 percent of the damage suffered will be paid by the federal government. I think that's a fair solution. This law benefits farmers and, ultimately, animals in a wide range of ways. For preventive measures are not only desirable and logical in human health care and increase not only in this area of well-being, but also in animals.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21107	Mr Sauer has also been mentioned on the floor. Similarly, 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21137	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This draft law has finally succeeded in establishing a basis for the long-term implementation of EU directives and regulations by the Federal and Länder Veterinary Administration in the future. This basis was necessary because legal uncertainty had existed in many areas. Legal uncertainty could be eliminated by this law. The best example of legal certainty is the creation of the Salmonella control programme, but also of the BVD programme. Last but not least, this law is given great importance towards consumers, because it also gives a significant proportion of legal certainty and safety in the purchase of food for consumers. EU co-financing is also provided by this law – and therefore, of course, a national economic advantage towards finance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a traditional cattle export country known for its good quality and the high veterinary status in the international comparison. This law allows for the development of further programmes on a voluntary basis, which, while cost a lot of effort and effort, will again bear fruit in a few years. High house! I would like to thank all those who have worked in this legislative process, especially the officials in the ministry. A cooperation, as it has been in this legislative process, I wish myself in the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21180	Mrs Huber has also been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21202	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It was really something "smooth" – as you called it – Mr. Col. "Art 1" that you gave of yourself. [[Abg. May. Posch: That was a Krüger speech!]] It has – and this can actually be mentioned with great pride – especially during the last legislative period, but especially in the past seven to eight years there has been a whole series of legislative changes to protect, benefit and benefit consumers. I can only refer to a few of them: the novelle to the Consumer Protection Act, the amendments to the Banking Act, Securities Supervision Act, Travel Office Security Regulation, Insurance Contract Law, Builder Law, Part-Time Use Act, the Prohibition of Pyramid Plays, Realtor Act. I could continue these laws in a long line, up to yesterday's decided - which you obviously did not know - EMI, which is about double pricing at the euro changeover. There are obviously other areas where consumer laws are passed. A huge boost has been made, particularly under the Minister for Consumer Protection Barbara Prammer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, the report on the situation of consumers also shows clearly where there is still something to do for consumers. There are, of course, a number of areas, because the market and market conditions are changing rapidly through economic, technical and also scientific innovations. The report, which is now available, is a very representative and important inventory, which also shows where we need to become a legislator. We note – and this is also shown in the report on the situation of consumers – that protection provisions, legal provisions, rights to which the consumer is entitled are therefore not charged by the consumer, because the costs of a complaint or the risk associated with it are either higher than the economic conditions or in no relation to the damage incurred. That is why I consider the activities of consumer protection bodies – the Chamber of Workers, the Consumer Information Association – to be so important, their advisory activities, the representation they perform, and also the model processes and association complaints led by these institutions. I should like to express my warm thanks here on behalf of consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In particular, I would like to thank all those who have worked on this very informative report very much for this. Because of the short speaking time, I cannot go closer – and I do not want to – to address the many areas of the problem that this report entails: Travel, financial services and also food, which has already been discussed in the agricultural debate today. [[Assured by Mr Leikam and Mr Mag. Posch.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was the final applause!]] The most common cause of concern – let me say this quickly, because a third of the complaints in the area of warranty are: ==References== The Directive on the sale of consumer goods and guarantees for consumer goods is adopted on June. This brings an extension of the warranty period for moving things from six months to two years, and, I think, a return of the burden of proof for consumers. I would like this directive to be transposed into Austrian law as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Consumer protection must respond permanently to the problems facing consumers. For this to happen, this report is a very important basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21269	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21298	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the report on the situation of consumers. This report covers 100 000 complaints. Allow me to endorse this report in the light of the fact that, during this period of time, 140 000 complaints have also been made in the area of the Chambers of Workers and that the legal interests of workers co-finance this consumer work with 120 million schilling a year. One could comment on the individual problem areas – time is missing. On the one hand, it is a cross-sectional matter, on the other hand, there are problems in the area of the individual local authorities, both in the municipalities and in the countries – when it comes to questions of the smokers – or also at the federal level: on the question of access to justice, on the question of how to resolve the problems, for example, if a patient has been mistreated, if a misdiagnosis has been made and she is treated with chemotherapy, although she has no cancer. These are challenges for consumer policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me add five more points. In a global economy, global consumer rights are needed. [[Abg. May. Posch: Global thinking, global action!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo!]] There's no such thing as that at the moment. Our concern must be to fight precisely in the context of the transatlantic dialogue on these rights and not to accept that certain information rights of consumers are restricted under the WTO. [[Demonstrative applause and bravo rum at SPÖ and ÖVP as well as at the liberals.]] Mrs Bundesminister, there are other aspects. We will discuss these in a personal conversation. The colleagues want to go home. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Admission!]] High house! Consumer protection requires basic state funding. I would ask you to continue to support the Federal Minister in her efforts to support the Consumer Information Association.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21372	Mr Schuster is also on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21400	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, Members are accustomed to go forward and leave under applause. That is why I thank you very much for this! [[Demonstrative applause with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Vorschüßlorbeeren!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's day has begun with a health issue. There were reports from the Federal Minister Prammer, there were reports from the Minister for Agriculture, and now we are dealing with a health issue, namely the 1998 Consumer Report. [[Call to the liberals: We know that, eh!]] [[Rejoicing]] [[Call to the liberals: We know that too!]] It is true that in this period - and this is the case in the report - there has been an extreme uncertainty for consumers. Why? – There were BSE scandals, there was hormone-treated meat, there was the genetic engineering topic, and today we know there was also the dioxin scandal in Belgium. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We know that! Proposals!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where, in the agricultural sector, the limits of a meaningful economy, which is close to nature, are exceeded by greed and the highest profits, this inevitably leads to a disaster. But Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and this Federal Government has created a seal of quality under the agricultural market regulation, namely the AMA seal. [[Demonstratetive applause with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with the liberties]] I can invite you, ladies and gentlemen, that if you make the weekend purchase tomorrow, you will take into account the AMA seal. Then you are well advised.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21499	Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21533	Five sentences, maybe six. First: The animal health law has really come about thanks to God. I am pleased, above all, because we are now receiving a regulatory authority to bring about animal health programmes. I think that is in the interests of agriculture and consumers. We will make many very good programmes. [[Demonstrative applause with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the liberals.]] Secondly, I would also like to thank the Consumer Information Association for the 1998 report. What are we doing with this report? – To put in place concrete measures. Mr Pumberger! They have already been in the House of Commons, which I hope will be passed before the summer. It has already been pointed out: distance selling law, KschG-Novelle in terms of competitions, the consumer credit regulation is ready, and there is also the great guarantee right at European level. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tenth sentence!]] We have done all of this in a very short time. I would like to thank all those who have participated and contributed to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21574	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur perhaps wish to speak? - That's not the case. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I would ask you to take the seats because we are entering the voting procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, and this will be carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and receipt of the supplements in 1996. In the case of your consent, I ask for a sign to be given. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This, too, is done with a clear vote. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of this report on the situation of consumers (III-185 of the supplements). If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21649	However, we are now voting on the request to set a deadline for reporting to the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template 1914 of the Supplements to a Federal Act on the Accreditation of Educational Institutions as Private Universities until 13. ==References== In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! We have already voted on that.]] It's in the Croquis. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21684	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades for the establishment of a committee of inquiry pursuant to § 33 of the GOG concerning first of all: In order to avoid the war material law on the export of used weapons by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State, second: incorrect information of the National Council by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State in this matter, e.g. by the fact that it is at Question Time of the 175. The meeting of the National Council claimed that the public prosecutor's surveys had been suspended in this case. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21734	According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00176_d7e21770	I am still announcing that in today's sitting the self-employed applications were tabled 1165/A to 1173/A. Question No 6455/J to 6507/J has also been received Finally, a question by Mr Wolfgang Jung, 57/JPR, has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23:34 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is thus closed.
