ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1856	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you to today's National Council meeting, and I would ask you to take the places. I'll open the 168. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. The official protocols of 165. Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. In April 1999, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies, and is therefore considered approved. For today's meeting, the following ladies and gentlemen have been reported as preventing: Deputies Gradwelt, Dr. Karlsson, Verzetznitsch, Blünegger, Dr. Brauneder, Mag. Barmüller, Mag. Peter, Mag. Frieser, Gatterer, Hans Helmut Moser and Dr. Mock. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1893	The Federal Electoral Authority has informed me that the Members of Parliament are allowed to do so. Johann Ewald Stadler and Ing. Walter Meischberger waived her mandates and now Mrs Mag. Karin Praxmarer and Hans Sevignani were appointed to the National Council. Since the electorates of the said countries are present and these are present in the House, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After the reading of the vow formula and by name call by Mr. Auer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I now ask Mr Schreiber Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1917	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." May. Karin Praxmarer.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1935	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1951	Hans Sevignani.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1966	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e1981	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2009	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2157	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration at the beginning of today's sitting of the written question 6217/J by Dr Van der Bellen and friends to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the death of the refugee Marcus Omofuma. The business rules for urgent handling of this request are in place. I shall therefore call upon this urgent question at 4 p.m., within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 5584/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2181	I should also like to say that, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a request for a brief debate on Question No 5584/AB on Question No 5907/J by Mr Magistrate. Mr Stoisits and his comrades concerning the abuse of a black person on the occasion of his arrest in the area of the subway station Schottenring by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Since, as has just been announced, the urgent debate on a written question has been defined for today's meeting, this brief debate will follow. For business treatment, Mrs Dr Schmidt has reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2211	Mr President. High house! For the first time in the history of the Second Republic, a person who was in the police custody has been killed, through the influence of illegal forced measures by police. On behalf of my group, I would like to express our regret that this is not a reason for the Minister of the Interior to make a statement on his own, but that he must be forced to speak and answer this House through a urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2246	A business proposal has not been submitted, so it is not possible to apply for a debate either. [[Call to the Freeman: That was not for business treatment at all!]] Mr Kostelka spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2273	Mr President. What Mrs Dr Schmidt has just said was the subject of an opinion in the Bureau, and in this presidency I have expressly stated that special meetings have a logical internal process, something that we have worked out in the Presidency and which is designed accordingly on the basis of a urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it!]] There have been similar cases in the past when a urgent request has been made. In the course of the debate on this urgent question, I have therefore asked the Federal Minister to answer precisely those questions that are asked by the opposition – but not to make a statement before.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2325	No further words are available. I am therefore interrupting the sitting and will resume it on time at 4 p.m. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1.07 p.m. and resumed at 4.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2352	Ladies and gentlemen! It is 16.01 a.m. and I will resume the interrupted session, as announced. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen and Comrades to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the death of the refugee Marcus Omofuma (6217/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2386	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question No. 6217/J to the Federal Minister for the Interior. As this question has now been addressed to all Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2732	I can give the floor to Mr Van der Bellen as the first questioner to justify his question. The speaking time may be determined by § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure do not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Professor Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2753	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Marcus Omofuma had a birthday today. Today he would have been 26 years old. The fact is that this man was in the care of the Ministry of the Interior and that, while he was in this care, he died. He was tied up, shattered like a mummy, and he was in custody and in custody of three small police officers. A court case is under way against these police officers. What about the others? What about the fellows? What about the department heads? What about all the officers who gave or did not give instructions? What about the Director-General for Public Security, the Chief of the Foreign Police? – There is no court proceedings against all these officials in our knowledge. Federal Minister! The small officials who cover the big ones must not be the basis of your policy! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! You swore you didn't know anything about the police practice. They have also explained – I quote –: My chief officials, Sika and Shail, assured me that they, like me, knew nothing about it. – Minister of State! This insurance against your chief officials is diametrically contrary to the statements of other officials and in diametric contradiction to statements by those chief officials themselves. Federal Minister! I believe that you have studied the media reports in particular in the last ten days. I would like to draw your attention to a statement by the head of the Vienna Foreign Police, quoted by the following sentence: It is a very normal process that renitely screaming asylumers of the mouth are bonded with leukoplast. – Minister of State! So that's a normal process. But your chief officials, Sika and Shail, assure you that you have not known anything about a normal process. But these are not the only messages. Very soon: There are dozens of them, and I quote very few of them. The police report says: The process – meaning, of course, the gag – has been applied again and again in recent times. - That's in the "Kronen Zeitung" of 5th. May. Head of Division Kovarnik considers the use of tapes justified! – "Standard" of 5. May. This tape has been used for years, says Josef Kleindienst, liberal trade unionist, according to Presse of 5. May. The bite protection is very rarely applied. We don't dispute that either, says Peter Shaitl, police president, in "Format" No. 19. Director-General Sika: An unusual measure that is only rarely applied! ==References====External links== May. However, Sika acknowledged that such a measure had already been applied several times. – "Standard" of 4. May. Sika: Rarely, but again and again, rejected asylum seekers are so opposed to their deportation that there is nothing else left to officials but to shatter and gnaw them! – "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 4. May. I repeat: Director-General Sika: Very rarely applied; already used several times; nothing else remains for officials. Federal Minister! But to you, your chief officials, according to your own statement, say they didn't know anything about it like you. Don't you see any contradiction in that? You don't feel taken to the arm by your top officials? Or do you overlook these statements, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and say: Would you rather sacrifice the little ones and cover the big ones? Federal Minister! The practice of gag has not been invented 14 days ago and has unfortunately led to a tragedy with fatal outcome very quickly. It's not like that. The practice of gag had to be known to your home for at least six years, and it had to be known above all to your chief officials. I may request a request from the Greens from 17th century. On May 1, 1993, the Federal Minister Lösnak was reminded of the fact that a black African had been suffocated. Mr Löschnak also did not dementate this fragility, but rather, in the answer to the question, justified, for example, by the so-called risk of biting by such objectors. In November 1996 we addressed a question to the then Minister of the Interior, and the Federal Minister One has answered us: Yes, adhesive tapes are present, but only for fettering – literally – can't be used for gags. That is in the answer to the question from the 14th century. January 1997. Director-General Sika said yesterday on the show On the matter: I have not seen both parliamentary questions, they have not gone over me. None of us can verify this here and today, but those requests will probably have been made by anyone. I do not assume that it is customary for the Ministers of the Interior to answer such questions in writing. So who'd they go through? What service meeting, which protocol provides information about this? At the time, at the latest in 1997, did the officials receive instructions? – Federal Minister for the Interior At the time, one expressly said that flaws were forbidden. Nevertheless, we know today that this practice has continued. In addition, these facts are diametrically opposed to what the Director-General for Internal Security, the head of the Vienna Foreign Police and other top officials of your home have said, Minister of the Interior! March 1997: Decision of the Independent Administrative Senate in Styria: The bonding of the mouth with a tape is illegal as it is made inhumane. Does it take even clearer court rulings? – This decision, as "FORMAT" reports, is available in the law information system of the Chancellor's Office, not just for journalists, one wants to think. But no one has known that bonding is forbidden. You did not know, Minister of the Interior, your Director-General, neither the head of the Foreign Police, nor other officials. Not only did your senior officials know nothing, or at least say that they knew nothing, they did not seem to have any kind of injustice on this question either. Director-General Sika said in the "ZiB" of 2. May: The three officials – meant the companions – have not violated any Austrian laws. – He knew that at the time. Or yesterday, in the case, department head Kovarnik of the foreign police said: I don't think anything better than the tape. . So he did not think anything better yesterday, but that this is torture according to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, nor do our top officials in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] You should know it, you need to know it, and you must mainly pass on this knowledge to your subordinates. That seems not to have happened. But this leads, Minister of the Interior, to the fact that, when such a thing occurs, when they are caught, when there is a tragedy, the small officials must believe in it, but the top officials of your house remain unscathed. The chief officials knew nothing despite the parliamentary request of 1993, despite the 1996 parliamentary request, despite the 1997 UVS decision and not after the event in Belgium in autumn 1998. In Belgium, in a similar case, a woman died. What happened then, Minister of the Interior? What reactions did you have in your home at the time? Has there been a service meeting of the department heads concerned? Is there any protocols to this? Is the information up, that is, up to you, not passed on? In particular, have the appropriate instructions been given down, i.e. to the small officials, who then come to the kiss of hands? – If that is the case, Minister of State, I ask you: Does that not mean that your home lacks a minimum degree of political far-sightedness, that in your home there is a dramatic lack of care for the officials who are then in actual execution? – I thought that was once the basis of social-democratic politics. But it is precisely these small officials, who then come to the kiss, that has been left alone in this situation. Federal Minister! At least three levels must be pursued in order to clarify the police's practices and in particular the foreign police. These levels are first of all the courts, second of all a parliamentary committee of inquiry and third of all your house, the Federal Ministry of the Interior itself. On the first point, the court proceedings, I would like to know from you the following: A procedure was opened against the three officials in transit. It took only a short time for the relevant case-law to be heard in the court in Korneuburg. I ask you: What about the fellows? What about the superiors? What about all those in the Ministry of the Interior who have covered these procedures? Where are the facts against these persons? Secondly, Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. If it is not in a case where a person dies, although or because, I leave it to you, he is in custody of the public, a committee of inquiry is set up, then I do not know when a parliamentary committee of inquiry is necessary. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Minister of the Interior! I assume that your group, and probably the group of the other government party, will reject the establishment of an investigation committee today. But what, Minister of the Interior, are you afraid of a committee of inquiry? - I mean you personally. On the contrary: I think you can release the investigation by an independent committee from the hostage of your chief officials, in which you are obviously in. It would be in your own interest to have such a committee of inquiry in this House. If, of course, it is a pity to fear that the government groups, with the help of the liberals, should today refuse to use a committee of inquiry on this issue, then we cannot help but say mistrust to you, Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Still on the third point, on the education work and reorganisation in the Ministry of the Interior itself: There is a direct need for action by you, Minister of State. But so far you have not even suspended the three officials directly concerned from the service, they have only been transferred somewhere. They were not suspended, let alone your top officials, who surprise us every day with different and contradictory messages, statements and descriptions about what really happened, what really happened at the airport, before getting on, what happened in the plane and then at the landing in Sofia. All of this is about hourly new "information" – I put the word under quotation marks – from the Minister of the Interior or from his subordinate chief officials. A lawyer, Mr. Bürstmayr, who was present yesterday in the mission "On the matter" brought this matter very nicely to the point by saying: If the Ministry of the Interior were a physical person, it would have long been in detention in the face of these countless conflicting statements. It must be remembered that that ministry, which is responsible for our security, not only for the safety of top officials, not only for the safety of the white Austrians, but also for the security of the black African people who are currently here, has such an expression of a lawyer. One should not laugh at it, but think: For the devil's sake, he's right! Federal Minister! There is obviously a danger of dating and the risk of being darkened in your ministry. What to Remember You're against it? If you don't mind, it's inevitable that a shadow falls on the police and on your house, a shadow that the police didn't deserve as a whole. I would like to expressly say that here. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! They have today presented a so-called "directive catalogue" for the new deportation practice. Three of these points seem to me to be very supportive and should have been introduced for a long time: Firstly, a pool of officials with special, in particular psychological training; secondly, that every shifter must be examined medically and psychologically shortly before his deportation; and thirdly, the use of tapes is of course prohibited; I take this away at least from today's "curies". Whether helmets instead of tapes are compatible with the human rights convention, I would rather check that in your place. Federal Minister! I don't think that's true. You will not face up to your political responsibility with the foreign exchange "Swirl instead of Adhesive Band". [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Key words "political responsibility": Federal Minister! You said you had offered your resignation to the Chancellor and he had not been accepted by the Federal Chancellor. In doing so, you have included the Federal Chancellor in your political responsibility for the conditions in the Ministry of the Interior, and I think this is, frankly, skillful and not quite unjust – given the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is celebrating a anniversary this year, namely, 50 years of red interior ministry; the four black years from 1966 to 1970 have already been reckoned. These 50 years have finally provided us with the noise attack and the grid fencing and will soon provide us with comprehensive incarnation rights under the new Security Police Act. They have not provided us with a self-understanding of the top officials who are in line with the human rights convention and with the fundamental and freedom rights of the citizens of Austria. In this context, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to mention the following: They are quoted in the "FORMAT" of today with the following statement: "Yes, of course you should be informed, but I probably wouldn't have heard that there are these maladministrations." – Is there anything more revealing than that? – I would be glad if you would comment briefly, Minister of State. [[Abg. Smolle: So you need a committee!]] [[Abg. Koppler: Give a rest!]] [[Abg. Smolle: If we don't know, we need a committee!]] [[Abg. Koppler: Give a rest!]] Regardless of your involvement in the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor and Party Chairman of the SPÖ, the immediate current responsibility for the measures to be taken now remains with you and not with the Federal Chancellor. At least we expect you not to sacrifice the small officials, but with determination to intervene against your chief officials. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2866	I now give the floor to the Federal Minister. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. I would draw attention to the fact that the more elastic wording of § 93(4) of the Rules of Procedure has been chosen so deliberately, because it is possible that a question contains so many questions that one cannot answer them in just 20 minutes, and then the speaking time should not be the reason for questions to remain unanswered. In this sense, I would ask you to make your statement, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2893	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2929	I'll set the clock one more time. I call the Minister of the Interior. . I repeat that the Federal Minister is speaking. [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] I cannot see what bothers the liberals that I give the floor to the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e2984	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before the terrible events in the evening of the 1st century. May I thought a death like that of Mr Marcus Omofuma in Austria was unthinkable. I deeply regret this death and am convinced that all the employees of my department feel the same way. I am personally very concerned, and I would like to express this concern and my participation to the dead. High house! More than two years ago, I entered my office as Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria with the aim of building and not polarizing bridges between the people and their executives, bridges between the department and the officials, but also between the political groups, the department and me as a political person. In recent days, the public debate on tragic death has partly been characterized by very hard choice of words, personal attacks and flat-rate accusations. It is my firm conviction that this kind of political discussion is not wanted by the vast majority of Austrians. Rather, they want a merciless explanation of the circumstances of death and consequences for the future. I therefore see it as my political task and moral commitment to do everything in my power to fully clarify this tragic case and to set up measures to help prevent a repetition of such an event.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3017	Ladies and gentlemen! I would draw the attention of the audience to the fact that they do not have the right to intervene in any way in the negotiations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Let the gallery clear!]] I'm going to insist on this right, and I'm doing it. It should be noted that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there may also be consequences if the gallery intervenes in the negotiations in any form. It's not tolerant! Federal Minister! Go ahead, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3044	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I've been wondering over and over again in the last few days how this terrible incident could happen. I also wondered who would be indebted, whether there were errors, what consequences must be met, and where, above all, my personal responsibility lies. Until a week ago, it was unimaginable for me that the affected person could be closed by tapes when the mouth was removed. Such a measure violates human dignity. High house! High demands are rightly placed on the work of Austrian executives and on their dealings with human rights. This standard applies not only to the individual civil servants but also to those who are politically responsible. That is why on Monday last week I offered my resignation to the Federal Chancellor as a personal consequence. Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima expressly expressed his trust. I therefore continue my work with all my strength. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With a withdrawal, I could easily have distanced myself from any further responsibility. A resignation would not, of course, have answered the open questions, for example, why these three officials have responded in such a way that some people are so opposed to their deportation and which structures and persons have failed, so that this tragic death has occurred. It must first and foremost be about the investigation of tragic death and, above all, about the consequences and consequences for the future and not primarily about party policy. Ladies and gentlemen! In the public debate, the Austrian executive now faces a variety of accusations and attacks. In part, they are accused of extremely flat-rate racism, violence and a "lighter" approach to fundamental rights. Individual representatives of political parties, various organizations and individual commentators have drawn almost a demonic picture of the executive. – I reject all these lump-sum accusations with all repressiveness and seriousness. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and representatives of the liberals.]] The Austrian police and the Austrian Gendarmerie have rightly gained the confidence of our fellow citizens through their good work in the last decades. Therefore, they do not deserve to be discredited in general and flat-rate. Both politics and society expect an important contribution to solving the most difficult conflicts. In my opinion, this expectation is very much in line with the executive's view. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, it is necessary to proceed with all the follow-up to concrete mistakes or mistakes. There must be no misinterpreted corps spirit, beautifications or justifications, because this could undermine the stable public confidence relationship in the rule of law and in the executive. I trust the officials of my department. However, I am not willing to accept or justify misdevelopments. I am not prepared, however, to question the integrity of the police and the Gendarmerie. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] From the very beginning, I have tried to ensure maximum transparency in clarifying the circumstances that led to the death of Mr Omofuma. I acted immediately after the announcement of tragic death. On Sunday, 2nd. May, the knowledge available to us was published. On Monday, an article was presented to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. This made it possible from the outset to ensure that the necessary investigations are carried out by the judicial authorities. At the same time, a special commission was set up in the Directorate-General for Public Security to examine internal processes. I have instructed the staff members of my home to draw up, without delay, complementary guidelines and behavioural regulations for airway deportations and deportations for which resistance is to be expected. These were temporarily suspended. These directives, as they have already been mentioned, have already been notified to all authorities today. They shall ensure those criteria according to which deportations shall be carried out in the future. I have also caused only more highly trained and trained officials to make deportations on the airway. The use of tapes, even for the fettering of arms and legs, I have prohibited without exception. Each shifter must be subjected to a medical examination for a maximum of 24 hours prior to his departure. I have also called particularly to my employees' attention that every deportation must be documented precisely, in particular the application of forced measures. All these measures are intended to contribute to the greatest possible respect for the rights of the people we have to postpone under the laws. However, they should also be used to give the officials the necessary security and lead to de-escalation in difficult situations. However, the implementation of these Directives also depends very decisively on the way in which the different levels of supervision are carried out. In addition, last week I ordered a special examination of all the foreign police authorities under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, in order to clarify above all, but not only the practice of deportations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The vast majority of airway deportations do not require any support from executive officials. In some 2,900 deportations last year, around 10 percent of the displaced had to be accompanied. The situation in which people are in the deportation is certainly a great mental and physical burden. However, it cannot be accepted that the enforcement of the legislation of the Republic of Austria is prevented by resistance. High house! Mr Omofuma's death has been taken by some to call into question the foreign policy of the Austrian Federal Government, whose core is the regulated immigration and the attempt at a human asylum practice. The instrument of thrust has also been questioned by some in general. Let me say a few things about this. The imposition of push and deportation are instruments of the Austrian but also of the international legal system. They are a prerequisite for maintaining the principle of controlled immigration, and they are instruments that allow foreigners who violate Austrian laws and do not voluntarily leave the country. However, a comprehensive legal protection instrument is open to every person concerned. I would therefore like to say clearly and clearly: I recognize the need for deportations. If we want to take seriously the principle of the integration of people living in Austria, we cannot allow and allow an irregular move. In the interests of the people who are exposed to the persecution and state arbitrarily in their home country and who are therefore receiving us, we must ensure that asylum and immigration are strictly separated. Especially in the case of people who are illegally brought to Austria by tractors under unworthy conditions and under false promises, the enforcement of foreign police measures is extremely burdensome for all parties involved. We have introduced numerous improvements and new legal means and methods in recent years in order to elucidate these problem-laden and conflict-related situations. From this point of view, I would like to stress once again that the accusations do not agree that the foreign law situation in Austria has been intensified by the 1997 integration package. Ladies and gentlemen! The exact opposite is the case! With the new foreign law, which was developed and introduced by me as an interior minister in broad dialogue and also in great consensus with political parties and non-governmental organisations, for example, the relief could be created, which serves to accommodate people in care facilities and to avoid the push as far as possible. We have also expanded the care of the displaced by non-governmental organisations throughout Austria, and we make substantial financial resources available for this. In some federal states, this support has also been very well accepted and has led to a significant reduction in the potential for conflict. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the right of asylum and the right of foreigners has made many other improvements, such as the right of temporary residence and the right of temporary residence for asylum seekers during their proceedings, even after the opposition of the first instance. In addition, we have created an independent vocation agency from the Ministry of the Interior, the independent Bundesasylsenat, whose decisions have recently been widely approved by the Green and Liberals. I would like to mention that we have recognised sexual violence as an asylum ground and that we have included UNHCR in the asylum procedure at the airport. A major improvement in the new asylum and foreign rights is also the creation of the Integration Council, in which state and non-governmental organisations are represented and have the task of consulting the Interior Minister in humanitarian cases. More than 200 such humanitarian residence permits have been granted by me alone in the last one and a half years. A first assessment of this new foreign and asylum right by the university professor of public law of the University of Vienna Dr. Ewald Wiederin has failed – I quote – as follows: "For a serious assessment of the Asylum Act 1997 it is too early. A first interim report can already be drawn. It is positive at all levels." Ladies and gentlemen! Officials are often faced with very difficult situations and sometimes dangerous situations for them. This is why special training takes place in the framework of education and training involving human rights organisations. In the long term, the establishment of the Security Academy, whose legal bases are in the novel of the Security Police Act, is of crucial importance in improving the quality of training in dealing with human rights. In recent days, some Members of this House have vehemently called for the introduction of an independent body to review allegations against the executive. Such a body, ladies and gentlemen, namely the Human Rights Advisory Council, is already part of the amendment to the Security Police Act, which is before the House for decision-making. It was my explicit wish to anchor such an advisory board by law, also to discourage the accusation that internal police investigations were ineffective and one-sided. This Human Rights Advisory Council is a great personal concern to me. Although I have repeatedly pointed out this part of the novelle in recent months, he unfortunately found little attention in the public debate. However, due to current developments, I am now no longer ready to delay the implementation of this important institution. Therefore, as a provisional solution on the basis of the regulation, I will realize the establishment of this Human Rights Advisory Council. This Advisory Board will be composed of representatives of justice, non-governmental organisations and the Ministry of the Interior. The first task of this Advisory Council is to, together with the non-governmental organizations, gently explain the tragic death of Omofuma. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the grounds of the urgent request of the Greens, eleven cases of alleged or possible infringements are presented by the Austrian executive. As a result of the short period of time available to my department to answer these questions, i.e. three hours, but also because of the fact that I do not know in detail about every case, it is not possible for me to comment on each individual case. I will therefore inform all 183 Members of the National Council and the public of the results of each case review. I would like to address the questions raised in detail, and would like to point out once again that it is impossible, because of the short period of time, to deal with all the questions in detail as they would in part deserve it. I'm asking for understanding. Question 1: The President of the Police has held that the three officials have been entrusted with administrative duties and that in particular they are not used to carry out deportations. On question 2: A preliminary investigation has already been initiated against the three officials by the district court of Korneuburg. Depending on the outcome of this investigation and any investigation, the decision on the suspension will be taken. Question 3: If there is no suspension, officials will be assigned to another use in the next few days. Question 4: Whether there is a risk of adjudication or a risk of evasion is the judgment of the court. Question 5: The answer is no. On question 6: I would ask that I submit a written reply to this question. Question 7: I do not have any specific information in this regard at present. Questions 8, 9 and 10: I will also submit the answer in writing to these questions. Questions 11 and 12: With your consent, the exact content will be presented to you in writing. I can only tell you that I sent the report of the officials who came to me on Sunday last week to the public prosecutor's report on Monday. Questions 13, 14 and 15: According to the information now available to me, tapes are used for the fettering of the pushers from their own initiative. The tapes are basically a kind of law firm whose purchase and consumption are not statistically covered. On the question 16: President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. On the question 17: According to his statement of practice, Mr. Stoil, the President of the Police, had his mouth stuck, for the first time on the 2nd day of the year. In May 1999, the Commission received information. According to internal investigations, the police president was able to experience two more cases of musculoskeletal musculoskeletal discrepancies. In these cases, the bonding of the mouth of the offenders was applied in the short term to hold back injury to the accompanying officials. On the question 18: I do not wish to make any assessment of the reports and statements of the criminal officials, this is the case of the court. Sika and Swadl have assured me that they did not know anything about gag methods. On question 19: Dr. Stefan Stortecky, Executive Board of the Foreign Police Office of the Federal Police Directorate of Vienna, is also wrongly quoted in the magazine "NEWS" at this point. On the day of the publication of this magazine, he sent me a correcting position, after which he never pronounced the quoted sentence. Dr. Stefan Stortecky has told me that the researching journalist of the magazine "NEWS" has now pledged a corresponding response. Question 20: I refer to the answers to questions 13 to 15. On question 21: The decision has been my and my chief officials since 7. ==References== On the question 22: Lack of knowledge about the UVS knowledge was left to my side with an instruction from the officials concerned. Questions 23 and 24: The answer to these questions has only become known to me on the occasion of the events surrounding this tragic death. Their content was known to the top officials they sent to the respective Federal Minister. [[Call the Liberal Forum: Who was that?]] In addition, all responses to the questions have been received routinely by the section managers. In addition, I would like to point out that in 1998 alone I had to do more than 300 replies to requests from Parliament. [[Abg. Smolle: That is what you should do, Minister.]] These answers come from 1993 and 1996, i.e. from a time when I have not yet been Minister of the Interior. On question 25: No, since I do not have any specific information on such practices until the Omofuma case, and it would have been a clear and obvious violation of human rights. On the question 26: The existence of the CPT's report on his second visit to Austria is known to me as well as to the heads of those organisational units of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, whose areas of responsibility were addressed in the report. On the question 27: Like any other politician, I fly over most of the Austrian newspapers every morning. Specific accusations of abuses by the Austrian executive, of which I experience through the media or otherwise, have me immediately review the respective departments and try to put in place appropriate measures. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot follow all the media reports. On the question 28: The Head of Section III shall not be directly concerned with the implementation of deportations and therefore not be informed of the application of force majeure. On question 29: The top officials Sika and Sthiel, mentioned by me, were not informed as I did about the use of adhesive tapes to stick the mouth. I can't make any statements about my predecessor. Question 30: According to my current state of knowledge, there can be no mention of a long practice of sticking to the mouth. The isolated cases did not come to my attention. On question 31: I and I have never had the impression at any stage that my chief officials have withheld information. On question 32: No justification for torture has been made in any case and must never take place. On question 33: All officials are measured according to the same standards. On question 34: The report that Mr Marcus Omofuma suffered from asthma is not correct in my view. On question 35: This task, I hope, will soon be taken over by the Human Rights Advisory Council, which will have to be taken up by the Council of Europe's Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment on a similar scale to that of human rights. On question 36: Extraordinary appeals do not, in principle, have a suspensive effect in Austrian law. The Foreign Law adopted by the National Council in 1997 does not provide for any exception. Accordingly, in the case of aliens whose stay has been legally determined, no consideration can be given to the deportation of the question of any appeal to the Administrative Court or to the Constitutional Court. In the case of asylum seekers, I therefore consider this to be unproblem, because a rightful rejection decision by the second instance already contains an expression of an independent body, namely the independent federalasylsenate, according to which a deportation into the country of origin does not preclude legal obstacles. On the question 37: There are 11.5 hours available. For human and organisational reasons, it is not possible to provide full access to the police prisoners' house in Vienna. However, in justified individual cases contact is possible outside of these times. On the question 38: The answer is yes. Question 39: To date, police prisoners' officials have been trained to prepare them for their difficult task. In the future, all deportations of officials will be subject to special further training. On question 40: An analysis of the 1997 foreign and asylum legislation shows that there are a wide range of provisions in relation to measures to end the stay and their enforcement, which protect the aliens from an over-seated deportation or other alienation. First of all, a deportation requires, in any case, a enforceable designation or a enforceable stay ban. Already in the procedure for the adoption of one of these permanent measures, the stranger shall have the opportunity to make a request for a determination of the inadmissibility of the deportation to a particular State. Until the final decision on such an application, there is a ban on deportation in that State. In order to prepare a risk forecast, an opinion of the Asylum Office may be obtained. Until the legal conclusion of an asylum procedure, the Asylum Act sets out an absolute protection against deportation. This refers exclusively to the application for asylum and an open asylum procedure. In the event of rejection of an application for asylum, the Authority shall, in each individual case, be obliged to decide whether the rejection, deportation or deportation of the stranger to the country of origin is permitted. As a whole, it is clear to me that each stranger has a wide range of legal remedies which ensure that the case is examined by different, partly non-dispute authorities. Question 41: According to § 10 para. ==References== In May 1999, the order of inquiry entered into force shall be open to prisoners, including strangers who have been held insubstantial custody, to assist a doctor in their medical care at the expense of their choice. This recovery may therefore take place on the issue of the determination of liability and the finding of injury. On question 42: The security authorities shall also proceed with the claim of a criminal offence, as in other cases, even if this claim refers to the fact that the accusation of a criminal conduct is knowingly wrong or that resistance to an official act has been exercised. It is, however, reasonable to ensure that the notice to the prosecutor is refunded not by the institution concerned but by the authority. On question 43: The responsibility to prepare disciplinary standards for decision-making by the Federal Government does not fall within my domain. The suggestion contained in the first CPT report in 1990 was mainly made by § 89 para. 3 Security Police Act. It has therefore not been repeated in the second CPT report. On question 44: The relevant departments of my home are required to carefully examine the relevant complaints. In addition, I intend to entrust a scientific institute with the preparation of a study on the whole problem of dealing with foreigners from a police point of view. But I will also, a few weeks ago, have a very intense dialogue with the representatives of Black Africans in Austria in the coming weeks and months, trying to develop common strategies and measures. On question 45: If it is established under asylum procedures that refoulement protection is to be granted, the temporary residence permit shall be granted a corresponding status which does not exclude the taking-up of work. In those cases where the deportation is impossible only for factual reasons, e.g. through resistance and refusal, the law provides for the postponement of the deportation. With the Xenophobia Act 1997 an integration advisory board was set up for such case constructions, in which cases of hardness were discussed and a solution was provided. I have already mentioned that this has been the case in the last year alone until now. On question 46: This answer can be seen in connection with the question raised in this interview. I have found that it is not possible to review each individual in more than 7.8 million official acts per year and to obtain from each individual knowledge. On question 47: I am firmly convinced that the measures and considerations already taken and initiated by me will lead to the officials receiving the support they have received in the event of deportations in the future. Question 48: Director-General Sika was not generally opposed to the measures mentioned in the question, but merely to negative experiences from other countries which they had in the event of deportations in charter machines with a large number of strangers. Question 49: I have every interest in a comprehensive and complete reconnaissance of the circumstances that led to the death of Marcus Omofuma. Therefore, the independent judicial system was immediately informed of the facts, a disciplinary investigation was initiated, and an appropriate Commission was set up to review them. Now, as stated earlier, I will also, by means of a regulation, create the independent Human Rights Advisory Council, which is intended to carry out an independent investigation. The establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is a matter for this House and its representatives. High house! Finally, I would like to say: I recognise an active human rights policy whose aim must be to consolidate human rights as an integral part of the day-to-day work of the executive. This requires a network of officials to ensure that the executive always undergoes a critical review of its relationship with human rights. The sad occasion for this special meeting should not, however, lead to a question of the Austrian safety executive's efforts. I myself and the more than 34 000 staff in this department want a complete clarification of all the accusations and circumstances that have led to the death of Mr Omofuma. From the very beginning, I have declared openly that mistakes have been made. It is the duty of the judicial authorities to decide on the criminal consequences. It is my duty and duty to draw the corresponding consequences for the executive so that it cannot come back to such a tragedy. The consequence, however, cannot be the demand for a headroll. The overrun attacks against some of my top officials also do not bring us a solution. I invite all those who are committed to a democratic, transparent and rule of law to support themselves and the officials in dealing with their difficult task and to introduce necessary structural changes. We must give the officials appropriate answers to their questions and problems. We must not leave them alone in dealing with their difficult task! The work of the founder of the Catholic Workers' Youth Cardinal Joseph Cardijn was borne by the thought: "We have to start every day!" – If we want to strengthen our rule of law and democratic security executives, we must also start every day to strengthen our confidence in them. The Austrian security executive and I as the responsible Minister of the Interior will do everything and take further, new steps to strengthen this confidence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3123	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3145	Before we go into the debate, I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the incidents that have led to the death of the Nigerian Marcus Omofuma. In addition, I find that of five orderly persons according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to the provisions you know, this debate takes place after completion of the agenda, i.e. in the case of today's meeting after the debate on the urgent question has been held on the one hand and the subsequent debate on the response to the question which has already been made known, on the other hand. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Since this is a very difficult and emotional issue, I would like to ask you all once again to let this debate take place in peace and dignity. This, of course, also applies to the visitors to the gallery! In spite of the constitutionally established public of the meetings of the National Council, MEPs have a right to hold this debate only between the elected parliamentarians. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3181	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Sozialminister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, I regret that, with this answer to the question, you have missed, as I believe, a great, perhaps a last chance to really clarify things. In the central points you refer to written answers. This is, of course, possible under the Rules of Procedure. But, Minister of State, if you say: The Greens confront me with specific cases – eleven in number – and I had only three hours to prepare myself!, then I must answer you: No, Minister of State, that's not true! All these cases have gone through the media, all these cases are known. And we have always been concerned with two points: human rights and political responsibility. You have had a lot of time to inform yourself and inform this house. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You have not used this time over all the weeks and months, and you have today mentioned two points on which no one is involved in this debate. In doing so, you have strengthened prejudices, which, although you have the applause from a particular side, should the Social Democracy ask how pleasant this applause is from the outside of the right? Federal Minister! It is not at all – and I think Mr Van der Bellen has expressed this clearly enough – a flat-rate judgment on the activities of the security authorities. It is not about the 7.8 million official acts a year – no one expects you to deal with criminal mandates – it is about human rights in the central points!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3220	I'll just interrupt the meeting and ask the club presidents to come to me. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.08 p.m. and resumed at 5.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3248	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the interrupted session and I would like to inform you of the following: This House, even if we have different positions in terms of content, is always trying to get us to discuss and comply with the rules of the game together. I've already said it: One of these rules is that the gallery is not interfering in the debate! That must be observed! In this case, the Rules of Procedure state that, in the event of disturbances, the President is entitled to interrupt the meeting – I did so before – in order to leave the gallery and to leave the gallery in the extreme case in the event of further disturbances. In fact, this is only happening in the extreme case. If, as you have seen earlier, the consensus and the call for peace really do not benefit if the person is not really formulated and all five political groups – as you have seen before – then the staff of Parliament's management will first remove individual pensioners and, if that does not work, take in the extreme case the measure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I say this quite quietly and in agreement with all the five political groups in Parliament – and I hope it will have an effect. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, please continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3287	Mr President. High house! I know that for the first time in this Second Republic a person has died in police custody. He's been killed, so I understand the emotions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's not true!]] It is precisely in the memory of Marcus Omofuma, however, that I ask those who are trying to stay here in the room so that they can also be witnesses to this meeting and carry out the messages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] – I really don't need your calls, Mrs. Partik-Pablé! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I can imagine that! But I'm not going to let my opinion be banned!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé! Something very special about Your address: I recently witnessed an incident in the Vienna Metro, where a group of disabled children were on their way with their caretakers. Some of these children have seriously affected the other passengers by their behaviour, but, of course, with all of them, they have come to support, consent. I don't know, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, how you'd react in this situation. With tape?- Oh, my God! - I don't know! I don't know! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why so anti-female?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Unbelievable! It's a joke! That's great!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are an absolutely ugly person!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: To accuse the mother of a disabled child! Last class!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Excuse me! Unheard of scandal! You're apologizing now! A scandalous behavior! This is violence of language!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But, Minister of State, I am actually holding the debate with you. [[New calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We are in the power of language! A scandalous behavior!]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Consider some alliances after 50 years of the Social Democratic Ministry of the Interior. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Federal Minister! I'll tell you one thing: You have strengthened prejudices here. As I said, it is not about the executive in general. It has improved a lot, for example during the demonstrations. It has not improved anything in the area... [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We are in the power of language!]] You said I was a "male person", Mrs. Partik-Pablé. I want that to be heard by the stenographers. I think that we should also take a similar view of this party. Mrs. Partik-Pablé! I think you should rather consider how you treat different forms of discrimination differently. I have no understanding of this – no one at all! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You could have descaled more with your speech. As has been said, we have noted that much has been improved in the field of large demonstrations, in the field of operational management. But I have the impression that I have often used hard words in this House – the President knows it – in connection with the foreign section. And I'm in favour of this criticism. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'm in favour of this criticism! Federal Minister! I would have expected more from you on the question of who answered the questions with the tapes. You can not only refer to your predecessors and say: I don't know anything about that. I also wonder that ex-Federal Minister Lösnak seems to have no intention of speaking today. I would've expected him to do that. Federal Minister! Once again, they strengthened the prejudice somewhat nebulos, it was somehow about migration policy, even about irregular immigration. – No, Minister of State! We're not talking about it today. We are not talking about criminal mandates, not about 7.8 million official acts, not about migration policy, we are talking about the practice of deportations, we are talking about the disregard for human rights, and that is the only debate to be held here and now! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I'll tell you something. They have particularly addressed sexual violence, which is now recognised as an asylum ground. But they are obviously not really well informed on this point either. There are events in all areas from which it can be seen that it is very easy – too easy! – has been passed over on individual cases. For example, if it was even possible that in October 1998 a Kosovo Albanian was "gynecologically investigated" by the police from the marital home and her husband at 5 a.m., led to the hospital and there under police supervision – all of this went through the media – I ask you, Minister of State: How does it really look with the protection in this country? And only right in those cases where there may rightly be no asylum, do I ask you: What about respect for human rights and human dignity when a deportation is to be carried out by officials according to the laws? It is about the rule of law, and I have the impression, as I repeat it, that something has improved in some areas – Mr Federal Minister, you have spoken of the bridges between the police and the population – but it must be noted that this is not the case in particular in the foreign sector! This is particularly dramatic and tragic in my opinion – it has shown itself in the case of Omofuma – also because foreign people are people who do not have citizens' rights and are therefore not open to those who have legal remedies and legal institutions, in particular the possibility to stay away from home for a long time. That is why it would be your obligation, Mr. Federal Minister – for a long time! –, within the framework of a security academy, within the framework of training in this In particular, to ensure that there is extreme sensitivity and that there are only people working there who are central to the rule of law, fundamental and freedom rights, yes, I even want to say, a sacred concern. No one else can work and work in this area. Federal Minister! There are no individual cases, there are too many violations, and they are all located in this area. I think that should have been your political responsibility and your supervision for the plan for a long time. If I remember your catalogue of measures now, I must say: There are already a few things inside that we should really discuss seriously, but there is still a great mistake: It's not about the technique of pushing off, it's not about fabric tapes instead of tapes, it's not about helmets instead of Tixo or leukoplast, it's about human rights, it's about talking, it's about dialogue, it's also about trying to explain why a person is in fear of death, why someone's so panicked that he's actually dying. Federal Minister! You can't answer that with technical questions. Who wants a condition that the planes may then be with people in an astronaut-like divide, with any rubber coats, and I don't know what's occupied? Can that be the answer of a rule of law? The horse has already been stooped from the wrong side, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What is your proposal?]] Finally, I would like to say to you: The state power and the state's monopoly of violence are only acceptable if they always, in any case and categorically, touch on human rights if, moreover, they are always in line with the person's reputation – yes, with the reputation of the person with whom you do not have much on the hat – with human dignity and, Mr. Federal Minister, with the principle of proportionality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] These principles must in any case be respected and categorically. Mr Bundesminister, one of the last things: In addition to these fundamental principles, a state in the field of internal administration needs confidence. And this trust will only be given if you do not confront us daily – just like your top officials – with new and increasingly unbelievable excuses.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3564	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. The speaking time is the same as with all the other Members. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3586	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Marcus Omofuma died during his deportation from Austria under painful circumstances. His mouth was bonded with a tape, he was suffocated in this way – a process that clearly contradicts the human rights convention. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the unfortunate facts, and this is also the reason for this special meeting of the National Council, and not, as some have hoped, the disassembly of an Interior Minister – a successful Minister of the Interior, as I would like to add. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This death, ladies and gentlemen, deeply affects us, and we all have to contribute to the adoption of concrete measures so that such a tragic case cannot be repeated. Understanding the opposition and its role in democracy: In such a serious situation as this, we should be aware that the death of a human being must not be made the subject of party political maneuvers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll invite you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, one, together with us, to deal with this serious situation. Nothing shall be beautiful, nothing shall be kept silent, but there shall not be any untruths in the room. In this context, it should be made clear that Austria needs a regulated immigration policy in order to be able to deal with immigration from many poor countries within and outside Europe accordingly. The said immigration policy, ladies and gentlemen, whether you want to do it or not also belongs to the instrument of deportation. Those who claim a controlled immigration of foreigners to Austria must also necessarily accept that those who have not been allowed a legal residence in Austria are being postponed. Requests for an immediate suspension stop, but also for no forced measures to be applied to the deportation of persons in the future, are therefore ultimately a question of controlled immigration to Austria. It must be clear to everyone who raises this demand that Austria, its labour market, but also the integration power of the population will be overpowered. However, after the death of Omofuma, we cannot go on the agenda – and that was said in particular in the direction of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's the best!]] In this context, I must say, in particular, to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Freedom Party, of a clear and clear statement: The death of Omofumas and the circumstances in this context are to be explained without delay and nothing, even nothing, is to be found under the carpet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Why do you tell us?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who wrote you this speech?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Comments like "Markgraf, stay heart!" are not in place in this context. I am not only referring to the judicial and criminal consequences, but also to the immediate adoption of necessary measures for the future regime of deportation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You read the wrong speech!]] In this context, I should like to thank Federal Minister Schlögl for immediately creating these measures by means of a new deportation system. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You can give this speech in a year when you are in opposition!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Contradictive reports of the death of Omofumas have rightly led to public criticism. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who wrote you this speech, Mr Kostelka?]] In this context, the task of criminal proceedings will be to determine whether and who is responsible for this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This minister would have earned a better clubman!]] However, the restless information that the public rightly expects will, as Federal Minister Schlögl assured a few minutes ago, not only be achieved by the courts, but also by an independent Commission involving – essential – human rights organisations. In the foreseeable future, the National Council will have three sources of information in this area: first, the criminal surveys, second, the special commission of the Ministry of the Interior, and third, the Human Rights Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! Two of these three bodies are absolutely independent, and if their report is in this House, ladies and gentlemen, it is also time to have political consequences. And this will be the task of the National Council and only of the National Council! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The establishment of a Committee of Inquiry of the National Council before these documents would mean that a fourth body deals with this question, whose only effect would be to significantly affect the activities of the other three bodies, and that cannot be in our interest or in the sense of the matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Parliament should not be burdened with it! Parliament would have to be burdened with it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said that Mr Schlögl has presented to the House a Novelle Security Police Act, which will bring with it two major improvements. On the one hand, there will be the Human Rights Advisory Council and, on the other hand, a Security Academy, which will ensure not only decent basic training but, above all, lifelong vocational training in the interests of executives. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was Minister of the Interior Schlögl, who in the first hour called for a complete investigation of the death of Marcus Omofuma and who since then also consistently informed the public about the state of the investigations. It was Federal Minister Schlögl, who has announced that he has reformed the deportation practice and who has sent the relevant documents to the public also before the National Council meeting to which we met today. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore cash any basis to charge Schlögl's internal affairs directly or indirectly any form of co-indebtedness. This is not even done if you listen carefully to them asking for the resignation of Federal Minister Schlögl. Mr Van der Bellen called for the withdrawal of the Minister of the Interior, pointing out that this was necessary and useful to prove that Austria was still a rule of law. Mr Van der Bellen! In a rule of law, everyone has to take responsibility for his actions, but not for the actions of third parties. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: What is political responsibility with you then?]] A withdrawal of Schlögl would cause exactly the opposite, namely to take guilt from those whom they really have to answer in criminal proceedings. A change in the legal situation would not be expected in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can assure you, Minister of the Interior Schlögl, that my group fully supports you in order to achieve a correct and human, but also consistent and efficient security administration in Austria. I ask you to continue in this sense!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3782	I now give the floor to Mr Kiss. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3803	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I assume from the assumption – and I am convinced that I am based on the right assumption – that there is no one in this House who did not regret the tragic death of Marcus Omofuma. From this assumption, I think it is right to draw the relevant conclusions, it is right to look in a way for the discussion in Parliament, which is not too emotional and yet emotional enough, in a form which is fair to the cause and, of course, also makes clear and clear from the content positions where the individual political parties stand. For the EIA – and I say it unmistakably – applies: There must be no second case of Marcus Omofuma in Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the ÖVP also applies to those three foreign politicians who are now at the heart of the criticism that the presumption of innocence has to be applied. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And for the EIA, thirdly, the independent judicial system is now in place to clarify all that is inconsistencies, problems, contradictions. It is our excellently functioning, independent justice, which, with its possibilities, does exactly what Parliament requires, namely to examine, to present a result and to speak law. That is what we want from the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! We have listened very carefully to the report you have submitted, and I agree with what you say and how you say it. And I'm sure I'll notice that I'm losing your personal distress. That is why I say clearly and clearly: We know what a difficult situation you are in. We know that you and your colleagues are in a difficult situation too. We do not believe that all those who represent human rights are now saying: It can't go on like this. In this difficult hour we say an open, straight word of support to you. I'll argue why and why. But I also recommend that the fundamental and human rights in this rule of law are safeguarded in the long term. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conversation with the Members concerned, we hear it again and again: It is undoubtedly one of the most difficult, sensitive, unpleasant tasks to be a foreign politician. There is hardly anyone in the executive who takes care of these – apologise for me to formulate it in such a way – “hook”. On the contrary! Our colleagues report to them all that we, as legislators, the rule of law of Austria, ultimately impose on them. They are in a truly unnecessary situation, in no enviable situation. That is why they deserve our loyalty, because they stand for right, for order and guarantee security for our people around the clock. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I'm standing here to say, Together we have been the ones who have not only designed the great guidelines of the Austrian foreign and asylum policy, but who have also represented these foreign and asylum policies here in Parliament. Because – and I may ask this theoretical, hypothetical question – where would Austria be today? If there were still social peace, would we still have peace, internal order and security, if it were not all that we have created in this sensitive, explosive area of foreign policy? I am convinced that we have gone a good way, and the Austrians know – and I am convinced that the overwhelming majority of the Austrians know – that this road will continue to be the right one in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to be ashamed of the fact that these reasonable laws in the field of foreign and asylum legislation have also brought peace to the issue of foreigners. But it has actually become calmer than at the beginning of the nineties, no one will doubt it. It is, of course, in this context to ask the question: Are these specific laws, which we have formulated here in Parliament, also applicable in a very precise formulation for the executive? Have you, with the appropriate caution, with the appropriate supervision of those colleagues who have to execute what is decided in Parliament, also given the armor to execute laws in a very safe, precise, concrete and constructive manner? I have the feeling, Mr Federal Minister – and you have rightly acknowledged mistakes – that we have exactly where to go. Mr Federal Minister, you have our support where it is about reducing abuses, where it is about clear and transparent information. And, as in the past, when it comes to foreign and asylum legislation, we will not refuse to support you in this difficult situation, in which you, in particular, are a political leader. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But it can also be brought in, Mrs Petrovic, in connection with the human rights of a person who is not so empty from the table. I have taken note of the report by the Ministry of the Interior on organised tow crime, the annual report 1998. You know him. It is comprehensive, it not only addresses the problem in the textual part, it also provides numbers – numbers that are impressive, numbers that I have to say: Let us consider what the consequence would be, if there were not the relevant legal regulations, for example, if we did not have a border service of the federal army, would not ensure the assistance of the German army also the EU external border, we would not have our colleagues in the customs guard! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Only three figures in this context: In 1998, there were 19,693 seizures of illegals – I read this number from this report – and in the first quarter of this year there were already 6,463. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This is an increase of 130 percent compared to the first quarter of 1998. Whoever believes, in view of the fact that the rule of law of Austria, that the Republic of Austria must not do anything about it, I can only say that he is a dreamer, that he closes his eyes to reality, and that I also write in the main book: [[Abg. Oillinger: There is also an exaggeration!]] You don't know what you're doing, and above all you don't know what you're talking about! Believe me! [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] The political responsibility of the Minister of the Interior is undoubtedly given in this matter. I am not speaking to the Federal Minister about this responsibility. He does not want it either, and he has also said that he personally shoulders the political responsibility. Political responsibility for us also means knowing that nothing wrong has happened. Federal Minister! We accept that you say: I swear I didn't know anything about the adhesive of the mouth. Because you stress this so vehemently, because you said that to the Austrian public, we believe you, and therefore we do not distrust you against the demand of the Greens and the Liberals. We support you in this attitude because you stress that you did not know anything about what happened. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: All?]] Federal Minister! We call for first of all the restless, open, merciless Enlightenment from the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: All of the ÖVP?]] Secondly, We also demand consequences without regard to the person, whoever it concerns. Thirdly, There must be, of course, no second case, Marcus Omofuma. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! You have our support! Do what is to be done!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3960	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Kiss has just read, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Scheibner. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes according to your wish. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e3984	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, first of all a sentence to your address: You have shown your true face here today when, Mrs Petrovic, Mrs Partik-Pablé, in the knowledge that she is the mother of a disabled child, you have assumed from the speaker's desk that she has shown discrimination against the disabled. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's not true!]] Mrs Petrovic! That was so last-class, it was such a low level that you would actually have to get out of here and apologize for it! [[Lively congratulations to the liberals and congratulations of representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Today you have again Her true face showed: It is not a question of clarifying this case, and it is not a question of submitting proposals for solutions – none of your speakers has just put forward a proposal for a solution – but it is simply your concern to misuse this truly tragic and sad occasion for the implementation of your political objectives. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the entire political debate, this incident was not impoverished by anyone. No one! Everyone has demanded consequences from this case and an unwavering explanation of the facts, even the Federal Minister himself. And in this respect, one must say, he is pleased to take up his predecessors and statements from his colleagues in the past. Everyone has demanded consequences for the future – unfortunately only after this incident. It seems that something must always happen in Austria before the necessary action is taken. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and also those of the Liberals who are speaking of the two parties here today with one voice, but also some of the Socialists, we are here very expressly opposed to the flat-rate convictions of the police, which you have made quite clear and clearly expressed in demonstrations. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Officials, police officers who put their health and their lives at risk every day for the security of this country and its people, demand and deserve our support. You didn't deserve to be defamed and criminalized by you! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, who are in favour of human rights, I ask you: Where was your cry when, in recent weeks and months, the news came that hardly a day passed when there were no violent acts against police officers and executive officers? Where were your protests against the fact that almost every attack, especially of illegals, resulted in violent attacks against police officers? Let us take a look at the extent of the deportations, ladies and gentlemen. There are 17 000 deportations a year, 3 000 of them by plane, and I must tell you, Minister of the Interior, that it is really a remarkable fact that the deportations are carried out with scheduled aircraft. No one would think of carrying out a domestic convict transport by tram or other public transport. There, too, you're in need of action! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Now a number just to represent the relativity: In 1997, in 2.8 million official acts, 964 ads were issued for alleged police attacks, as the Minister has said today, resulting in only two convictions - two too many of which result from official abuse and what is happening by police officers. But you should finally take note of this reality! It is clear that we must not take note of the fact that there is often a false corps spirit within the framework of the police, but that can and must not – even from you! – to be taken as a basis for criticizing and criminalising our police. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Mr Kiss! With one voice the ÖVP does not speak! They have given support to the Minister here, but this is also a strange tactic, because Mr Pröll is talking about terrorist methods of the police, and he thinks that the Minister himself should know what he should do, and Mr Amon is calling for his resignation. Having them in the back is more a dangerous threat, Mr Kiss, than a support for this minister. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] For us – and that was written to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Left! – a very clear principle applies and has to be applied: Whoever is illegally residing in Austria, who is going to be punished as a foreigner in Austria, has to be permanently postponed and he has to leave our country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is as human as possible, but it is also as consistent and efficient as necessary to do so. Unfortunately, forced action is necessary. What is the alternative, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens and the Liberals? – We heard it yesterday in the TV show "To the cause": Only 60 illegals, 60 removals of 17 000, have voluntarily left the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and Liberals! Their alternative is as follows: They're supposed to stay here with us and sink into illegality. This cannot be a claim to the rule of law! I guess that can't be a demand for the... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Please, what do you say, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: That's a premise!]] Say it out loud, please! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: That's a premise!]] Tell us your solution, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals! You have no solution but to say: If a deportation is not possible, you must not carry it out. Minister of the Interior! A little bit has already been added to these demands from the left, because to say that if a mover is opposed to the deportation, the same should be adjusted, it cannot be meant seriously. Mr President, this is just an invitation to renite behaviour! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your task, Minister of the Interior, is to ensure orderly conditions, for example, a sufficient number of thrust rooms. It cannot be accepted, for example, that now in Tyrol a third of the injured illegals have to be released, because there are not enough room for expansion. Minister of the Interior! Of course, it is also necessary to provide for appropriate training and equipment for officials. But I cannot understand why it is only now that there are humane, but nevertheless efficient means of binding. But it must also be prevented that illegals, very well guided by various organizations, by hunger strikes or other measures from pushing themselves out. We have proposed to acquire our own transport aircraft in order to be able to carry out deportations in a more efficient, but also humane manner. That is where we ask you, Minister of the Interior, to correct your failure. We would also like to know how it was possible for 5 000 asylum seekers in 1998 – this must be imagined: 5,000 asylum seekers! – in ongoing proceedings, suddenly disappeared into illegality, and why it was possible to get through refugee organizations in order to give illegals the sham of legality. Minister of the Interior! That's where you're required! We liberals will observe very closely whether you will submit to this propaganda by Green, Liberal or other left-wing groups or whether They continue to be consistent – truly consistent! – the laws you have to implement, in the interests of the Austrians, will actually be implemented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Continue with your minority program! However, we have to represent the Austrians, who cannot accept that crime and illegality are permitted to an extent such as, Mr Wabl, no one can accept from anyone. [[Abg. Wabl: It's about the killing of Omofuma! What is it about now, Mr Scheibner?]] Minister of the Interior! We will therefore not agree to the motion for a censure, because we do not want to be the leaders of political groups in this country who want to get rid of a misguided minister, because he has a different policy in foreign and asylum legislation – at least in approaches – than it corresponds to their wishes. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr Petrovic and Schaffenrath.]] It is also about, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and also Mrs Schaffenrath – the Tyroleans have given you a very clear vote where they want you! – to protect Austria from a policy that you want to implement in this country. [[Complaints with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4144	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has asked for an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, start with the facts to which you want to compare your corrected version. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4177	Mr President. Mr Scheibner has said here that I would have put Mrs Partik-Pablé under a disabled behaviour, a discriminatory attitude towards the disabled. [[Call the liberals: Sorry!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Got it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The opposite is true, and I am trying as quickly as possible to update the appropriate protocols. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We're not terrific!]] I asked her the question, and I ask her again how she, as a woman and judge, deals with various groups of guardians entrusted with the care of other people – once disabled children, once displaced. With tape or other?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4286	Mrs Dr Schmidt is now speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4308	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! In this debate today, as a result of Marcus Omofuma's death, I am dealing with three issues: on the one hand, the practice of dealing with people who are in police custody, on the other, with the question: What does political responsibility mean? And thirdly, for a fight against the politics of the "Kronen Zeitung", which dehumanizes this society. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Ah!]] First of all, as regards the practice of dealing with people who are in police custody: That's where I was influenced by my ten-year activity in the People's Procuratorate. I remember very well the complaints about misbehaviors and abuses by police officers. I remember the reactions of the resort, most of which, when an infringement was detected, came up with the answer that it had arisen in the event of overcoming the resistance of those concerned. I remember that we often could not determine whether, for example, in the criminal offence of resistance to the state power, this was the cause of arrest or the threat of arrest for this offence. I remember, above all, two cases – and it has been years since – how people were treated at the time and what has already occurred to neglecting service supervision. One case occurred in Graz, where a middle school teacher, because he was caught while driving black, finally landed in an arrestzelle, in an arrestzelle, in which an iron ring was instituted in the middle, and the middle school teacher was chained to this iron ring, and the reason for this was that he was renite and ran against the wall with his head. I do not want to discuss this case here at all. The fact is that there was this iron ring, the fact is that the middle school teacher was chained, and the fact is that only after this incident, although pre-service inspections took place, this iron ring was removed. I remember – and you may also remember – the case of that man who was forgotten in a parish flock in Vorarlberg for 18 days. I remember the local eye-catching I made in this parish cotter. Zig's duties were carried out there before, as the Minister told us at the time. I've seen this parish cotter: It is a hole, a former wine cellar without windows, without sanitation, with any opening, where perhaps some ventilation has been added by detours. You knew that. It was only after this man had been forgotten there that it was thought that this might not be in line with the standards. These two cases were then corrected. I am saying all of this because at the time – at the time of the Minister of the Interior and at the time of his official office – the feeling of proportionality of the funds and the awareness of fundamental rights were only very economical. That is exactly what we need to find out now! [[Abg. Marizzi: This is already a broad interpretation!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's where the district captain is responsible!]] Minister of the Interior! I already admit this proportionality of resources, this fundamental right awareness is something that has to be found in the laws in particular, and for these laws are not you, but the majority of this House is responsible. They are not directly responsible for the lack of fundamental rights, which has led to noise attack and grid arrest. You are not yet responsible for what this House will decide with the strange security police law and with the powers you want for your police. You're not right yet. But you are responsible for something: that is, for the practice and for the implementation of these provisions! [[Abg. Marizzi and Abg. Reitsamer: For the parish cotter?]] With regard to this political responsibility, I ask you, Minister: Where does she start with you? There, where You put on your own hand? I do not want to compare the matter, I just want to compare the scale because the fatal association has come to a quote from Michael Graff in connection with Waldheim, as he measured responsibility. This is similar to me if you say, or if your party friend Zilk says, only then would he be politically responsible if he is himself. Just that he doesn't have to carry them in his pocket himself! To this end, I must say: This is not the criterion for political responsibility, at least not the one that we set up liberals. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I ask you, Minister: Have you never thought about how your officials deal with people, regardless of whether they are prisoners or criminals, when they oppose when they are renite? Have you never thought about what instruments they believe to have to proceed with? Haven't you ever asked her? Have you never talked to your foreign colleagues about how they do this? Have you never wondered that the Germans have a completely different deportation practice than we do? What conclusions have you drawn from this? How do you actually deal with committees, proposals and committee reports, such as the European Parliament or international commissions, such as those for the prevention of torture? You know that there is a report that is difficult to attack on the Austrian system. Is that all the real estate for you? Tell me, that was my predecessor's time, isn't that interested in me? Or do you not understand political responsibility in such a way that you not only have to comply with these principles yourself, but also have to train your apparatus in this direction and give him assistance? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] To whom do you actually understand your political responsibility? – to your party president, Mr Klima, to whom you generously offer your resignation? Or is political responsibility something you have to do with this people's representation? – In any case, you have not offered this house your resignation. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We would not have accepted that!]] That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I am not surprised that you have such a close-up to the FPÖ, not only in the contents in which I see more and more agreement between the S & D Schlögl and the FPÖ, but also apparently in your standards, to whom you are responsible. For the liberals also have their own system, which create themselves in addition to the existing legal order also their own and therefore have a strange honorary court and similar. [[Abg. Scheibner: No!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, no party court! It's not a party court!]] They also offer your resignation to your party chairman. Is that your idea of political responsibility? – Then, I have to say, it does not surprise me that you are going to conform with this Freedom Party, but it is also understandable that you are also doing so with the "Kronen Zeitung". Now I have to tell you the following, Minister, as someone who benefits from the "Kronen Zeitung" which brings the matter to the fore when Mr Staberl asks: "Do those who do not care about the rule of law fully support the benefits of one of them so clearly rejected by the rule of law?" And who thus touches a key question of a rule of law, which says that they have the most pleasing to be free of birds: You're proud of this support? You are proud of a "Kronen Zeitung", which writes after this – you all call it a "tragic incident" – death of a human being, that the police have fulfilled the task of maintaining public order, precisely on this question, and have become just? Federal Minister! They benefit from a mood of inhumanity. They benefit from drilled prejudices. They benefit from a lack of rule of law in that country. That is why, Mr Minister, we can no longer express our confidence in you, and I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4471	Mrs Dr Schmidt! For clarification only: The request you made at the end of the day is a... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Self-employed application!]] Self-evident request you have made. - Good. Thanks a lot. I now appoint Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits the word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4500	Dobar večer! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Since last Sunday, important top officials of the interior resort, but also you, Mr. Federal Minister, – you have just been addressed – always assure me personally that the death of Marcus Omofuma is a tragic, deplorable matter for the resort and a tragic individual case. Federal Minister! Today's debate should not primarily be used to discuss or question the credibility of any kind. The fact that it is tragic that you are sorry that you prefer not to have happened is indeed something that is perfectly clear to me – I know you for many years now, even decades. For, please, let us imagine that you are not sorry that this has happened! That is why, Mr Federal Minister, after ten days it is necessary that it should be said again and again that 20 times as tragic as this is, but practically in the same sentence it is always said: But the officials! And the security executive! And actually, it's so great in Austria anyway. Federal Minister! At some point it must be over! At some point, you, Mr. Federal Minister, too, especially if you find it tragic and personal, but also politically in the sense of your world image – you are a social democrat, and you also call yourself such – a consequence. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I also do not doubt the genuinely honest intention you had when, as you have reported today, you offered your resignation to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. But you have already done this with your intention – I do not doubt that you have done it, you have reported it here today – it has already had its reason for wanting to draw this consequence. But, Mr Federal Minister, if it is true that you have been held off by arguments that seem to have been better than those that you have used your own considerations, there are other responsible persons beyond you who have the consequences to bear, namely those who are still above you, and that is in this case the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is perhaps also Cabinet colleagues – I do not know – who have convinced you that this would not be a good solution. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Federal Minister! As far as I am concerned about this matter as you and your political responsibility are concerned personally, this kind of incredible crisis management that you have shown in your department in the last ten days. That is, honestly, a dilettantism – now viewed with your eyes – which is quite incredible. It is incredible that, in such a situation, an interior resort makes such a kind of – quotation – "information policy" as we have experienced it – not our members of the opposition, but the Austrian public; Mr Van der Bellen has already pointed this out in his speech –: Inconsistencies are still and still, officials who report a report, in which, after they arrived in Austria and, of course, have already spoken with their superiors at the airport, suddenly new facts appear. These are incredible things! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out here: Those three officials who run the preliminary investigations are accused in a trial. The accused are not subject to the duty of truth, ladies and gentlemen. They will not be permanently burdened by facts themselves, but they will be allowed to say what they want. Her lawyer can also tell you what he wants. But your chief officials, Mr Bundesminister, are not allowed to say what they want and something else every day. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The lack of credibility has been shown several times today, but I, Mr. Federal Minister, would like to return to what has already been announced by you yesterday in the media - the consequences of this tragic - now I say again quotation marks - been "individual sicks" and, so to speak, from the end, but not from what has happened. Federal Minister! They spoke with the words of a Catholic philosophy of law and said that "every day starts again," that is the currency of the interior resort. – I was wrong when you start every day, with those officials who have been in politics for at least – I have been in politics for a few years – since 1993 – because at that time I have put a parliamentary question to Mr. Böschnak – knowing that in Austria, tapes are being suffocated because citizens can observe it. This does not happen in secret, it happens publicly, in airplanes, at the airport, where people are taken to and from. You want to start every day with these officials? – Here, Minister of State, you can only say: Good night, Austria! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] I am holding to you the words – Paul Watzlawick would say so: What you have proposed and presented here today is more of the same. I don't think of anything else. Federal Minister! If you really look at the details of your proposals carefully, then you see that is nothing but the wrong way, in some way the refinement of police methods. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How would you like it?]] What is it other than torture in a different sense when I put people who are brought out of Austria with a helmet in a plane and continue to fix them with tapes on seats? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell me how you would like it!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How would you like it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Human Rights!]] This is really nothing but a refining of torture methods, as they have been known in writing in Austria since 1993. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Well, not your top officials, because you said in the answer to the question, Sika and Stiedl, to name only two now, did not know anything about these questions. But who put these questions – in the case of Dr. Lösnak and later Dr. Einm – to the signature, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen? It has already resigned politicians for signatures under much more empty things or no longer in their office than because of a signature among such serious things. Do Austrian ministers repeatedly sign documents that they do not read before? And the top officials don't know what they're going to do to the Minister for signature? Yeah, where do we really get there? – Minister A. D. Löschnak, you shake your head. This answer shall bear your signature. Now you are no longer Ministers of the Interior, now you are only Members of Parliament, but you should only be quite interested in the fact that exactly who bears the responsibility for nothing has happened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Löschnak: Yes!]] At the latest, something should have happened when a person died of similar practices in the Federal Republic of Germany. That was long before the case in Belgium, that was about five years ago. Yes, is the Austrian interior not only deaf, but also blind or readable? The Federal Minister said that he reads the newspapers every day – about – and he can then report. But please, Minister of State: The police are investigating the police. Well, what will happen if the police examine themselves?, I can only ask. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: And what happens when the greens investigate it?]] Now I come to what is the saddest thing for me in these directives, in this catalogue of measures, and what for You have spent relatively much time today in your speech, namely on this Human Rights Advisory Council. Under the Security Police Act, this is to be a Human Rights Advisory Board – I can only refer to what has already been presented here as a draft or as a government template of your home – whose members are appointed by the Minister of the Interior. This Advisory Board is designed as a confidential advisory body of the Minister of the Interior, in which the members who are used by it can, of course, also be dissociated at any time. I would like to quote the Secretary-General of amnesty international, who is involved in this discussion. He says: True independence and freedom of guidance are not a matter of any kind. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really nothing but a strange attempt to interpret in Austrian the conditions of international organisations such as the CPT, the anti-torture committee. Otherwise, I really can't take that. Ladies and gentlemen! But not only the Greens, not only the Austrian human rights movement, but also genuine Social Democratic MEPs have recognized this. I am very grateful to colleagues from the Socialist Group who, long before this special meeting, have sent you an open letter and made demands, because they have done so much better than I could, because they have put it to the point of what it is all about. But these points, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have left you to the table today, because you have very much focused on the use of the helmet and on this supposedly flawless, but by you, and on your accountable advisory board. I would therefore ask Members to consider these harmless points and to support our motion for a resolution, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4660	This is the end of the speaking time, ladies and gentlemen. I've given you half a minute to read the application, but I can't extend it. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is very generous of you, Mr President.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4696	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since some of my previous speakers have repeatedly tried to give the former Minister of the Interior Franz Löschnak the focus of today's discussion – in addition to the present Minister of the Interior of the Interior of course – and a parliamentary request repeatedly as a justification, I can say quite specifically what is contained in this parliamentary request, so that at least those who have not read it, and those who have apparently read it, but have not understood it, also know what is in it. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to read all the questions, because that would call my speaking time too much, but the third question was: "Do the officials regularly use wide tapes to stick the face and mouth to pushers?" The answer of the Minister of the Interior was simple and simple: "No." In another question, in question 7, the following question was asked: "Who tore the tapes from the face of the tied pusher, or who should have done so?" The Minister's answer: "After removal of the risk of injury to the stranger and to the security body, protective equipment shall be removed by an official at the latest on the machine." [[Abg. Wabl: Question 6, Mr Leikam! Question 6!]] Next question to which you refer, Question 8: "Notes of the incident report the Gaudium that the officials had had in the bonding of the penitentiary." [[Abg. Wabl: Question 6, Mr Leikam, should you quote! Question 6, if you've forgotten them! – President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign!]] "In addition, packaging in adhesive PVC was justified by the fact that the negro could bite otherwise and that the negroes had yes AIDS. Has this scandalous behavior of officials also been reported to you?" The answer from Minister Löschnak was: "It is certainly not for the safety organs to bring a Gaudium, an evocative, stepping and biting person on board the plane. The fact is that several border control officials have already suffered serious injury in part. They do not want to take note of this. It is common knowledge that the transmission of a disease by bite injuries is possible. Officials are required to act consistently under the best possible protection of the person. I did not know any comments as quoted in the request." [[Abg. Wabl: Please read out Question 6! Question 6 you have read, Mr. Leikam!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To say here that even at Löschnak in 1993 a confirmation from this reply to the question is to be found that this is going and going, it is likely that you will only be left to do so. [[Abg. Wabl: Because you have not read Question 6!]] I strongly reject this, Mr Wabl. That's where you need to find better arguments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You have not read the question 6! You've already adapted to the haider! Question 6 you should read! Question No 6, by Mr Leikam!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior Schlögl has begun his answers to today's urgent question: I deeply regret this death, and I am convinced that all the employees of my department feel the way I am. – I believe that this is nothing more than the personal concern of the Minister and his employees. If you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens and the Liberals who do not want to take note of this, this is your business. But in the last few days and also in today's debate, I have already felt that you are not so much concerned with the matter yourself, but you simply have a goal in mind: You now see, through this incident, as sad as it may be, a very great opportunity to change the Austrian foreign legislation again. This opportunity you recognize, and this opportunity you want to know implemented by your activities in recent days. You are not really concerned about the matter, it is about you that the laws of foreigners need to be changed and that this minister, who is very successful and who enjoys an enormous reputation in the public. He's got to go! There are applications to be submitted. Since everything is tried, personal attacks deep below the belt line have been conducted here in the last days. It must be gone and the laws of foreigners must be changed! The only thing to be thanked for is the fact that we have good laws in the foreign legislation, which are internationally recognised, which are also good laws for those concerned, which, if I have been allowed to take the last novel of the Foreign Law from 1997, have also received the undivided consent of the UNHCR Commissioner, Mr Blatter – I was present even in a discussion where he has greatly praised and set up the novelle 1997 of this foreign law as an example for other states – you want to have rid of this Minister of the Interior, who has made really good foreign laws in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something else – I’ve been thinking for a long time about whether to say this from the speaker’s desk, and I have decided to do it anyway –: ==References== In May, there was again something in Austria about which I actually felt that there was no longer any such thing: a massive interference of the Catholic and the Protestant Church into this matter! I reject that with all the sharpness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not possible for the Caritas President and the head of the Evangelistic Aid Office to call on the Minister of the Interior to resign. This is not the task of the ecclesial organizations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] That's not their job! The church doesn't have to interfere. It can practice criticism, but it cannot take over the work of two political parties here in that country. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is immense!]] This is a clear violation of their duties. I have been talking to many Catholics and many Protestant believers in the last few days, and it has been shown that they have no understanding of what their top church rulers have done in this regard. I am glad about it, and I officially reject this procedure here! This behaviour of the Church cannot be accepted! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== May were bad days for the Austrian executive, very bad days! Because you didn't make a difference. You only tried a little bit today to scratch the curve. They have "hineingehaut" from the first day to the entire Austrian press. You talked about a racist police on a flat-rate basis. [[Abg. Smolle: Free expression is also a human right!]] Mr Pilz, since working in the political landscape, knows only one word for the police: "Punishment Police", "Punishment Army". This is really your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! They have repeatedly tried to hinder the executive in their work. They don't want the executive to succeed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! But your Secretary-General, too, does not have the right manner of dealing with the executive – that is to be said again today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] Names such as "Scherzkekse" and "Idiots" are not necessarily those expressions that the executive deserves for their difficult work. That must be said quite clearly to you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mandatory exercise! Leikam, let's do the duty!]] Our executive usually has to do with people who disregard the laws – I don't want to use any worse expression for it. And these 34 000 officials, who really do their job conscientiously, are particularly difficult. In today's urgent question several individual cases were revealed again, and it was asked to reply by the Minister. But, of course, there are just as many individual cases on the other side – without knowing now how the answer goes out here. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that many of your requests, many of your individual cases, which you have wanted to deal with here in this House for years and which have also been treated, have proved after the answer as soap bubbles, that there has never been anything left hanging. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler]] They sometimes warm up Urals, even though you know for yourself that it was different than you claim it. Today's question also contains a number of individual cases. I call you another individual case, which has also taken place in the event of a deportation – I emphasize: also an individual case! –: Austrian officials have moved a person to Ghana. When they arrived, she took the police there in custody – not the displaced, but the Austrian police! The foreign police, who had done the deportation, were arrested for claiming that he had been attacked effectively. That's the practice! Our executive also has to deal with such things. It has therefore not deserved that parties fall over them here in this House. Our executive really did not deserve it! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's the blame? Karl Schlögl must know what his 34,000 officials are doing!Unknown term type: "%s".? What's this allegation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] What you're demanding is not understandable at all. Karl Schlögl knows what security policy he is doing! And this security policy is understood by the Austrian population. She knows what Karl Schlögl is doing for this country, what benefits he brings to the Austrian people and to security in that country, because in these days the Minister of the Interior has been confirmed by an unprecedented testimony of solidarity. This is the people's representation, Mrs Schmidt, not your representatives are the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4900	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4915	90 percent of Austrians want this minister to remain in office. Orientation yourself to the Austrian population, then you will soon know what the right procedure would be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Unfortunately, I do not have much time left, but I have to say one sentence, Mr President – for the half minute that my previous speaker has received, I can also use for myself. [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] Do you know what you want? – You want...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e4963	Deputies! That's not how it is! Everyone has to be treated the same way. Your speaking time has expired! [[Abg. Leikam: They want what has come down from above today (Abg. Leikam shows a leaflet) "Open borders for everyone!" This is your foreign policy! But we won't go there!]] [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Leikam.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This speech should have been given by Mr Kostelka, not by the Leikam!]] Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that the request made by Mrs Terezija Stoisits at the end of her speech, namely concerning measures to control the safety device, has been properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The Federal Minister is speaking. – Please, Minister Schlögl.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5020	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there has been a very emotional and very contradictory discussion. I am trying to get a position on some speeches. First of all, I would like to reject the accusation made by Mrs Stoisits that it is only a sort of edifice that I have the tragedy and the events that have occurred in the days around 1. May have happened, honestly regretful. On the contrary! I think it is necessary and important to emphasize again, especially at today's meeting, how much not only I, as an interior minister, are affected not only by the overwhelming majority of Austrians, but also by the entire police apparatus. I would like to say clearly: It was an event that should not have occurred in Austria. It was an event that is unforgivable! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I have the feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that you, of the Greens and you, of the Liberals of this tragic event, are very likely to benefit exclusively in order to achieve party political success. I have the feeling that you're... [[Interlocutory calls from Dr Gredler and Wabl.]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] I have the feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that you have certain things...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5065	President. — The debate is closed. – Mr Wabl, this also applies to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5080	I have the feeling that you interpret things very, very consciously differently and represent things differently than I said them. I have just quoted an expression that is very important to me, namely: We have the task of re-starting every day! – This is a statement by the founder of the Catholic Labour Youth. And according to this motto, I would like to try to learn from mistakes. That's what I meant. I would also strongly reject the statement that the Austrian Ministry of the Interior has given new conflicting presentations of the events every day. That is simply not true, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wabl: Who is "the Ministry of the Interior"? The Sika? The Matzka?]] Mr Wabl! I have only two reports: a report from Sunday, 2. May, in which I received from the officials a presentation of the tragic events. This report was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. ==References== May sent to the prosecutor's office. There were then no further reports. The officers were in Sofia. The officials are on Friday – the 5. In May it was returned from Sofia, I believe, and then the order of the President of the Police of Vienna came to hear the three officials, especially because of the disciplinary procedure that was initiated. And since – I admit – statements have been made by officials who are not included in the first report – I have to take note of that. However, the independent judicial system has to decide on this. But this is not contradictory information from the Ministry of the Interior! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] There are two reports – reports that differ in certain details – and certain things are not included in the first report, which are very well contained in the second report. Otherwise, I do not know any other reports or statements or broadcasts of the ministry that would be different. In addition, I would like to point out that there have been so many claims in this context, which has subsequently proved to be inaccurate. For example, a series of newspapers and magazines claimed that the deportation of Mr Marcus Omofuma was illegal. Yesterday, the lawyer participating in the "Case" discussion made it clear that this is not the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] But it has been written in a variety of newspapers. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: But we're not the newspaper! But where's that?]] I guess I can quote newspaper reports here. Don't always feel personally affected and attacked! I quote here allegations that have been colported into the media. – The fact is, however, that this deportation has not been illegal. For example, in the report, the alleged injection of an Iranian pusher in the deportation was reported. – Just as the situation is present to me, it did not exist. But: This offender has suffered a weakness attack – or there have been other reasons –, at least he has fallen into some kind of powerless condition at the airport. The officials brought a doctor, and he did a treatment. Then the penitentiary returned to the thruster and was later relocated. This is quite different, and so I could report a number of things that have been presented in the last few days, but whose presentation does not stand up to a more detailed review. [[Abg. Smolle: What about the Iliev?]] The same is true of Mr Iliev. Thank you, yes, you are right; there is some kind of interview in connection with Mr Iliev. [[Abg. Smolle: Mr Sika says he would have demented once!]] – Listen to me, then I can answer you! There is with Mr. Iliev an actual or alleged interview in "NEWS", an actual or alleged interview in the "profile"; I cannot judge that. The fact is that he also made a statement in the Austrian Embassy in Sofia, but he made quite clearly different information there than in the two published interviews. We shall submit the statements made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which shall draw the conclusions from them. The fact is that the Causa Iliev is not as clear as it may seem at first sight. However, I do not want to judge this, but I have only responded to it because you have referred to it in an interlocutory call. [[Abg. Smolle: (Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl a newspaper handed over) These are the statements of your official Sika...!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make this clear, as Mrs Stoisits accused me that the police were going to investigate themselves: Of course: In part, I also have the task of being examined by relevant officials working in other areas of the case, allegations raised against the executive. But there are also a number of similar criminal charges – and then the judicial system investigates. Justice is independent, and justice is in no way on the police gang! That is why I cannot accept the accusation that the police themselves are investigating! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] I am not going to let you say either, Mrs Stoisits, that I am setting up a body with the Human Rights Advisory Council, which would only be willing to do what the Ministry of the Interior or the Minister of the Interior wants. On the contrary: I believe that the Human Rights Advisory Council has the task of being very critical. He has this task in two respects: on the one hand, to advise the ministers and the main officials in this department on important issues of the protection of human rights in the Austrian executive, and on the other hand, the Human Rights Advisory Board has the task of reviewing, as an independent institution which is not responsible for the interior minister, actual or claimed abuses or abuses within the executive. The Human Rights Advisory Council should have ten members, of which at least five will be non-governmental organisations. Fix is for me that the Caritas are there, fixed is that a representative of Black African organizations in Austria is there, fixed is that amnesty is internationally present, and fixed for me that "SOS fellow human beings" and the "people's aid" are there. And I also think of how we can contribute to UNHCR. I have already agreed with the Secretary-General of amnesty internationally a few weeks ago that the Rules of Procedure of this Human Rights Advisory Council are being drawn up jointly between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and those organizations, so that it is really made clear that this is not a body that works, so to speak, at the push of the Ministry of Interior, but really an independent body. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is unthinkable, Madam President Schmidt, when you go to the speaker's desk and report on two cases that have been going on for years, if not decades. The case in connection with the Gemeindekotter somewhere in Vorarlberg is certainly two decades ago – if not longer – and I don't even know if this has been in the area of the Austrian federal army or in the area of the municipal police; I can't judge that at all. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But it's symptomatic of service supervision!]] Anyway, it was at a time when I thought I was a kid. And that's why I consider this accusation to be unscrupulous. The urgent request of the Greens lists eleven cases of alleged abuses, inaccuracies or human rights violations by the Austrian executive. I can't do more than I said here: It is impossible to deal with each individual case in the short term. I have today assured that in each of these eleven cases - some of which will be very critically reviewed - I will give a clear opinion from all Members of the Austrian Parliament as well as the public. I'm not going to put anything under the carpet, either. I also think it is inconspicuous if you accuse me that I would have offered my party chairman a resignation. I did not offer a resignation to my party president, but to the Chancellor – he is the head of government. I told him: If I become a burden to this federal government, I am at any time willing to provide my function. – I ask you to distinguish this! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If I'm correctly informed, have She filed a motion of censure against me as a self-employed one. If it is such a great concern for you to chase me out of this office, then do not bring in a self-employed request that is assigned, but try to ensure that we are still voting on it today! They're acting! Tell the public! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Show! Theater!]] [[Further calls.]] If that is your concern, if you want me to leave the office, then make a request on which we are still voting today. That's what I'm asking you to do. [[It is a pleasure with the SPÖ, the Freeman as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] From you always comes the accusation: "The Extinction of Fundamental Rights by Karl Schlögl". Two examples where you may be right that fundamental rights have been undermined by Karl Schlögl's legislative initiatives. First example: Law on the Protection of Violence, in 1st place. ==References====External links== This anti-violence law undoubtedly constitutes a restriction of civil liberties and fundamental rights when someone is expelled from the house due to the corresponding use of the executive from the apartment, from the household. On the other hand, this is something that has proved to be very good over the last one and a half years and has led to many women who have been victims of violence finding protection and help to prevent further suffering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] And this anti-violence law, as far as I know, has been passed by a large majority - I even believe - with your consent; I do not know exactly. So this is one law that can be said that in the time when I am the Minister of the Interior, the fundamental rights were to a certain extent eroded or perhaps shaken. Secondly, Noise attack and grid fencing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5278	Federal Minister! I am now forced, § 93 para. In the debate on a urgent question – since you have already answered the question addressed to you – each speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes without exception. The Minister has the privilege of being able to speak repeatedly in the debate. However, I would ask you to understand that I am interrupting your remarks on this point and calling on the next speaker to speak. If you wish, Mr Federal Minister, you can speak once again to comment on further points. That is how we have dealt with this provision so far. Thank you many times, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP for the Federal Minister who ends the speech Mag. Schlögl.]] The next item is Mrs Petrovic's speech. . I am just hearing that you, ladies and gentlemen, have spoken about an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5321	Mr President. In fact, I am correcting Mr Leikam's statement: At the end of his speech, he claimed that the real reason for the urgent request of the Greens was the demand for "open borders for all". Leikam knows that this is wrong, because today it is not about migration policy at all, but about the case of Omofuma.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5344	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) These are in terms of content. I would ask you to restore facts and bring the counter-facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5360	Mr Leikam said that we had made the request: "Open borders for all!" – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a speech!]] It is about human rights and not migration policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5398	Mr Platter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Then I will give the floor to you again, Mr Federal Minister. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5420	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The death of Marcus Omofuma has undoubtedly led to a difficult situation for our country's internal policies. I would like to begin by expressing my deep concern and my participation, and I believe that some of the emotions that have been articulated here today were really indispensable! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I too believe that the implementation of this special meeting is very necessary; it is an important instrument of democracy policy. However, I expressly oppose the motion for a resolution against the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I expect, yes, I ask for clear guidelines for the executives in carrying out the shift transport. It must be in the interests of all, but above all it must be in the interest of the executive officials to know how to proceed when this or that circumstance occurs. There is no doubt that it would be too easy now to say that the executive officers are fully at fault of having the full responsibility to bear. We cannot go on to the agenda. That's certainly not how it can be! We need clear rules, and we also need a reform of thrust! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to take this unfortunate case on the occasion of anything, and I do not want to go into it any closer, because no doubt the independent judicial system has to decide on it, but I will briefly deal with the problems of haulage, which are thrusty from the point of view of executive officials. In principle, it is to be said that most of the problems arise in the case of visitors from the African region. The problems usually start when they are taken from the thruster to the guard car, then this continues in the aircraft. The crew of the respective aircraft, but also the passengers who have paid for this flight, naturally require that they not be disturbed. If it is not possible to calm down the delay before departure, the shift transport must be stopped and the deportation must not be carried out. However, this poses a major problem: If this thruster, who has successfully resisted the deportation, is brought back to the pushing station, it will be extremely difficult there. It turns out that someone has been successful. The next deportations will be very, very difficult for the executive officials, because of course everyone wants to get through the six-months-frist. - That's the one side. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, if, during the flight of the official act, the pendulum opposes, screams, spits, bites, too, it will be extremely difficult for executives. The crew, the passengers, are asking for rest, but the officials are lacking clear guidelines for how they are doing in such a case. In this way we come to the directives which the Minister has now drawn up. It is no doubt gratifying that these guidelines for airway deportation have been immediately responded, but I believe that they have been considered a little too little, because they are very difficult to implement. I think they need to be revised again. It is a beautiful document, but it must be borne in mind that the Black Peter remains with the execution organs in turn, because it merely prohibits the bonding of the mouth, but other solutions are not precisely defined. What happens when difficulties arise during the flight? – According to the new directives, the pilot has the power to decide in this case. How do you proceed when the affected person screams, spits, and more? – There are no solutions to this problem. What if a port of call has to be carried out and the officials have to leave the plane with the thruster? What if, for example, a pusher – for whatever reason – has to leave the place and start to randalize? – All these are questions that have not yet been answered. I believe that there is simply a need to draw up clear guidelines in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The intended use of a helmet must also be questioned precisely. I do not think that will bring the desired success. In conclusion: There is a need for reasonable solutions; Solutions such as air transport, which excludes the public, perhaps also in cooperation with other Schengen States, can be implemented in order to avoid any such conflicts that exist over and over again. Minister! Let us forget all those guidelines and occasions, we will jointly develop a reform of the thrust and conditions and guidelines to do so, and we will also take part in those executives who will then have to comply with these laws! We will be a reliable partner for this!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5503	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5524	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! So that there is no doubt – for we have had some accusations from the Freeman –: I think that it is terrible to stick to the mouth and I think that there should simply not be this oral adhesive! Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, however, there should not even be oral adhesives in Parliament for demonstration purposes. I would also like to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what is affecting me at least the same way – namely, with the same intensity – as this incident has happened, is how the united left have vowed to use this incident to bring about a change in foreign policy in Austria and thus to push for its ideological goals. You have seen that very clearly again today. They have submitted the motion for censure as a self-employed application. That means you don't want to vote on it at all. But how serious are you at all the mistrust that you bring to Mr Schlögl's attention? [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] If you decide to announce and make such a measure, I think you should go through it, but not just make a theatre or a theatre donor here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Petrovic has felt like bringing the disabled into this debate. I would just like to remind you that about two years ago, the mother of a disabled child killed herself and her child because she no longer knew how to help herself. She didn't know how to master her life anymore! At that time I missed a urgent request from the Greens concerning problems of the social state. I have also missed a motion of censure against the Minister for Social Affairs for abandoning such groups. I have also missed the fact that the Caritas had spoken in any way about such an unfortunate incident. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No auxiliary association spoke at the time. No Liberal Forum, no Green Party said any word at the time. All these "good people" always know exactly where it goes, but only where it is about their ideological topics which they have made to their political topics. Ladies and gentlemen! You use this incident to get a little further up on the edge of your ideological wish scale. And every means is right for that! For this, you're also teasing Austria. For what we have experienced again throughout the last week and even today is the scourge of all Austrian officials, the Austrian Parliament, the Austrian laws! And we will not participate in it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also a matter of the fact that They say, for example, that the impotent is a torture measure and that is why it has been abolished. The removal itself is inhuman and should not be carried out at all. The thrust is to be replaced by a vow. No one should be forced to stop it so that the deportation is guaranteed. Instead of the foreign police, which is constantly under attack, there should only be social workers. And a representative of an international relief agency has even said that anyone who is illegal in Austria who has a deportation notice should still be given money to move him to leave. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to ask you: Do you also think about what the Austrians think of such a policy? It would be time to think about it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I would guess once all these united left-wings, who are now making themselves so strong and wasting Austria,: Look You're looking at reality! Look What improvements have been made in recent years! There are now, for example, humanitarian associations for the care of the displaced. 10 million schillings cost these clubs, which should actually be there to deal with possible cases of problem. But what are they really doing? – They teach about how best to escape the deportation! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Cashing money!]] Furthermore, there are improvements by the use of the reliever, the vow, so that one can no longer be pushed into custody. The temporary right of residence has been introduced, as a result of which every asylumant has the right to stay in Austria for a period of three years. There is also a mental care and what do I know? But, Minister of State, you now see how this is thanked to you: As soon as such an incident – which I too regret – happens, all those for whom you make a policy fall over you and ask for vehemently your resignation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are always shivering in this direction, Minister, because you know that the media are sitting there. You always want good press reports. But I'll give you advice. In connection with the inclusion of Kosovo Albanians, the British Minister for the Interior said: We are not here to get applause from the media, we are here to make a policy for the UK. – I now give you the following advice: Think about it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Think about how You can make a good policy for Austria! Another word to the SPÖ: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rudas, has announced that we will not support a motion of censure against the Minister, so that he can comment that he is begging for applause from the wrong angle. – Mr Rudas, you do not need to be afraid that our applause will not be very frenetic, because the Minister has made a much too soft policy, a policy of the wink of the eye, which we simply cannot accept! [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Rudas, the Minister, all of the SPÖ should actually be glad that someone is supporting the Minister whose chair is already waving. But quite the opposite: He prays for our support! [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't need him anyway!]] I think you should think about the policy you are doing here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The arguments of the Rudas are as stingy as his beard!]] Mr Minister, my applause will be either not at all or at least very weak, for if you now declare that: It is only now that you are dealing with the practice of pushing off, that I must ask you: What have you seen your duties in so far? It has been suggested to you that the officials concerned are under immense pressure. They also know of our years of demand for their own plane for deportations. But you didn't do anything! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my speaking time is coming to an end, but the following, Minister, I would like to stress: In order to have a deportation stop for peripheral foreigners, you have exceeded your competences, because you have to comply with the laws and cannot change them autonomously by means of a regulation or a decree. I ask you to observe the implementation of the laws in the future. We will control you very closely!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5663	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. As with all in this debate, the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5684	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! I am very pleased that the Federal Chancellor is now present, because he clearly expresses the same view as the Minister for the Interior, at least in the eyes of the Liberal Group. In my opinion, it has been clearly clarified in this debate that there are fundamental differences in the view of political responsibility. It has always been tried to mix guilt with the question of abstract political responsibility. The Federal Chancellor told us that Federal Minister Schlögl offered his resignation – I do not doubt that it was so – but the Federal Chancellor rejected him – I do not doubt that it was so! Both gentlemen, both the Federal Minister and the Federal Chancellor, clearly believe that there is no political responsibility on this point. You just have to make that clear, then it's said, and it's supposed to stand in the room! He who wants to see can see, and he who wants to hear can hear! We know that now. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] To this end, there has been a wide-ranging protective aid from the Boulevard, in particular the "Kronen Zeitung", or that it was at least very helpful with the 90 percent adjudicated for Schlögl and with the simultaneous conjurations that one has to take care of the matter itself – even my previous speaker has just said that – I tell you in every sense: When it comes to the matter itself, percentages are not allowed to play a role! When it comes to human rights, percentages must not play a role! This is a personal right, it is a minority right. If the majority would have to determine what to do with one person or another who is in this society, then we would be at Lynchjustiz even before we did it. And hopefully we don't want to all of that! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That is why I am afraid that the majority in these questions will be conjured up in the way that has happened several times today in this debate. Because then it's someday also saying: The disabled – they are a minority! The deaf – they are a minority! The Legasthenics – they are a minority! The left hands should write with the right hand, and so on! In my opinion, this is a completely false access to people! A person must be allowed to live as he would like. And in case he violates the law, we have rules. But those who enforce the law must also comply with these rules, as do those whom we accuse if they have violated them. Given the fact that we have police officers who are not aware that this is hourly – hourly! – Picking the mouth can have harmful consequences for health, which still means that you can temporarily pick up leukoplast on it, and the Director-General for Public Security in front of the TV camera says that it has been particularly experienced officials who have been sent down there, I wonder: Who chose these people? Who didn't train her? Who is to blame for finally showing a technical misbehavior that they are now finding themselves as accused in criminal proceedings? Did they deserve that? – I say: unfortunately yes! But, Federal Chancellor and Minister of Justice, a criminal procedure at the stage of the preliminary investigation is not a completed criminal proceedings, it can happen at any time – and if justice can work independently – that is likely to happen too – that the circle of the accused must be extended. Also in the case of Lassing, first of all, it was not known who was one of the accused, but also the officers who violated their oversight of the service, can quickly enter the circle of the accused. That is why it is by no means indifferent, as is argued in this matter and how the justifications look. I say the following to you: It is a privilege of the Austrian criminal code that the accused are free in their justification. That's right, it's already been assembled by this side of the house as far as the three police are concerned. They are free, they have submitted a report, the Federal Minister has put it on the OTS screen. But when they came to Vienna, they found that this report cannot be kept entirely because of various testimonies, and therefore suddenly discovered that he had to be supplemented. At first it was the cry of the man who was killed, now it was the suddenly cremation of the man who was killed! Both cannot be right at the same time! What shock must an official be that, when he writes a report to his minister, he forgets that he has been bitten? What shock does he have to face? The Austrian ambassador to Bulgaria, who received her first, does not want to notice any bite wounds. You can read this in the media! Ambassador Potyka is free from suspicion of being a complicit of anyone: neither of the liberals, of the Greens, of the Caritas, nor of the Diacony. But if he did not notice this, then these three officials among the bites they have now claimed obviously did not suffer particularly much, otherwise Mr. Potyka would have noticed it. When I receive people who are injured... – This is not a pre-conception! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Prejudgment!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Of course!]] Both variants cannot be true at the same time. Please note: One of the two reports is wrong! And it is enough for me to be confronted with police officers who know that at least one of their reports is wrong – perhaps both, that would be possible. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, the presumption of innocence is true; do not be so wretched! As long as there is no judicial judgment, this presumption of innocence is of course valid. But the accused are all such people, so they are called after the criminal order. I'm sorry, that's it. To the risk of evaporation: Marking You are not, Minister of State, that the risk of eclipse, the danger of dating, is so obvious when an authority itself examines itself! It is true that justice is independent, but the survey bodies that serve the judicial system are again the same people to be investigated. We have debated this for a long time, including your gentlemen from the Ministry of the Interior and those from the Ministry of Justice, how to resolve the dilemma of criminal proceedings. – So with these methods you will not solve this by equipping the Director-General for Public Security with a special commission, although all of this, clearly, has been done in his central responsibility. The Director-General for Public Security is now examining with this Special Commission his own responsibility or responsibility of the President of the Police of Vienna or the Foreign Police? Is he supposed to investigate the lead line? And that should be independent!? – I’m really sorry, but I can’t follow that completely! This is precisely the political responsibility that you, Mr Minister, do not perceive, because you do not provide for a truly independent investigation in your own apparatus. Why don't you get people from far away, perhaps from some far away police department, put them directly to the Minister and let them work in the form of a real special commission? Why Get Would you like to see these people from your immediate surroundings? The following is also important to me because questions from the Federal Minister Löschnak were quoted by Mr Leikam. In fact, Leikam has forgotten the question 6 – Mr.Federal Minister out of service Lösnak is now no longer in the hall – which was then addressed to Federal Minister Lösnak. This one said: "Can you rule out that in the use of adhesive tapes pushers are injured?" – Please waste it; you haven't spoken of it at the time. And the answer from Löschnak was: "Yes, I can rule this out." Why did the answer have to be that loud at that time? – Because adhesive tapes were used in the same way. Thus, since nothing had happened then, Löschnak could say with apodic security that he could thus prevent an injury, and at that time he believed that at the same time it could be ruled out for the future that this would ever happen. How should officials act now if the chief chief of their home – that is the respective minister – says in a public response: The use of adhesive tapes is safe from health. Do you think these officials don't apply this if they have received such a message? – Of course, this is then applied. But to say afterwards, because this is not an extra part of the Weapons Use Act, is more than naïve. However, to ensure that we have a future, the Liberal Group has prepared a motion for a resolution which I can inform you of. This is the question of the delaying effect of complaints to the Supreme Courts. The omofuma that was killed has been postponed before he could exploit his legal possibilities. This should no longer happen in the future, and we therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In conclusion, I would like to conclude by saying: It is a matter of practice in this debate! Although this debate is also about the right of foreigners and asylum, it is a matter of practice – again and again. They praise your laws and praise what has happened. I'll tell you: If you are already praising your laws, at least you freely admit that their application at all corners and ends in the balek is powerful, so powerful that people are killed. This case, of course, is now an individual case, and you can say that a case like this should not repeat itself. But where do you have the guarantee that such a thing will not repeat if you do not intervene in the processes in a fundamental way? And that doesn't mean "limits on!", but that means: Even if you have to move someone – it will always happen that this must be the case – the right to be postponed has a decent treatment, then you have to take the necessary time – whether this is a medical examination or a procedure that needs to be carried out, or a means of transport that is suitable for it. But on line airplanes – and at the same time depressing 40 Dutch children who have to watch what is happening – and then to say: That's so! because apparently three return tickets and one-way tickets are cheaper than another way of transport if it's up to you, then I can only say: Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5801	The motion for a resolution on the deportation of asylum seekers until the end of all the pending procedures, tabled by Mr Kier, is under negotiation and will be put to the vote at the end of this debate. Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of The remaining speaking time of the Green Group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5826	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! If Mr Leikam and Mrs Partik-Pablé, together with Mrs Partik-Pablé, are in favour of critics, when he appeals to the corps spirit – "one for all, all for one" – if, so to speak, they are both a Wagenburg against critics from the churches, from the parties, not only from the Greens and Liberals, so if here a Wagenburg is formed, in whose midst those who actually have the responsibility, and all those who do not have any responsibility, must form the defence around, then this shows not only at what level Carinthian social democrats have arrived, but then is really a fire on the roof, because such a Wagenburg-Mentality has nothing to look for in this question with God! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Minister of the Interior! I can't hide it: Your speech was a disappointment for me, a disappointment because, in the run-up to these discussions, you said today that you do not want to get out of political responsibility. [[Abg. Koppler: You already knew that in the morning!]] But what did you do? – Today, they have made their way behind paragraphs, behind regulations and also behind the executive as a whole. That was all that was to be heard from your side. And then there has been a thin offer towards the establishment of a Human Rights Advisory Council to discuss this in an independent way. Federal Minister! This offer, coupled with what you want to transport behind this offer, namely to initiate a revision of the Security Police Act, is to be described as a Trojan horse. This is a further hallucination of human and fundamental rights. You can only oppose this, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That is why we are also making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! The further proposals that have come from your side and also via the media are not only disappointing, but truly grotesque. If you feel that a proposal of the liberals is worthy of discussion, that the removal of the charter is promoted in the European Charter, which is, so to speak, the thing that is connected with the European idea of social democrats and the liberals, that is to say, a move in the charter alliance, it is more than evil and must not really have any significance in this debate! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're a democrat!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What would you do?]] [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] If you continue to demand the bicycle helmet, the integrated helmet in response to what has happened, then it is not only grotesque – just as a news magazine has written – not realizing that this will actually be a proposal, but in terms of a practice of the Lower Austrian security authorities that it is humane and grotesque when people are pushed off with this safety helmet. From the safety helmet, from the integrated helmet, whether with or without a visor, it is only a small step up to the medieval method of the An-den-Pranger position. Here you can stick to the persons to be pushed off, as well as as asses ears. That's really bad! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I hope that these are just proposals from your department against which you will stand up with determination.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5936	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5951	Federal Minister! If you think you have to answer it and it is part of your political responsibility that you remain in office, and if your political groups support it, then we can only stop that you are also responsible with this intention and intention...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5969	I do not call on you to come to the end of the sentence so that you can just go on speaking, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e5985	I'm at the end of the sentence. That was a conclusion. Then you also have to answer, Mr Federal Minister, if not only parts of this House no longer feel represented in fundamental and human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6015	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. The remaining speaking time of your group is 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6045	High house! Mr President. I am not only concerned that this case of death has occurred, I am also concerned that there has been a racist and xenophobic mood outside of this House, which we had to take note of innumerable events. However, I am also concerned about the political strategy chosen by today's applicants or contributors of the urgent request. For they had to know that their strategy would lead to this polarization in the Austrian population and also here in the house a short time after it became known. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: eyes closed, mouth closed, ears closed!]] That's what I'm asking myself: What is the real background when this strategy is chosen? This must have several backgrounds, and I think it is worth working on them here today. And with that, I believe, you will also be morally abject, and I am sorry because I have always appreciated you as a discussion partner with high moral demands. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm not sorry if you leave!]] And I am sorry because it is simply immoral to instrumentalize a death case for one's policy, and you should take note of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] As you are not interested in a state of knowledge, not sufficient information, no written observation report. You only have your political goal in mind. What was the Minister of the Interior supposed to do? What is he supposed to do now? – Maybe intervene in a ongoing procedure? What is he supposed to do? I believe that from the first moment this Minister of the Interior has responded correctly and in accordance with his responsibility. And you should also take note of this as an opposition! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do not become more credible with pre-conceptions, with flat-rate convictions. You must also be responsible for all those moods which You have now launched your polarization strategy outside of this house. You should also take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] There are essentially two positions. The one side, the effective...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6122	I call Mr Cap.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6143	There are essentially two positions: One wants effective rules at the expense of human rights. – These are the people who are not concerned about human rights and who have already started this polarization strategy from their side with the foreign people’s desire at the time. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has been the meanest exercise of duty so far!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] And then there is the second page that says because of an overinterpretation of their human rights understanding: At the expense of effective measures, we also take note of uncontrolled and illegal immigration. – And this is also inhuman for those who get into our country illegally, find no job on the labour market, and if, then, only black work, and who live here in bad circumstances. That too is inhuman, and that would benefit you with your policy! In the end, you have to answer this politically and morally, not only here in the house, but also outside this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You're playing a very bad game. You know that the implementation of these laws, which you are essentially trying to change now because of these events, as many other institutions do, is always a gratification, a very difficult gratification between effectiveness on the one hand and respect for human rights on the other. Drive with your polarization strategy You have a large part of the executive on the wrong side, that is, there, and I wonder what a meaning it has. It was treacherous that Mrs Heide Schmidt said today: [[Abg. May. Chamberlander: Where's the leikam?]] You must resign, Mr President, because you benefit from this atmosphere outside the house, knowing that you have been involved in this polarization strategy, because it has finally come to this mood. I don't think that's all right, and that's not decent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Someone who benefits from the condemnation and inhumanity!]] That is why this demand for the withdrawal of the Minister of the Interior is a party-political game, but it is a matter of every material, political and moral justification. Then I would like to point out something: Who saw "to cause" on Sunday... [[Calls to the Greens.]] You should have watched this show. Mr. Dr. Sika concluded by saying: We should deal with people even more carefully! [[Abg. Wabl: More careful? What does that mean?]] This is a very important conclusion without any emotion without any use of feelings. For me, this is a very important sentence, expressed by Dr. Sika, from whom you want him to resign as well, from your considerations. This important sentence – spoken of by this man – deserves to be honoured here as well. Now I would like to see and hear your contribution in the fight against racism and xenophobia and not just this political game that you have introduced here in the House in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] React You don't! You too must take note of criticism. You too should not be so thin-skinned. You also give out neatly if you stand here at the speaker's desk. Take You are aware of this criticism: Yours today has been essentially immoral!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6251	The motion for a resolution on the suspension of the revision of the Security Police Act introduced by Mr Öllinger has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6281	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, if you can believe the published surveys, you have the majority of the Austrian population behind you. If you can believe the surveys, the majority of the Austrian population is against your resignation. [[Call the SPÖ: Great!]] I assume, however, that there is a serious confusion here. The support is more likely to be because, as Minister of the Interior, you are pursuing an exposed and restrictive immigration policy for which the Federal Government stands. One can be in favour of a restrictive immigration policy, as is the case with the Federal Government. One can be in favour of an open immigration policy, as is the case with the Liberals and the Greens. You can't be a immigration policy at all, like the liberals. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] But no matter how this policy looks, immigrants and people who seek asylum in this country – whether right or wrong – have to be treated properly! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Perhaps the boys in our group, but also the urures of the Dr. Cap on the side of the SPÖ, have a different access to this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I'm asking you if You've been talking to your officers in the last few days. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I have talked to many police officers, and they tell me that the gag has not been done in two exceptional cases, but that it has been very common practice in the past. - But everyone didn't know about it. Everyone did not know anything – a sentence that is also historically burdened. [[Abg. Young: Oh, that won't be on the federal list!]] I believe that police officers are in a very, very difficult situation when they have to push people off, that they are in an incredible stress situation, especially when someone who is to be pushed off comes by bites, spits or even screams. But, Mr Federal Minister, you must know that the officials are in such a stress situation! They must therefore adopt proper directives. And you also know that this problem has not existed since the last weekend. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Mrs Gehrer must also know that there are homosexual primary school teachers!]] Yeah, but there's a difference. May I just say to you, Mr Hofmann, that: There is no doubt that the task of the police, in accordance with our legal situation, is also to suspend foreigners after they have received a proper trial. But it certainly does not belong to the task of teachers to abuse children sexually. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Should the Gehrers step back?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the same behavior of an official!]] Federal Minister! I am taking your personal concern seriously from you – which, by the way, is also a matter of course in such a situation. I agree, of course, that you do not bear personal guilt; You weren't there either. But it is not about the personal question of guilt, it is about the question of political responsibility. As an interior minister, you expect the Austrians to know all the laws. If a traffic sinner on the highway overlooks a 100 km/h limitation and drives 130 km/h and tries to clarify to the executive officer that he unfortunately overlooked the restriction of God, so he has not known anything about it, this does not protect him from the punishment. I personally regret that the Liberals and the Greens are not voting on this motion today. I would also like to know here that I would have joined this request, because, Mr Federal Minister, if anyone says that he has not known anything, then caution is needed and then distrust is required.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6402	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6423	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The content of Mr Cap's speeches is obviously very dependent on the place where he is located. While here he is a very sensitive representative of the asylumers and the illegal immigrants, in Hernals he lets his people know that his political work is the prevention of another foreign flow to Hernals. In particular, Hernals is one of the most affected districts of Vienna with regard to the problems of foreigners. This should and must change. – Your Dr. Josef Cap. So, Mr. Cap, that's whatever you're doing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That has nothing to do with conviction. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] This is embarrassing, my colleague. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! On the night of yesterday, there were 49 illegal border crossings in Burgenland. These illegals were attacked by the border police, 30 in Kittsee, 19 in Kalch. There are 200 kilometres of border between them. I don't know how many illegal offenses have been noticed and so have taken place. Mr Stoisits! What do we do with all these illegals coming to Austria? What should happen to these illegal immigrants? I have not heard any such proposals from this pult to this day. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me tell you a case that has not hit such great waves in the public, but that is certainly known to the Minister for the Interior. It's about taking up an illegal in Mogersdorf, again in Burgenland. This illegal has walked with his head against the wall during the determination of his identity at the customs office of Heiligenkreuz and has then claimed to have been mistreated by the officials. In the hospital, Mr Minister, you know the case, it has been found that this abuse has not taken place. Nevertheless, there has been a very, very lengthy internal procedure against officials who for weeks have not felt well in their skin for months, although they have done absolutely nothing. Now to this illegitimate: When he was healthy again, he was being pushed off. All of a sudden, his identity was no longer recognizable! And you know that Hungary does not take back someone whose identity is not recognizable. So: He's staying in Austria. He's going to be pushy. And what happens, Minister of State? – This illegality enters the hunger strike and must be set on a free footing nine days after the start of the hunger strike. – This is Austrian law! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! If you want to, tell the public! We do not want this to happen, I must say that clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] The question now arises, Mr Wabl: Where's this man today? This question arises! What does this man have to do with today's livelihood, Mr Wabl? With blackwork? - May be. Or does it even have to be punished to survive? Is that the fate you believe in this illegal here in Austria, which you believe is true of all those who come across the border? Do you want these people to stay in Austria under such circumstances? – It can’t be what the human greens really want! This example shows once again that our Asylum and Xenophobia Act still has some gaps and that these gaps need to be closed. Yes, I say: must be closed! For example, the 6-month Frist is to be mentioned in this context. Even though we are discussing today's tragic death of Marcus Omofuma, his death must not be taken as the cause of avoiding and questioning the legislation on asylum and xenophobia in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The police service is becoming increasingly dangerous! Not the police, how you want to make the public believe, but the police service is getting more dangerous. The police are doing what you've been told by the legislator. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You should write that over your ears once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] More and more, officials are confronted with decommissioning who act according to the motto: If you resist, then the chances rise that you can stay! – That’s the reality! Why don't you talk to the officials who are actually involved? We should not forget the following in this discussion either: The officials at the base are executives. There are people like you, Mrs Petrovic, like you, Mr Oellinger, like you, Mrs Gredler, who are people, standing in the face of unspoiled Austrian citizens; Family fathers, grandfathers, just as few or just as aggressive as doctors, such as trams or, for example, liberal politicians. I would like to have said that to you once too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is completely incomprehensible for me to send the organized left letters, which read: We are convinced that the backgrounds that have led to this killing are to be sought in the constant intensification of the asylum and xenophobia laws and in a deeply xenophobic environment in parts of the police. Through the silent approval of brutal and inhumane practices against foreigners, in particular black Africans, by the highest authorities and some of the public, abuses of such groups have repeatedly been concealed and denied. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever sends such a thing has lost nothing in Austria! I would like to say that clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Should we also be postponed?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where are we being postponed?]] Whoever sends such a thing, who devastates reality in such a way and puts essential parts of the Austrian rule of law in the dirt and underlies the untruth, has lost in Austria the right to be taken seriously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Should we also be postponed?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This left, this organized left, demands the resignation of the Minister of the Interior. Even if Rudas sees this a little different: We will not support this demand!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6567	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. The remaining speaking time of the Liberal Forum is 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6589	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schweitzer, where do you want to move me? I'm loud all over the world, I swear to you! I'm really loud when it comes to complaining of a dead person. I'm very loud when it comes to defending people who are being treated unworthyly, and I don't care if you put me to Vanuatu or to Korneuburg, that's what I want to tell you! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would like to draw a short sentence from the strategy paper on European migration and asylum policy, because it seems to me very important. This strategy paper has been developed by the European Commission – of course in cooperation with the Council, Federal Minister; You'll know it better than I do. The European Parliament has called for additions, and I think they are extremely important. Such a supplement is in point 16 that not only the guarantee of transparency in the entire procedure is required, but in the last half sentence it is also said that an asylum seeker cannot be identified as long as his right to appeal has not been exhausted. Mr Omofuma's right to appeal expired only two days after his death. That is, he had not even been allowed to stay in Austria until all the dates had expired so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I know that this is not a criminal act, Mr Jung. I already know that there is the possibility of putting these people off before the end of their legal possibilities, but I think that is tasteless, I must tell you, and in that we are different! [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] [[Abg. Kiss: Tastelessness cannot be expressed in the law, however, Mrs Colleague!]] If we have a judicial system providing time limits for nationals, the same deadlines should apply to foreigners. I do not see why black Africans who are being postponed should be made an exception. I grew up with black Africans. I even shared a boarding room with a black African for two years because she was very interested in me because I was very interested in this people. And I have to tell you: We can learn a lot from them. Of course, these people have emotions. Of course, they have a different pattern of behavior than we do. But is there any psychological support in the run-up to deportations? Are these people actually being treated with the consequences of being pushed off? Are they being prepared for it? Is this to be taken into account as far as possible? - I don't think so. [[Abg. Young: How about the psychological care of Austrians?]] One always cries after the care of those who have to carry out the deportation. Of course, this is necessary, but just such care actually also needs the people who are being postponed, because they do not come "on funny" to Austria. Most are on foot for days, have had to cross some seas with some boats, but only through other escapades have they come to Austria at all. And one assumes from these people that they did this because it's so funny?- Oh, my God! I don't think so! I know some of these people, and I have to tell you: So much suffering and fear that these people are going through until they come to Austria at all, and the way they are being treated here are incredible! It's incredible! I don't wish anyone in the house to be a refugee once, but go through a foreign country for three days without money, and then tell me how you did, and that, although you know all diplomatic possibilities behind yourself. - You're terrible. Try it once! Drive to a country you don't speak. I would therefore like to make the following request from my group: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! They intend to bring only five NGOs into a tener body. I now ask you: Are the five others, for example, Mr Sika, Mr Matzka and other officials of your place of business, or are the persons who are really completely independent of human rights? Federal Minister! They say: If I'm a burden to the Federal Government, I'm ready to step back. Or: Rejection would be a convenient return – so you have referred to it. Federal Minister! You are a burden on Parliament, you are a burden on the Austrian people, and you are a burden on the international reputation of Austria. The Belgians, the Belgian Parliament, have responded. I wonder why the Austrian Parliament is not responding. Imagine it being a minister who would belong to the Freedom Party: What a cry there would be in this house! There is no doubt that we would all vote in favour of resignation, and only because it is a social democracy will it be an exception. I don't think that's right! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this context, I would like to say the following: If a doctor is suspended immediately – and rightly – because he takes out a false kidney, I wonder why officials who have to answer for the death of a human being are not suspended or at least – Mr President, I come to the conclusion! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] – are left until the situation is clarified. Federal Minister! You've been asked...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6679	The speaking time has expired!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6695	... to act quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6725	Next word: Mr Grossruck. The liberals still have 5 minutes of remaining speaking time. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Before that, I would say that the motion for a resolution concerning the establishment of a Human Rights Advisory Council for the consultation of the Federal Minister for the Interior, which Mrs Dr Gredler has just presented, is duly signed and is under negotiation. [[Prolonged opposition to the liberals.]] I repeat – apparently I promised myself: The speaking time of the ÖVP is now 5 minutes. Please, Mr Großruck.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6767	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On Thursday, 6th. May, Michael Kaltenberger wrote in the "New Volksblatt" – I quote –: "It is expected that Greens and Liberals will use the special session of the National Council on the death of Marcus O., who is in charge of asylum and xenophobia laws and the execution of them. That's her right. However, this will not change the fact that the vast majority of Austrians reject the uncontrolled immigration of foreigners." Ladies and gentlemen! How right Michael Kaltenberger was with his forecast! Today, some speakers have not only made a bill, but I have found it unbearable how the rule of law of Austria has been partially addressed here. [[Call to the liberals: The Amon was that!]] A horror scenario was painted, Austria was set up as a mystery cabinet. On the other hand, Spielberg's "Jurassic Park" is a peaceful island of the Blessed! That's what some speakers have said. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it right either, yes, I think it is just unworthy when some of the criticisms of Austria's human rights attitude come from. If you hear that, you could almost believe that Austria is a country where human rights would be disregarded. Ladies and gentlemen! There is now an example that punishes these statements, namely, the great willingness of the Austrians to help, as far as Kosovo is concerned. Many are active on site, many help in an unprecedented way with their donations. This is the heart of the Austrians – not the scandalized "left" heart, as some would like to see. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we are interested in an unscrupulous investigation. However, this cannot be done here and today through various information from Bulgaria or through press releases. In response to the question, the Federal Minister rejected some press reports as incorrect or said to interviews that they did not vote. It will then be established in the legal procedure who is actually right. In any case, it was discussed yesterday in the "Consistency" mission, and there the Director-General for Public Security also said that the facts are not yet on the table that there are very many inconsistencies and still unknown. I mean, we should wait for officials out of fairness to find out what the investigations actually do – and then a judgment should be made first. And the judgment, ladies and gentlemen, we will also leave to independent courts in this matter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We from the Austrian People's Party are in favour of a proper and restless Enlightenment. [[Abg. Aumayr: The Amon speaks differently!]] – Mr Minister, you have publicly sworn not to know anything about this whole thing. I believe you, we believe you. That decomposes However, they do not act quickly and create standards and conditions which are consistent with human dignity, but also guarantee legal certainty to officials in their heavy work. Mr Platter mentioned earlier in his remarks what major problems, what difficulties and what particular challenges are facing those officials who face deportations every day. These officials are also supported by legislative measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Schlögl! I do not demand your resignation – as some others have done! [[Calls.]] With your resignation, problems cannot be solved, but what I ask of you is something like a political wire rope. We call on the Austrian People's Party to bring together, on the rope of the rule of law, the space between the mandate of law and the performance or the performance of these tasks, taking particular account of the respect of human rights. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Minister! We will help you to strain a safety net. The ÖVP will not reject what the Liberals and Greens are doing, but also – I must say that – parts of your own group, which go a long way to you, Minister Schlögl. [[Abg. Aumayr: And the ÖVP!]] – If you mean Mr Amon, I must say: It is the right of young people to have their own opinions and to represent them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I am aware that you have an independent opinion, because you are not used to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How young is the head of state Pröll? Youth spokesperson Pröll!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We will stand behind you in the conduct of this matter. We believe that you have informed us correctly, and we are convinced that you have told us the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6897	There is now a speech by Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Your club's speaking time is 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e6918	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the "red alternatives" and the "left forum"! Before and during this debate, I have waited in vain for your proposals for solutions, as you would actually push down Rabiates and sorcerers. I cannot take your answer so seriously because I take the rule of law seriously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Federal Minister Schlögl! With all appreciation: However, I cannot take your proposal not to be taken very seriously in the event of resistance to the deportation. Mr. Federal Minister, it will have been talking around the world very soon, also with the help of the left "good people": In Austria you only need to spit or bite a few officials when you are in danger of deportation – and you already have permanentasyl! That can't be a solution, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! In order to straighten out the image of the Austrian executive in the case of deportations: There have been more than 50,000 deportations over the last three years, one of which has tragically ended. It says 1 : 50 000, ladies and gentlemen. We should thank the executive for this approach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Not for this one case, but for the other 49 999 cases. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I also have the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you for your attention and the short extension of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7048	The motion for a resolution just presented has been submitted to the Bureau in accordance with the rules of procedure and will be included in the negotiation. There is no more word message for this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This cynicism is unbearable! 1 : 50,000!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Am I responsible for this? – It’s typical that you’re still putting that on my head now! I don't know what else I'm responsible for!]] We shall now proceed to the votes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are now voting on a number of motions for resolutions. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Khol and others on the consequences of the tragic death of Mr O. – This request has been accepted by the majority. (E 177.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stoisits and comrades concerning security control measures. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades on the deportation of asylum seekers until the end of all pending procedures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Call the Freeman and the SPÖ: Where is the Kier?]] – Maybe you can calm down again! We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the suspension of the amendment to the Security Police Act. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a Human Rights Advisory Council to consult the Federal Minister for the Interior. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades on the trend change in the implementation of the Foreign and Asylum Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. Short debate on the reply to the question 5584/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7157	We now come to a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 5584/AB. This written answer has already been distributed in the hall so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. Before we go into the debate, I recall the speaking times: Each speaker has a maximum speaking time of 5 minutes; the first speaker for reasons has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Comments from members of the Federal Government and from state secretaries should also not exceed a period of 10 minutes. I now grant Mrs Magistrate. Terezija Stoisits as the first applicant for the statement of reasons. She has a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7187	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Have a long time ago You witness a racist incident – I say now quite neutrally – invited you to the Ministry of the Interior – at least I have been told and also read – to be reported personally by these witnesses about a racist – these were the words of the witnesses – assault by police officers against a black-skinned person who then showed himself to be French nationals. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] The invited ones of you then reported that you had shown great distress and had assured the eyewitnesses – probably also because the descriptions seemed very credible to you – that everything was being clarified in this matter. This is a measure, Mr Federal Minister, which I find remarkable. If you listen or if you read about this incident – it has also been reported in the media – that passers-by in connection with an official act observe something that does not appear correct to them, namely the way in which the Austrian executive has intervened, and then invite these people to the meeting place and talk to them, I find that remarkable. These persons were also equally impressed by you,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7223	Excuse me, Mrs Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has already begun, and I would ask the speaker to give at least minimal attention. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7242	... because you've given them so much hearing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But what has happened since then – since then has already passed some time; this incident was in the night from 3rd to 4th. March 1999 – it has happened is less glorious, and this has a lot to do with this afternoon, the debate we have held today. It shows how the structure and how the system work within the security device – in order not only to limit it to the police – are: It is walled and bunked. And the best Maurer – without now being understood as an attack on the professional group – is in this case the Interior Ministers. Federal Minister! That's also what makes me so affected – now I use the word you used so often – that's this game you're playing there, on the one hand: "I receive the eyewitnesses of a racist official act in the Ministry of the Interior, I am impressed by their descriptions," because they appeared credible, and on the other hand the result that comes out. For, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the five eyewitnesses of this perception of then flourish? – A trial before the criminal court for slander! What hurts me the most about this matter, however, is that it is precisely preventing what is called civil appeal. From each other completely independent, by chance the metro-based passers-by observe something – they had never seen before, they just happened to pass by the Schottenring and observed something that did not appear correct to them. The Minister of the Interior has given faith, and now the witnesses stand before the judge – and above everything else: Swamm over it! This is what seems to me threatening, Mr Minister. This is not about a dead person, but about a injured person, not so insignificantly injured, a person who – and therefore seems to me to be a little doubtful – has no interest in being here still great, because he is glad that he is no longer in Austria, but back in the country in which he lives in this case in the Federal Republic. He was sentenced by a criminal court for a completely different case. So it is not a human being, as you would say, from every crime far away, but he has taken his punishment away, and nevertheless it does not justify the fact that the police, according to a perception of citizens – now I quote from the protocols about the statements of those who have observed it – have used him against words like "wrong negro sou". That was heard in agreement by five different people – from the mouth of Austrian security officials. Minister! There's something wrong! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] And that's where I wonder – that's what I'm coming back to today's debate: What happens in such cases? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why do you defame 34,000 officials?]] Mr Parnigoni! I don't defame anyone at all, I'm describing what passersby, what subway users have observed and what they've done so much to report. They have only disadvantages because of this witness perception. They have only been made difficult. They have nothing of it at all, but they have something like a sense of law that tells them that such words, like the words just quoted, are not permitted from the mouth of Austrian executive officials, because they are quite clearly racist. And then nothing happens! There is nothing going on. And that, Mr. Federal Minister, is exactly in the light of the way the Ministry of the Interior is doing – to relax the bow again now. The Director-General for Public Security expressed his understanding in the discussion on the subject yesterday evening, saying: The responsibility for what happened – in other words, in connection with the Omofuma case – lies in the fact that it lies in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! That can't be the approach to all that's happened. The reports on racist attacks, on racist remarks abound. This is, as sorry as all of us and you are doing, a phenomenon that has increased in recent months. I therefore believe that you have to respond and not send out your double messages. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! An official act of Austrian executive officials and, if we now refer to the specific case, the arrest of a person, regardless of who it is, must be carried out in accordance with rule of law and rule of law. We have a framework for this, and in this context there are racist expressions, violent scenes, there is no room for invading. This is true regardless of the colour of the skin, which is quite independent of the nationality of the state, this applies to all regardless of other activities set by the person concerned. That's true for everyone! Federal Minister! The unrest, the fear, the uncertainty, the feeling of not being taken seriously, the feeling of not finding enough hearing, that is what determines the feelings of the community of black Africans in particular in Austria in recent months and especially now also after the tragic death of Marcus Omofuma on the most common. And you know that! You know that for people who do not look as we do in a subway station, which is much more visible, in Vienna – and now, Mr President, I am getting to know what happened in the CPT report two years ago – it is very dangerous for the police to fall into their hands – in the truest sense of the word. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7304	Mr Gaál has now come to speak. Mr President, you and all the following speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7329	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have considered the question of the Greens very carefully and, if I look at party policy considerations, I really cannot see any reason for today's questioning in the reply given very detailed by Mr Schlögl's Minister of State. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as foreigners and foreigners are concerned, there is really nothing to trade. All speeches and speeches are to be taken very seriously and must be discussed comprehensively, openly and honestly. There really is nothing to hide, Mrs Stoisits, and nothing to beautify. There is no reason at all to do so. On the contrary: We're not going over with the sponge. Any accusation of abuse or misconduct of officials shall be communicated immediately to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which shall initiate the necessary preliminary surveys. In the present case, a complaint against both officials was filed for alleged unjust use of force and for the case-law of Article IX of the ECJ, and the preliminary investigation was initiated. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know how such official acts take place. We know the violent defense against accusations of this kind and the very aggressive behavior of those arrested. However, if, as I have said, charges are raised against officials for alleged abuses, there will also be extensive research. In some cases this also leads to preliminary surveys, but in most cases the public prosecutor could not find a basis for initiating criminal proceedings. In the present case, a complaint was filed against the officials – I have already said this – and the arrested and reported Muhammad Ali V was sentenced to nine months of imprisonment by the National Criminal Court for Drugs and Drugs, of which one month was absolutely and eight months, and a ten-year ban was imposed on the foreign police office. Just, ladies and gentlemen: The identity is unknown! And we know what that means. Stand firm and know the crimes, the measure of punishment and the condemnation. I believe that this will certainly be done very correctly, but we will, as I said, still have to wait for further development. We have shown our attention and sense of responsibility when it comes to the implementation of these laws in the past – we will do so in the future, ladies and gentlemen. We can – which is verifiable – point to a Europe-wide very proven and successful policy. In recent years, we have been in the field of foreign law under the leadership and principal responsibility of Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Lock a variety of changes and also improvements performed. We stand for a decent and fair foreign policy, as it corresponds to our political intentions, and, of course, we are also committed to a proper and respectful relationship with all people and will continue to do so in the future. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are firmly opposed to all those who, instead of resort to hatred, xenophobia and aggression. We want to live together, not in front of confrontation, but in a cohabitation carried by mutual respect. I invite you to continue to implement this policy together with us!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7384	Mr Deputies will come to terms with Mr Dr. König. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7405	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Greens have been badly advised, after the serious debate we have held before, to bring in the request for such a reply. This is not a rejected asylumist, it is a man who was arrested in the course of observed drug abuses. And whether this is an African or a white man, it doesn't matter! We should all agree that drug dealers must be punished with the full hardness of the law! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You're worried about a drug dealer? I'm worried about the kids whose entire life is ruined by addiction. This should apply to our interest and concern. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They're talking about police assaults. They're trying to put the police here as a beating-garde. The facts you have asked in your request – you have also received the police report – speak quite a different language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] The Black Africans have injured three cops! They tried to resist the arrest. Yes, should the police no longer be able to arrest anyone they enter in the drug trafficking? Do the police have to be hurt? The police are risking their health, because they know how big the risk of infection in this environment is. – And your concern applies to the alleged racist statements of the so-called witnesses! You also asked whether the officials concerned had already been confronted with such accusations and disciplinary proceedings, and you have also received an answer to them. The answer is quite clear: it means that the officials involved have already been accused of alleged abuses. In the course of the preliminary surveys, the public prosecutor's office in Vienna – not the police, the public prosecutor's office in Vienna! – however, there is no basis for initiating criminal proceedings. – So that means: The allegations, the allegations, were false. And this is slander and must also be punished according to our criminal law. It is not true, therefore, that everyone who claims something is already sakrosanct. And that the matter has a system, comes out of a question I have raised from this occasion myself, and from the answer I received from the Minister. It is very interesting, because it shows that this method of slandering police is that they are hits, and that it also covers them with criminal accusations that the substance lacks. It's literally here: In 1998, 77 officials were attacked or confronted with unfounded criminal charges as a result of the action against drug dealers. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is not an opportunity to use these drug mafia, which is spreading here – no matter what skin color it has! It is not because they are black Africans, they can be protected and said that this would be racism. Whoever deals with drugs here cannot have the advantage of saying that this is just racism, and whoever slanders the police in such a case should think of the victims who are responsible for drug dealers in the population, especially in the field of youth! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The answer to the question is absolutely correct and sufficient, and I can only ask the Minister to continue to represent his officials here. In the fight against addiction crime, we must not lose sight of allegations that are false, nor of so-called witnesses.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7479	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7500	Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a lot of talk about "system" today. Mostly it was the police system that also addressed Mrs Stoisits. Mrs Stoisits! But I am now Your system is clear: Any executive officer who takes an official action against a black African shall be provided with the punch of racist action. And that's something we just can't afford! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They want to insure the executive with this racism accusation. If it goes according to your will, a black African, no matter what he does, should pull away unscathed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits! That cannot be your opinion of security policy! [[Abg. Wabl: That's not our opinion either!]] But that's your kind of politics! Mr. Wabl! Look What Mrs Stoisits is for! In this question, she has now made herself strong for a Nigerian or African who has become aggressive against executive officials who have caught him in the drug deal. Shortly before, she made herself strong for an African who died of swallowing some cocaine balls. And Mrs Stoisits immediately made a request because, in her opinion, of course, the executive officials are guilty, but not the drug dealer who swallowed his own cow. Mrs Stoisits! If this is your drug policy, I must tell you that the Austrian population will certainly not support it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have also made themselves strong for a Nigerian diplomat. – The head of the Diplomatic Academy and Ambassador has explained in a letter to the reader that the person concerned is not at all an ambassador and a graduate of the Academy, but only one who has taken this into account. And all these are people you stand for! So you can probably see the witness statements you are calling on and because of which you then overshadow the executive with dirt! Mrs Stoisits! You're doing so much in the police prison house! You've been there, I think, with a night watch. Explorers You're with the officials about the kind of black Africans! They not only look different as you said today, but they are also different, and they are very aggressive. This is obviously in the nature of these people. They're usually illegal, they're mostly drug dealers, and they're extremely aggressive when they're attacked by executives. [[Abg. Wabl: Is this the new theory of the race of Partik-Pablé?]] And in most cases they are also supported by the Caritas: The Caritas pays them the lawyer when they stand in front of the judge, and she also pays them the accommodation. This is the support of the Caritas! You should check with the executives once! There is hardly any official deal with black Africans, where there is no friction. In the case described in the request, a 1.95-metre-sized African has set himself against a 1.75-metre executive officer. The black African immediately grabbed the flashlight and started beating the policeman. That is what it has done, Mrs Stoisits! Not the executives have charged themselves with this, but the black African has tried to prevent them from doing the official business with the bar lamp! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'd like to tell you: Mrs Stoisits! I think you should really be careful in your hot efforts to protect the Black Africans from the persecution of the executive. They should be aware of the fact that they do not promote a very dangerous crime. For these are not hash dealers, but dealers with a very dangerous substance, which will put young people and other people at risk!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7567	Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7588	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would just like to focus on two aspects of this question, namely, the question of the question: Why were the staff of the present witnesses not taken up? – The Federal Minister’s answer was that because of the situation and resistance of the Black African, a reception of the personnel of the witnesses was almost impossible. This concerns the question we are discussing here. "Unfortunately" the Liberal Group has also tabled a question on the same subject. There the answer is just like that, because we asked the question differently. The answer to this question is that the witnesses as well as their legal representatives later reported to both the investigating judge and the police and that they were therefore sent to the investigating judge. I believe that these responses to each other alone on this point, which is very interesting in addition to the mandatory handling of a case-law, including the identification of witnesses. I think it is a pity that the body which prepared the answers to the question did not take care to answer the question raised by Mr Stoisits that the witnesses were subsequently caught. – This handling of precision in response to requests is also something that promotes this discussion here. For, in this answer to the question, if in part, what was said in the answer to our question, then it would have become much more transparent. But apparently it is a strategic approach of the bodies working out the answers to the questions to answer as little as possible, so that there is more interpretation for us. – I don’t like that, and I wanted to hold it from this point on! A similar fate has suffered a question that we have been asked in this context: We have discussed why the application of § 5 of the German Federal Minister of the Interior's regulation concerning the directives "Awareness of the dignity of human beings" does not work and whether the term "wrong negro-sau" corresponds to or does not comply with this Regulation. – The answer is simply: No, no, no, But it is not disputed with any syllables that this has been said in this context. I'm sorry! If you had said, No, and by the way, this expression didn't like it, it would have been something else. But it seems that the expression has fallen. So the answer was: no. I think that if the same section deals with two questions from two political groups, which are very similar to each other and are, above all, the same case, I would have more understanding of this if we were to look at them together and then give answers together, in a way that the Minister of State does not have to sit here and we have to discuss them just because the answers were not properly prepared. – This is another case in which the reins are apparently not really streamlined! This does not surprise you after we have now experienced a long debate on the urgent question. I do not want to take them up again, but we still have to debate the setting up of an investigation committee today. On what does not work in the ministry, however, you could make long lists! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7632	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7661	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of drug trafficking here and now and in the case at hand. The question raised in the question whether drugs were in play was answered with No. It is therefore not a question of drug trafficking here and today, but another example of how some human rights are dealt with in Austria. There is a case of example which has been done here near Parliament, namely at the Schottenring, where the executives or individuals of the executives have far exceeded their possibilities. On this occasion I would like to make it quite clear here and today that in principle we are not giving a flat-rate condemnation of the executive, but that we believe that the executive is at least 90 percent really in order. At the same time, however, we would like to point out here and today that individual members of the executive exceed their powers and take disproportionate measures of violence and that some do not adhere to laws or to general human rights. – Here and today, this is another example. I will come back to the specific details of this case: Witnesses have said very well that in this case Africans have been mistreated that Africans who were on the ground have once again been trampled and beaten. – This contradicts the correct human rights-based approach! And this question makes it clear again that there is a system behind individual acts of individual executive officials as a whole, namely a system with the very strong tendency to form the said Wagenburg over and over again. That is why we want to point out today that the Wagenburg strategy must finally end, that at last the massive Wagenburg strategies and structures of the executive must be broken through so that the reputation of the executive as a whole, of those 90 percent of ordinary, serious, conscientious officials, who are certainly doing their job with much tiredness, does not become more and more discredited. It is about showing the structures, it is about exposing the system, which repeatedly covers individual cases. And the urgent question was a means in all, and the question is also a means. Minister! You have disappointed me in so far as you unfortunately strengthened the structure, made the wall again, so to speak, and, apart from setting up a committee of inquiry with relatively neutral members, did not specifically mention any consequences. They spoke of consequences, but they did not speak of concrete consequences. And for me and for us, concrete consequences also exist in the exercise of responsibility at the higher level of officials! Or do you really have to be told by a university professor, that is, Professor Henrik Kreutz, that political responsibility also means knowing not only what is happening, but also personal consequences. Mr Kreutz has also said that it is possible that you did not know anything. I personally also believe that you did not know anything. But he said that this is negligent. And he has added literally that this is not only negligent, but also shows that you do not have the structures in hand. – And it is a question of the rule of law that a Minister of the Interior does not have his own official apparatus in his hand and more or less like a partially helpless Hampelmann hangs on the threads of his senior officials! That is why I ask you to: Cut these threads! Show that you really have the opportunity to do so! Of course, a personal correct attitude of resignation would have been. At the western European level, you have also sought it. Mr Kanzler Klima has, however, brought you back to the Central European tradition, in which there is unfortunately no political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7705	Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7726	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens and Liberals make it very easy on this matter. I cannot share their unilateral assessment in any way. Just the case you're describing is for me a case to which I can't give you an answer. I can't tell you what really happened that day at this subway station, according to best knowledge and conscience! I have heard of the incidents, I have read the media coverage in great detail, especially in a magazine, and I have decided to have the conversation with both sides. I have invited from myself the witnesses of this alleged incident, and I am very, very clear here that these witnesses have appeared to me to be very credible. And I went to the police officers, I was in the guard room at Karlsplatz, and I also spoke there with the two officers involved in this incident. And I say to you that these officials, too, have been very, very credible in their presentation. As a human being, but also as an interior minister, after I have heard both sides, I really cannot say openly and honestly who I can believe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Unfortunately, I have not been able to talk to the other person, but I mean, one should also deal with the witnesses. However, I have not been able to find a final assessment for myself, and I therefore believe it is important and correct that the independent judicial system take a decision on this. And independent justice is at work in the present-day Causa. The fact is that, in this case, Mr. Mohammed Ali S. of the Vienna Regional Court with 16. In April 1999, it was legally recognized as guilty of having acquired addiction, possessed property and left others in small quantities. The fact is that he has also been recognized guilty of violently attempting to prevent police officers from arresting him. I'm just saying, These two facts do not, however, relativize the alleged accusations of abuse. I think it is necessary to look at these merciless. And I also believe that this is true, what the witnesses claim and what you write in your request, namely: "... Meanwhile, he had support from his smaller colleague, who was on the black who was lying right in front of him with a rubber baton on his face, which is on his side, and invading his head, with the shoes on his body and rising into the face of the prisoner...". As the witnesses described this to me, it seemed very credible to me. And you use it here, too. Ladies and gentlemen! I must also note, however, that this man was led to the Lorenz Böhler Hospital following these alleged attacks and was subjected to a medical examination there. And if someone is painted like that, he must have very serious injuries. After the investigation, however, only a distortion in the shoulder area as well as cuts in the forehead were detected. And I have to see that too! I don't want to appreciate both. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is no longer difficult!]] However, I must consider both the form in which alleged infringements have taken place here and the degree of injury, so I must also take note of the hospital's investigation report. I believe that this presentation alone shows how difficult it is to make a final assessment and how difficult it is to say that what the officials claim is not true. That is why I am opposed to a pre-condemning of officials in this particular case, even as it has been done in the media. I do not want to deny that perhaps what the five witnesses say is right. What five people claim to be independent must be taken very seriously. And that's what I did. I have discussed this, the judicial system has also adopted this case, and the relevant investigations are also taking place. On the other hand, however, I would also like to draw attention to what the hospital findings have been, and I would also like to point out the judicial conviction. It's not my job to play the judge here. Rather, it is my job to do everything to enable the court to have the necessary information. I have done so, and if the decision of the Court of First Instance has been taken, the officials will have to fear or not to be afraid of any further consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7768	Member of the Commission. Petrovic has made a statement on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7789	Mr President. If I remember correctly the comments made by Dr. Partik-Pablé during this debate on the question of the answer – I assume it is – it has, for example, said that black Africans not only look different but are also different, namely, particularly aggressive and usually drug dealers. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I think that – if this statement has fallen so far – it is a totally unconstitutional racist derailment. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the minutes of these statements are distributed to all the clubs today and that this is the subject of presidential deliberations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7822	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will make the minutes available to you as soon as possible, and we can of course talk about it at the Presidential Conference. This discussion, however, was a contentious contribution. I'd like to hold on to that. There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7847	We now come to the debate on the request made by Dr Kier and Dr Petrovic to set up a committee of inquiry on the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the incidents that led to the death of the Nigerian Marcus Omofuma. The request has been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7912	The Rules of Procedure are the same as they did in order to have a question answered just now. I now open the debate by calling on Mr Dr Kier, who, as the founder of the request, has a speech time of 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e7936	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry has become even more urgent when one comes to the end of a long day when one makes the contributions to the debate happen, than I thought it was when we jointly formulated it to bring it in, because the debate and indeed some of the interventions of the Federal Minister have shown that there is a broad, intensive and sustainable need for an investigation into the political dimension. I would like to express my view at the beginning of my remarks: The investigation we would like to have is not to be seen in competition with the necessary criminal proceedings. The criminal procedure is one, but the structural issues which are behind the problem, the question of the political responsibility of the Minister of the Interior for the functioning of the structure of his house, for the lack of an overview, for which he may indeed be indebted in the moral dimension, which, however, has a special significance in the political dimension, the question whether, at all times, the senior officials of the House, from the Director-General for Public Security to the President-in-Office of the Police, the Vice-President and so on, have maintained the necessary information flows, all that is heard in the area of political responsibility in this sense must be examined urgently, in his political dimension. This is not about the criminal law side. I am saying this so clearly – in order not to say extravagantly – because I already know what the Members of this House will tell us about the government parties, namely that this was not the case because, without this, independent courts would examine it and so on. It is about this political dimension, namely the political dimension of an important aspect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Commissioner, because you are addressing me, I assume that you may still be talking about it today. [[Abg. Murauer: This is not just an assumption, but I will actually talk!]] If it is possible that three experienced officials take a measure that we have discussed for a long time today, namely to stick to the mouth, where Mrs Partik-Pablé also believes that this should not be... Sorry! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What shouldn't be?]] Wherever she considers that it should not be allowed. [[Call to the liberals: we understand you so badly!]] The microphone may be bad. So, as far as this mouth-to-mouth action is concerned, everyone thinks that should not be. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What shouldn't be?]] Glue your mouth! And they do that for hours, before many witnesses. That's what experienced police officers do. They do this only if they are quite sure that they are allowed to do so. Or do you want to imply to these police officers that they deliberately do something before hundreds of witnesses that they themselves are convinced that it is not allowed? I would like to have examined this political dimension, which is how it is possible for three experienced people to do something in a police apparatus without obviously having an inconsistency, probably because it is system-immanent. That is a political question and not a criminal question! Next aspect: What is the practice in the application and in the performance of drawers? In doing so, I would like to say, in order to avoid being mis-quoted here again, that: We know that it is sometimes also necessary to postpone people who have no right of residence in Austria. However, it is all the more important that everything that happens in connection with it should be governed by the strictest rules of the rule of law. It is therefore important to carry out an investigation into the practice, the practices, the non-chalances, the conditions in the suspended prisons, if there must already be any. I believe that they are much too often used. Another aspect that needs to be examined is the proportionality of resources. This is something that must be clarified in the political area. The decision on the proportionality of the funds must not be left exclusively to those who have to enforce something, because they tend logically to intensify their resources more and more. They have an overwhelming tendency, which is quite logical. It is therefore necessary to define clear criteria which must be revised over and over again so as not to lead to an overwhelming trend. The one to whom one gives a palette of resources in his hand, if he can work uncontrolled, tends to use the strongest, that is, the most promising means for him, and not the least. That's in the nature of the thing. It is wrong to expressly moralize this afterwards – if the service supervision does not work if there is no supervision, no trainings and no accompanying support. In this context, the question should also be asked: How do we keep it or how does it keep the interior, but also the remaining federal administration – in this case the interior resort – with the disciplinary law and its application? There is a right of discipline, which apparently no longer has a preventive effect at all. People are sure: If we get away with a blue eye at court, then the disciplinary procedure is already done as well as it is done. In fact, disciplinary law should be in place to enable, even if a judicial criminal act has not yet been taken, to discipline the officials concerned by placing them in the barriers within which they must work, for example, so that human rights are not violated. Therefore, an important aspect for this Committee of Inquiry is the question of: How is the disciplinary law handled in the event of service violations?, without neglecting the criminal aspect, but it must not be in the foreground, but it is the background of the procedure as it goes. Because if someone is condemned by the criminal courts, I can only say... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] No, no, no, no, Then there's a disciplinary procedure. But even if no criminal proceedings have expired, that is necessary. But that this does not please the honourable Member, I cannot understand in this case. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I don't hear what you're saying, but you're talking too much!]] If I have to send you to the company Neuroth, you have to tell me in time, there are hearing aids. The question to be clarified by the Committee of Inquiry is the political content of the procedures, the political content of the practices, the political content of the fact that three officials were able to commit criminal acts for hours without having any awareness of the law, and is ultimately the compatibility of our practice of execution in the field of pushy and asylum rights with European and international human rights standards. I think it is essential to examine this in the political area. It is only to be considered as if it were a purely judicial case. In this respect, I would like to seek the approval of the setting up of this Committee of Inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8040	Mr Schwamlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8062	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the case of Marcus Omofuma has caused all of us to be appalled. It is true that the measures that have been taken in the past have been initiated by the Minister. The Federal Minister for the Interior has taken the essential steps we have expected here in Parliament and the Austrians. On the one hand, the Minister of the Interior has initiated all that can lead to the clarification of this case. It has at the same time determined by regulation how to and may be postponed in the future. And from this point of view, it would be absolutely wrong and wrong to send the signal that we are not first and foremost interested in the clarification of this case, that we are not first and foremost interested in taking forward-looking, correct steps, but that we are interested in creating a tribunal here, which could at best be misused to bring this matter into a wrong look through media. That is why we will not agree by the Socialist Group of this House to the establishment of a committee of inquiry, because this committee would not have an opportunity to do a good job from the start, but would at best be misused as a kind of tribunal. But we can't need that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who read the request and the statement of reasons, and those who have listened to Mr Kier, could in principle see only one thing: that Mr Kier is not prepared to recognize what the Minister is trying to do, what the government parties are trying to do, and what this Parliament, in the end, intends to do. The aim is to install the Human Rights Advisory Council through the Security Police Act, which is why I hope we will decide as soon as possible. This advisory board has been cut off by a number of previous speakers, the potentially good work of this advisory board has been called into question. But I think that if representatives of independent justice work in this Advisory Board when the NGOs are represented and, of course, high-ranking officials of the Interior Council are involved in this advisory board, then the work done in this Advisory Board can only have the following objectives: to recognise the weakness of the NGOs and, secondly, to advise the Minister in order to prevent future abuses and, at the same time, to take those steps that are of utmost importance for the executive, because the executive needs assistance! It would be completely wrong to believe that it is easy for an official to keep rest and overview in such a stress situation. It would therefore be the most wrong signal on the part of Parliament to go here and, on the one hand, to defuse the officials concerned and, on the other hand, to blame the Minister for possible misbehaviour. That's why our foreign exchange is: Let us see our possibilities here in the National Council! Let us create the legal framework that we need to work on successfully in the future! – And something else should be said clearly and clearly: A sensitive issue of this kind must not be misused for political change!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8108	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8129	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I had the impression that all the speakers were honestly affected and not only were concerned, even though this was not felt by all the previous speakers. I think the case of Omofuma must also reflect the concern in this House. We have certainly explained this accordingly. Federal Minister! I would just like to point out, of course, that the Austrian People's Party does not agree to the establishment of a committee of inquiry, because it is good practice, Mr Wabl and Mr Kier, that, in Austria, account is taken of the rule of law that independent courts are concerned with the cases that these courts have to investigate, to carry out consents and to speak law, and that we are not doing another, a second, parallel investigation. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Wabl and Dr Kier]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also trust the Landesgericht Korneuburg and the U-director Carolin Rak. Federal Minister! Just one more soon. You quoted Cardinal Joseph Cardijn. You mentioned his statement that every day you should start anew. – Minister of State! The Austrian People's Party – if you can hear me; no, the Federal Minister is not here – is the same view as you! We too want to do everything we can to clarify this case in order to know exactly what it is all about. Cardijn also says that we have to see, judge and act. Federal Minister! If I may draw your attention to the fact that you should also see, I am surprised that you do not know today who did not know anything in this Republic. They did not know and had little information about what happened in connection with deportations or return of asylum seekers to their home country. That is why I would like to ask you to take a little more account of the vision and to take action in addition to the assessment of the case. If You are now so kind, Minister of State and colleague Schweitzer,... – Please. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl talks to the government bank. May. Schweitzer.]] [[Abg. May. Excuse me!]] If I refer to the Federal Minister in my speech, I would like to try to get an opportunity to be heard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! One thing should not happen when acting: police officers, gendarmen, executive officers stay on the track. I think there are clear directives to be given. There must be appropriate training and care in dealing with the most difficult cases. And a deportation is indeed one of the most difficult acts of office! The officials concerned have a lot of resistance and the pain, despair of the asylumers concerned. With all this being done, while respecting every law, an enormous stress situation is very often brought to the officials. Federal Minister! The Security Academy, which has been mentioned by you before – and we hope that it will be realized soon – would have a classic task here and should be there to exchange experiences, to prepare training courses, to organise seminars and to take into account international exchanges of experience, because in other countries similar problems are faced. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it should be mentioned again: The Austrian People's Party confesses itself to the Austrian rule of law, confesses itself to the independent courts, to the independent judicial system, trusted in it and is against the establishment of an investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8195	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8216	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If an opposition party requests the establishment of an investigation committee, it is legitimate to examine once and for all the motive behind it. And this motive, ladies and gentlemen, of the "liberal Greens" or of the "green liberals" – depending on how you want it – is very easy to see. In fact, it is not borne by seriousness in the political debate. Ladies and gentlemen! And just as you have today brought in a motion of censure, which is actually no one at all, just as you do not seriously want to set up a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can tell you one thing: Through this tragic incident, which has been committed, on the one hand and through your political agitation on the other, you will enter the history of Parliament with your improper mistrust. It is incredible if you let a minister talk about the media for days that you are going to confront him here with a distrust, but if you do, then you will put in a self-employed motion for a resolution, which you know is being assigned to the Committee on the Interior and will not be put to the vote until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. That is the inconsistency, Mrs Schmidt! Just a politician like you, who writes so much honesty on her flags, wants to make the public aware on the one hand that she will make a distrust proposal, but on the other hand, she says almost in parentheses: We do not want to vote on this. – This is an inconsistency and a procedure that disqualifies itself! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Something very similar is actually behind your request for a committee of inquiry. It is not a question of establishing a political responsibility for deportation practice. The Federal Minister did not assume political responsibility for death, but for the practice of deportation. He made his mistake, and he presented an extensive catalogue of measures. You are, however, concerned to abuse this issue in your opinion, in order to ensure that, in general, another asylum policy takes place in this country. And on the other hand, we will take care of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kier! I'll prove that to you too! There is no doubt that the use of adhesive tapes in the deportation of pushers is not acceptable. There is also no doubt that the use of syringes for the sedation of deportation detainees should be rejected. No question at all! But, Mr Kier, you do not even have a interpretation, you have not even made the slightest attempt to offer even any alternative to how to legally conduct a deportation procedure, in your opinion, actually here. You have not even made the attempt! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: You didn't listen!]] You have just said that a measure is not acceptable. You're right, I agree. But they said in the same breath, also the use of a helmet that is open at the front is not decent. Mr Kier! You have remained guilty of the Liberal Forum and you too by the Greens of the public. What is your proposal? . I cannot believe that you are actually saying that all the forced measures to maintain the deportation process are illegal, because that meant that our police are exposed to non-confidential attacks by those who are to be removed. I can't assume that you want to suspend our executive. But what would be the further consequence? – That there was no deportation at all! Please, stay honest! Stay with the truth! Tell the population that you are in fact of the opinion: Austria is an immigration country! In Austria, everyone has to get asylum, whether for political or economic reasons. – But don’t do that, and don’t hide behind hypocritical arguments!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8270	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8291	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is amazing that, according to statements about the differentness of people with different skin colors, the debate on the part of a liberal MP is then reduced by how the technique of human trafficking can be achieved. Whether the Constitution and the human rights of the laws are there seems to be no longer a role to play. [[Abg. Scheibner: Think about your word about the disabled!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are so weak that I am not...!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to You said you were against an investigation committee because it would only be a tribunal anyway. In this context, I must already ask the members of the government's clubs why they had more or less of us in the nose than we had negotiations on the Rules of Procedure concerning committee of inquiry, and when you, Dr. Khol, and you, Dr. Kostelka, said that if it came to this Rules of Procedure, i.e. if there is a guarantee in the Committee of Inquiry that witness protection and procedural rights are guaranteed, then there will be re-examination committees, provided that there is no risk of a tribunal committee. I note with great regret – this is also an unfortunate incident – that the word of the two government club members is obviously very little worth it. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also note that the Minister of the Interior uses different rules of play for his top officials – not for the small officials who then hang up and get a trial – than for each Austrian citizen and for every citizen. For in the Austrian Criminal Code – this should be the case for the Minister of the Interior and the police should know this very well, especially the leaders of the police! – is definitely regulated what it has in itself with the error of law, namely in § 9 para. 2 of the Criminal Code. In this it says that a legal error – I did not know that it contradicts the ban on torture, I did not know the recognition of the Graz UV – that this excuse does not count for every citizen and for every citizen, not count at all! For otherwise, everyone who has broken a law would speak out: My God, I didn't know, I didn't know, I didn't read the relevant Judicatur. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This presupposes that he does it himself!]] It is to be read, Mrs Colleague: The error of law must then be blamed if the injustice was easily recognizable to anyone – perhaps it was not, in particular, not for the officials who would then have extinguished the soup at the base – or if the perpetrator had not made themselves known by the relevant rules, although he would have been obliged to do so in accordance with his profession, employment or circumstances. - Quote. So I'm asking you: Who, if not an executive who carries out deportations or orders deportations, has to familiarize himself with the regulations and the jurisdiction? I'm really asking you! Federal Minister! I have one more question to ask you in particular. It has been said that the tips of the executive, mentioned in the urgent request of the Greens, have assured you that they have only heard of these bonding practices at the beginning of May, of these torture practices. But someone must have answered the questions raised by the Greens from 1993 and 1997. And if internal ministers, their predecessors, have apparently signed the answers without reading them, then I can no longer believe that someone has written them in trance without knowing what he or she is writing. Perhaps you will tell us who designed these responses, because at least this person in the field of the administration of the interior must have known of the accusations, and at least this person would have to rely on the relevant rules to familiarise himself with reality and to clarify himself. If this is not clarified, Mr Federal Minister, not only is the word of the clubmen broken, but then there is no longer even the trace of political responsibility in Austria – and I believe that you too cannot want to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8359	There is now a speech by Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8381	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Gospod Minister! Minister! High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it should be made clear why we have tabled this self-employed proposal. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be interesting!]] The story was a very simple one. It was clear that the SPÖ would vote in favour of its ministers. It was very clear, of course, that the Freedom Party will also hold the Minister, and it was also clear that there will not be anyone – or at least one or two – with the EIA who will be willing to take part in a request for distrust. We want the debate to continue in the committees and come back here again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ah-Rufe at the Liberties]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] You would have said today in a simple vote or not to vote on our motion for a censure: It's all right anyway, what the Minister is doing. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We didn't want to do it that easy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No political capital beat!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A fresh deed!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Paragraph 33 of the Rules of Procedure speaks clearly of a committee of inquiry, and we demand that it be used. You can now show how courageous you are if you at least vote in favour of this request. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It's not too late yet! If you have already become clear, the vote will take place soon. We shall see who of you will rise, ladies and gentlemen. The mere mouthwork is not enough for Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Haigermoser.]] One thing, Mr Minister, has become clear, precisely through your behaviour today, through the reply you have given here, through the following speeches and also through the words in the press, which are constantly saying: I didn't know. It didn't go over my table. I didn't know that. – That is why we need an investigation committee if not even the Minister knows what is happening in his own home. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a "high point" now!]] They now offer us an advisory board as a replacement. They have said for themselves that the advisory board will be relentlessly informed. – Yes, why should political responsibility not be fully clarified, Mr Minister? Explain this to this House! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Tell me clearly and clearly: Why did you offer your resignation? Why, if everything's okay, Mr. Minister? – That was a farce, a no-na question to the Federal Chancellor! That's inseparable, ladies and gentlemen. If nothing is going on, you do not need to offer your resignation; But they offered him, knowing that he is not accepted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Maybe a few simple comments from a non-special [[Call the liberals: Oh, non-special!]] A police officer who knows he can get hurt has to take care of it. There are gloves, and there are tear and bite-resistant clothes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's a simple thing to explain. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has to do with people who are in police custody, one knows that these persons are to be cared for medically, then one knows that they are also to be examined medically. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] That is why I tell you, Mr Minister – I am not a doctor, I am only married to a doctor: [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you serious about this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's enough for a promotion!]] I would not trust a sick person to stick a tape over his mouth to a bronchite, no matter how he behaves, because I know that this would be a great threat to his life. There is no need for a special training, Mr Minister, for this one only needs a little humanity and human understanding. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Something, ladies and gentlemen, distinguishes the rule of law from the rule of law, namely that torture is never allowed, for nothing and again, not for a confession, which then, as it were, shows the truth! Torture is simply not an instrument of the rule of law, since the rule of law must fit. Nothing's useful. This means that the rule of law cannot and must not apply. This is the difference between the rule of law and the rule of law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand that every time we ask the opposition to set up an investigation committee, we are told that in Austria we have courts that work well and that we should let the courts work. – Of course we also say liberals: Sure, the courts are supposed to work. But we want to know who is politically responsible for the mistakes, and there are research committees to do so. Have the courage and submit the request for the abolition of § 33 of the Rules of Procedure! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Kiss, Murauer, everyone has spoken about who did not know anything in this state. Everyone said we had to investigate. – Of course we need to examine, your own request includes that, ladies and gentlemen! But if the opposition calls for the political leaders to be mentioned here too, then suddenly you are no longer ready to go along. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Time!]] However, the vote will take place shortly. There you can participate, there you can show your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8613	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We now come to the vote on the request from Mr Dr Kier, Dr Petrovic, to set up an investigation committee on this subject. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00168_d7e8649	At today's meeting, self-employed applications 1079/A (E) to 1082/A (E) have been submitted. Question No 6217/J to 6240/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 19. In May 1999, 10 a.m., it will be convened in writing. Today's sitting is closed.
