ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3288	Ladies and gentlemen! I can give you a warm welcome to 169. I welcome the meeting of the National Council, which I declare open, and I ask you to take the places. The Official Protocol of 168. Meeting of 10. In May 1999, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Main, Haller, and Dr. Schmidt. Mr Van der Bellen spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3325	Mr President. In accordance with Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure, I call on you to give Mrs Partik-Pablé a call for an order. At the end of the last sitting of this House, the Members of this House, Mr Partik-Pablé, said: Black Africans "do not only look different...", "but they are also different, and they are very aggressive. This is obviously in the nature of these people." In my opinion, these are clearly racist remarks, and I can remind the House that in Austria any form of racial discrimination is prohibited by constitutional law, apart from the question of good taste. I can only be surprised that a Member of Parliament, who is a judge in the civil profession, can speak out in such a way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3368	Professor, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3383	I am also aware that this incident was dealt with in the Presidency. However, I cannot accept the fact that Mr Scheibner says that this has been misunderstood. I would ask you to call for an order, and I am well aware that, in view of such statements, a call for an order is a trivial penalty.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3419	High house! According to § 103 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided on such a request without reference to the National Council. You know that this statement, which has now been mentioned, took place at about 8 p.m. in the last sitting. Mrs Petrovic spoke on business and did not call for a call for an order, but asked for a referral to the President-in-Office. The President-in-Office of the Council has dealt with this matter, and the President-in-Office has also made no request for a call for an order from the Greens or other political groups, because it seems to be aware that such a statement has to be made politically, as has any other statement in this House. I therefore do not give a call for order. We therefore continue in the completion of matter. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3446	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject Agenda 2000 – Impulses for Rural Agriculture and Economy First of all, Mr Schwarzenberger referred to the reason for this current hour. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3476	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The contribution of agriculture and forestry to national income and gross domestic product and also the number of agricultural and forestry workers has fallen continuously in recent years and decades as in all advanced economies. However, an economically viable agricultural and forestry sector is important, as it is the foundation for overall positive economic development in rural regions. According to a study by the Economic Research Institute, 660 000 Austrians or around 20 percent of all employees are still working in agriculture and forestry and in the downstream and downstream areas. A farm job thus ensures three non-agricultural jobs in the rural regions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the last ten years, agricultural investment has shown a very interesting development and has shown that farmers are accepting the challenges they face. The structural investment of about 11 years ago, i.e. in 1988, had a financial volume of 7.8 billion schilling. Construction investments in 1994, i.e. in the year before EU accession, amounted to 11.9 billion schillings, and construction investments in 1997 amounted to 18.5 billion schillings – with no share of VAT. That is, since EU accession, investment in agriculture has increased by 50 percent. But that also means that any schilling that goes into agriculture – whether as a compensatory allowance, as an environmental support, as an investment promotion – will be reinvested immediately with 50 percent increase by farmers, thus ensuring very many jobs in the rural regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means that farmers are willing to accept these challenges, but they need clear and secure conditions. How else should they decide on the future of their businesses and on necessary investments? – The outcome of the Agenda 2000 negotiations is a major economic challenge for the rural family farms in Austria. At the same time, however, clarity on market regulations and on the financial framework of the agricultural policy will be established for the next seven years. Minister of Agriculture Molterer and Vice-Chanceller Schüssel have succeeded in maintaining important Austrian concerns. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I only mention the degression in the compensatory payments imposed by other countries and the Austria opposed a degression of size, which means that the degression of small businesses could be prevented. A solution could be found for the production of lime particularly in the western Länder, which have large alpine areas, which is an important area of production. The milk quota will remain until 2008, i.e. not only until 2006. The price reductions have been lower than originally proposed by the Commission. – These are key points for farmers. The new comprehensive programme for integrated rural development will be accompanied by an agricultural policy accompanying the second pillar of EU agricultural policy. Austria has already played a leading role in these measures. We are at the top of Europe with our environmental programme, and Austria is the only country in the 15 EU countries in which the environmental programme is offered across the board; in all other countries it is only offered in individual regions. Austria has already participated in these measures, as already mentioned, leading up to now. We are at the forefront of our environmental programme. However, this trend and development will also continue with the new OPUL 2000 already negotiated in Brussels. Integrated rural development also allows for the introduction of a base amount of the compensation allowance for farmers and farmers in disadvantaged regions. The National Council has already advocated a resolution on this base amount, and now it is about ensuring in Austria the implementation of the base amount in the federal budget for 2000. The programme will continue to provide the opportunity to promote the processing economy. A processing industry, which is competitive on the European market and on the world market, is the key condition for farmers to be able to produce a reasonable yield from agricultural production. We also expect that, in addition to the integrated rural development programme, the rural regions will be given an appropriate share of Objective 2 measures in regional and structural policy, as a result of the new regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Last week, the European Council decided to have a framework directive on renewable energy sources drawn up by the Commission as soon as possible. The framework directive required by the Council aims to make renewable energy sources more competitive. An important signal to this is also the announcement by Finland that it will focus on renewable energy during its second half of 1999. Finland, together with Sweden and Austria, is a pioneer in the use of renewable energy sources. In Austria, too, the Federal Government has undertaken to improve the framework conditions for renewable raw materials. For example, wood-discriminating provisions in construction regulations and support provisions need to be removed. The obligation to mix 2 per cent biodiesel with the diesel fuel is also a signal from Austria to the entire EU. A study by the Ministry of Social Affairs also confirms great employment opportunities and employment effects in this context. If we were to use renewable raw materials accordingly in Austria, up to 50,000 additional jobs would be possible. There is an increase in our forestry industry of about 30 million feet per year, of which we are currently using 18 to 19 million feet. So there would be the potential for this. Agenda 2000 presents enormous economic challenges for farmers and rural areas. However, it also brings opportunities to be seen. This is why the Federal Government and the Economic Association have also developed a joint action programme for rural areas with the aim of focusing the economic, social and cultural importance of rural areas on a common policy action and developing development programmes for the future of rural areas. "The country must live!" There are a total of five points: creating new jobs in the country, ensuring equal opportunities in quality of life, reducing rural farms, renewing villages and securing the future. This also includes a fairer financial compensation for small rural communities, the development of projects and the use of ideas from the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mean ideas that we can provide together as agriculture and economy for local services, such as national and regional "smankerl" in our tourism companies. This is a development that will also integrate other sectors. A positive development of agriculture is only possible in the long term, if tourism, gastronomy, industry or, for example, local supply have a positive development potential. The country will live if we provide the population with improved framework conditions and thus enable rural people to have hope and confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3578	On the issue of this current hour, Mr Mag. Molterer reported. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3599	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Active and economically successful agriculture is essential for the future of vital rural areas. At the same time, however, it is clear that a positive development for agriculture is only possible if we do everything we can to ensure that the rural area as a whole, with all its parts, with all its population groups, receives this positive development opportunity. It is therefore crucial that Agenda 2000 as the second pillar, as the second political pillar, is aimed at this integrated rural development. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this week, on Monday, the formal decision on Agenda 2000 has been taken by the Council of Agriculture Ministers, so that the implementation of this second pillar of the common agricultural policy is now fixed and there is nothing in the way of achieving it. The main focus of the Austrian agricultural strategy remains to maintain the rural family business, the rural family business. The basis for this is the European model of agriculture, which means that we want sustainable agriculture, a comprehensive management of the country, a agriculture capable of fulfilling all the functions it expects, and an agriculture which is competitive in the long term. During the Austrian Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we fixed this second pillar of the rural development of the integrated rural area in the European agricultural policy. Now it is about creating new opportunities for income and jobs by means of internal-Austrian implementation at regional level, at the level of the development perspectives of the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that agriculture, as I mentioned earlier, plays a key role, not only in preserving environmental performance, but also in ensuring the long-term quality of our food supply, not only for the preservation of attractive habitats and recreation areas, but also a key role in securing jobs in agriculture itself and in the downstream and downstream sectors throughout the agricultural and forestry sectors. Of course, support for rural regions and agriculture in the context of job creation also plays an important role. I would just like to mention, for example, that the development of the rural regions is a key role in infrastructure for farmers and for all those concerned in the rural area, with about 300 million shilling in public support, ensuring about 3 000 jobs and thus employment for about 3 000 people. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you think the highway in the Ennstal, Mr. Minister?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must take the following key points into account in the development of this "rural space" programme on the basis of Agenda 2000 and we will implement it. First: Rural development secures us the opportunity to offer environmental programmes throughout the future for farmers and agriculture. ÖPUL 2000 will continue to be co-financed by the European Union by 50 percent in the future and represents a key element of an environmental strategy for total agriculture in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, it is clear that taking into account and paying off natural disadvantage is a key element of this rural development strategy. It will therefore be possible, as of next year, to switch mining promotions to individual operating difficulties, and it will be possible to introduce the base amount for mining operations so that the management performance in the mountain area is also honoured accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also clear that investment support for farmers will be increased in the future on the basis of this new rural development programme. I am thinking, for example, of the question of the "young transferors", which plays an important role as a positive signal, as an incentive for promotion. In rural development, this programme will, of course, provide support for the sector plan in the future – an important instrument to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian processing companies, including in the meat, milk and fruit and vegetable sectors. We need these competitive companies, because we can only make the most of the opportunities of the internal market. Ladies and gentlemen! There will also be new prospects in rural development policy; I am thinking, for example, of the new possibilities for forestry. In the forestry sector, we need to try even more than before to see the forest in its various functions, especially as a stabilisation element, but also as an income factor for farmers. To do this, we need increased possibilities for using wood. This ranges from bioenergy use to wood as a building material, but in many areas we also have to go into completely new areas of application in the field of research. In my view, these wooden clusters, which develop, are a very central and important strategic orientation, including defining forestry as a new element in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the concept of rural development policy goes further: It is not only about agriculture, it is also about the need for partners in agriculture. I am therefore committed to an optimal partnership and cooperation with the trade in rural areas. We need the partnership between agriculture and, for example, bakers, butchers. We need the partnership between agriculture and gastronomy. We need the partnership between agriculture and tourism. This cooperation and partnership are the basis for a positive development in agriculture in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, rural areas also need the necessary infrastructure for their development, the necessary facilities for local services, the necessary supply of vital elements for rural people. Ladies and gentlemen! In this "land development", this new concept of integrated rural development, we have to implement the experiences we have already gained with the 5b projects in Austria. These 5b projects can now be applied throughout the rural area. The removal of this horizontal border and the application of integrated development throughout the rural area must be seen as an opportunity to apply this positive experience of project development from the rural regions as a whole. This project development, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the cooperation models I have already mentioned, offers opportunities for agriculture, offers income opportunities for farmers, but above all also offers the opportunity to secure additional jobs in rural regions. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also integrate new issues into this rural development policy. I think, for example, that the application of the new communication technologies, the use of the Internet for the marketing of agricultural products, the marketing of rural products, such as farm holidays, and the possibility of using them in an optimal manner on the farm, should be used by them themselves, because it is a question of converting existing rural disadvantages into benefits that ultimately result in the creation of comparable living conditions for people in rural areas, regardless of whether farmers, tradesmen or workers. Ladies and gentlemen! This rural area is very important for the future of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this rural area there is a lot of creative potential, in this rural area slumbering opportunities for employment. In this rural area, the key elements of sustainable development are identified. I am therefore convinced that, with the best possible application of Agenda 2000 and its second pillar, land development, we can do everything we can to ensure that the country has a future. That's what we're working for, and I'm asking you: Support This new perspective of rural development within the framework of Agenda 2000!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3675	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are uniform for all involved in the debate for 5 minutes. Mr Maderthaner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3702	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the economic point of view, too, I am very glad that Agenda 2000 is being discussed here in the current hour, because the Agenda 2000 has been presented many times as if it were an issue that concerns only agriculture. That is why I am speaking on this issue today, because the outcome of Agenda 2000 is important for the whole of the Austrian economy, but especially for the rural economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are many links between the economy and agriculture, especially in the rural regions. For example, agriculture is one of the most important contractors for many products from the economy, for example in the field of agricultural machinery and equipment used in agriculture. But there is also a good and necessary cooperation in other areas, which we should remove much more than has been the case so far. However, thousands of jobs depend on the utilization of the industrial and commercial enterprises concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, the purchasing power of agricultural holdings in the region depends on the income situation of agriculture. As regards purchasing power, there has been, in a sense, a worrying development for rural regions in recent years. According to a recently published study by RegioPlan Consulting, 300 municipalities do not currently have a local supplier. So there must be about 264,000 people without close-up care. The new line of cooperation is therefore of great importance. [[Abg. Wabl: Who is politically responsible for this?]] We can talk about it, there are developments in the trade chains that have taken great influence in this regard. It is precisely because of this that we need to try more than before to strengthen cooperation between the economy and agriculture in the region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another issue is particularly important in rural regions or border regions: More and more small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of trade and crafts have difficulty finding business successors. It is therefore important to do something about the structures outside the country. Ladies and gentlemen! The price reductions initially proposed by the EU Commission in many areas of agriculture have resulted in massive income losses for agriculture. However, this would also set in motion the negative spirals: less income, less consumption, less investment, fewer jobs in the region and overall in the economy as a whole. That's what we're trying to do. Thanks to the Austrian negotiators, they have insisted that the proposed price reductions are not fully achieved and are also possible by means of new programmes and loop-in schemes. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the relationship between the economy and agriculture in the rural sector, which we have to say clearly, was not always free of frustration, and there will be some problems in the future. But we should look for the common ground, perhaps more easily solving the problems that exist naturally. We have been able to resolve many problems lately. There are essentially the same rules of play in the trade regulations for the same activities. It is particularly beneficial in this context that Agenda 2000 will provide very specific impetus for rural development, for rural development and thus for the economy, for the small and medium-sized economy in these areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Cooperation projects between agriculture and other sectors of the economy are particularly encouraged and supported. It's a new chance. The future of the Austrian site lies in one another – and not in one another, ladies and gentlemen! That's essential! That's what we're doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the side of the economy, we understand ourselves as a driving force. The rural area must live. Agenda 2000 makes this possible. We in the economy will promote this path through targeted cooperation in the districts, in the regions and through the region also take up concrete opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3771	The next speaker is Mr Heinz Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3792	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Once again, the Agenda 2000 is the subject of our negotiations here in the National Council. And I mean, that's good. The more we talk about the possibilities and priorities of implementation within the framework of Agenda 2000 for Austria and Austria's agriculture and economy, Mr. Wabl! [[Abg. Wabl: Now we could talk about your mistakes!]] In the last debate on Agenda 2000, I had the opportunity to express my pleasure at the fact that the horizontal regulation on Agenda 2000 provides for the degression of the size, Mrs Petrovic, and thus a long-term demand for social democracy, namely for a fairer distribution of agricultural funding. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about social staggering?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As, ladies and gentlemen, in some areas of agricultural support, it was already possible, together with our coalition partner, to introduce this degression, this social just distribution, I assume that the Agenda Decisions will continue to do so. Today, we are mainly dealing with the part of Agenda 2000, which is very grateful for this title of the present hour, for agriculture and the economy in the rural regions. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also proved that these funds should be available not only to agriculture but indeed to rural areas as a whole. As part of this funding development, not only the farm and its associated fields, forests and meadows can be seen, but also the whole rural area, the network of general economic, living, cultural and environmental areas. Agenda 2000 provides the opportunity to support this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] However, these include the infrastructures of the rural regions, such as transport and, Mr Farnleitner, the further expansion of the S 36 in the Upper Styria, as well as telecommunications opportunities to the Internet. I also agree with Commissioner Franz Fischler, who, on the occasion of the meeting of the Lower Austrian Sheep Breeding Association, particularly highlighted some of the points of Agenda 2000. I would now like to quote some of those of his remarks. Franz Fischler said, among other things – I quote –: In this reformed agricultural policy, we have made it possible for all less favoured areas to continue to promote direct payments in less favoured areas. We are increasing the number of initiatives to be taken in the direction of direct marketing, the initiatives that require investment in marketing and processing, and all the initiatives that will help new marketing ideas to come to life. – End of quote. There are many years of demands from social democracy, and I am pleased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this last point, which I have referred to, in relation to the marketing of new marketing ideas, is taking place against a very up-to-date background in Austria. That's how I take out an APA message from 10. May 1999: Bio-farmers complain of the AMA to protect consumers. – It criticises the current advertising of AMA marketing, which is designed to deceive consumers. In this television advertising, I assume that it is an AMA seal farmer – all that is not available in his yard. I quote from this APA message: "There's no antibiotics and chemistry." – End of quote. However, the legal obligation, but also the control of this freedom of chemicals and other measures, will only be imposed on organic farmers, in accordance with an EU regulation and the Austrian food code, Mr President Schwarzböck! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: ÖPUL is also controlled by AMA!]] This advertising, Mr Schwarzenberger, suggests to consumers that all that is equipped with an AMA seal has been produced biologically. But that's not right, but that's a deception of the consumer. I therefore believe that this opportunity must be used for our small-structured agriculture, for organic farming. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am already at the end of the sentence, Mr President, I believe that we have to make available the marketing contributions that are lifted to the bio-organisations, which can implement their new marketing and advertising strategies and thus also serve the rural regions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3884	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3905	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is indescribable how you are looking to sell from the highest level of ministers price cuts for farmers in the amount of 20, 30 percent as success! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's indescribable how stupid you think the farmers are, because they've been through the game for a long time! Minister! The Agenda 2000, the EU's financial plan by 2006 is now under the umbrella and subject. This agenda, which you have decided, Mr Minister, will cost hundreds of thousands of farmers in the European Union. Farms and families that have survived for centuries, farms that for centuries have given the peasant families work, income and home, you have ruined forever with your decision on Agenda 2000 forever! – and this only and alone to achieve your political goal, namely the enlargement of the East. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is why farmers will lose these incomes! And you know that too, Mr Schwarzenberger. Since accession to the EU, since 1995, the prices of cereals, Mr Maderthaner – and I would like to know if you would like to do so in your area – have fallen to half the selling prices for farmers. The pig and milk price has been halved; the prices of cattle have been reduced by 30 percent. And now with this Agenda 2000 you decide to reduce prices by up to 20 percent! The compensatory payments will by no means compensate for the loss of income! And you know that too, Minister. In 1998, farmers lost billions of income, and now they are being sacrificed to the east. Agenda 2000 will cost jobs not only in Austria but also in the applicant countries. But the truth does not come to the table in Austria. In Brussels, on the other hand, we speak a very clear language, Mr Federal Minister, for example in the Committee on Regional Policy. This decision decided by a large majority to amend the EU's eastern enlargement amendment, which reads as follows: Given the expected releases of agricultural workers, the candidate countries – that is, the candidate countries – should pay particular attention to a special development plan for the creation of alternative employment opportunities in rural areas. - Quote. Already from these wordings in the application becomes quite clear where the trip is going. EU Member of the Mulder said in the Committee on Agriculture, I quote: It must also be taken into account that employment in European agriculture will continue to decline and that in 2005 only 2 per cent of the population will be active in agriculture. - Quote. [[Abg. Madl: We have always celebrated it.]] The farmers in Europe are being sacrificed only in terms of the political objective of enlargement! It will also cost millions of jobs in these Eastern European countries. And who are the winners – you know that too, Minister! – such lower producer prices in agriculture? – Only internationally active corporations! These enter profits at billions, but price reductions in agriculture never pass on to consumers. Otherwise it could not be, Mr Minister, that today a meat cream costs more than a farmer receives for the production of one kilo of pigmeat! Otherwise there wouldn't be such a discrepancy! And exactly such a development path you are now taking with great vehemence! I can tell you, however, that the price reductions for farmers will not be sufficient to finance the enlargement of the East. And that's why you're planning a European tax. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This means that the farmers are ruined – and taxpayers are asked to cash out! But we will certainly not play with the liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e3998	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4019	I now have a small problem, Mr President and Mr Minister: The previous speakers have made really excellent election speeches, only, ladies and gentlemen: We are not here at a election event of the Freemans! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Which party are you in right now, Mr Smolle?]] Mr Haigermoser and Mr Minister, this is also to be said to you, as is Mr Maderthaner: Now, please, this is not an ÖVP event, but it is the Austrian Parliament. So I would ask you to be so kind as to speak on the matter, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations between the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! High house! Minister! Mr President. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In summer is transfer time, and Habsburg still needs people! You can change the party again, Smolle! Smolle and Habsburg, that would be brutality!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The Berlin Agricultural Ministers Summit only knows winners. It is a suspicious matter, ladies and gentlemen, when people come together, negotiate and negotiate, and then all go home as "winners". What does that mean? – That means that nothing has come out. The reform of agricultural policy has not taken place – not in Berlin, not even in this House, even in Austria! It was just about rewriting old numbers, old positions. I would like to quote a newspaper that is not quite distant from you, namely the "Frankfurter Allgemeine", in which it was clearly stated in an article that the "reform agreements" – under quotations – of the Berlin EU summit had been unexplained, were unclearly formulated. It would have been necessary and possible for the Agriculture Ministers to have improved. The quota arrangements have been postponed until after 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, it all stayed with the old! The only question is how long this will continue for European taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. We are positive about the development of rural areas and their promotion, but the integrated approaches are missing. It would be useful to establish spatial planning competence in Austria at the federal level, but we have already talked about it in the committee. In any case, Minister Molterer has prevented necessary and far-reaching reforms in the negotiations on Agenda 2000 in the circle of the European Economic Ministers – that is the central statement – but at least for years shifted, which was postponed to the period after 2006, as it is said, or then 2008. The conservative political holdings remain secure and the structures remain as they are. Therefore, the questions: How long is the European and Austrian taxpayer ready to bear these excessive costs of agriculture? How long is the European consumer ready to bear these costs? Agriculture will continue to be expensive to the European and thus also to the Austrian – in the double sense of the word. Prices for agricultural products are artificially high and the cost of means of production remains high. European agriculture is not stimulated by the policy of these ministers of agriculture to reform, but rather to continue with existing policy positions. Ladies and gentlemen! Only real economic jobs, economically sound, sustainable jobs are the future in agriculture. It is necessary to create viable, economically strong farms. This should be the objective of both European and Austrian agricultural policy! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We need larger farm units, and we need mostly full farmers, ladies and gentlemen! Only full farmers can ultimately guarantee jobs. A mere rewriting of the former non-reforms is not a goal, especially not a goal of liberal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4108	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4129	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Molterer says from the government bank that Austrian policy is still a policy of across-the-board agriculture, a policy of sustainable agriculture, a policy of functional agriculture and a policy of competitive agriculture, he fully supports the Greens. [[Abg. Friend: This is what the Minister of Agriculture is right about!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Molterer in Brussels gives up on competitiveness, although there can be no competitiveness, then we cannot support him in such a policy. Austria's agriculture has environmental and social standards that are not achieved in many areas of Europe – and not even on the world market! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Agriculture says that it is necessary to operate a transport development of the rural regions. – Since 1945, please, this programme has been running! Does the Minister of Agriculture perhaps mean the motorway construction project of Mr Farnleitner, who is sitting next to him here today, in the Ennstal?- Oh, my God! A new motorway through ecologically managed territory?- Oh, my God! If the Minister for Agriculture thinks that Mr Farnleitner's new motorway concept is, of course, not a support from the Greens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This only serves the building cartel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Minister of Agriculture thinks that ÖPUL is an important state of Austrian agriculture, he is right in doing so, and we have always supported him in such efforts, even against the Social Democrats. However, if an evaluation is not carried out, or is not sufficiently carried out, if actual ecological elements are examined, and if such a review is not carried out in terms of social tolerance and social staggering, which is something for which social democracy has broken down a coalition, then we cannot support the Minister of Agriculture, for it will reveal the important concerns of farmers, especially small and medium-sized farms, who, as you have rightly said, guarantee 600 000 jobs. And you could create even more jobs in many other areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing investments in rural areas today, we should also take a very concrete look at what is happening in rural areas, in particular in specific areas. There is now an ambitious programme related to canalization in sparsely populated areas. Austria's municipal credit has drawn up the forecast that about 186 billion schilling will be invested in this area. There are approximately 1 million people living in this area, and there are mainly farmers there. And there is the use of funds, the funding, the tax money is used in such a way that the agricultural population does not, in essence, benefit from it, not from what is envisaged in the Water Law Act, namely the protection of the waters, but mainly for the financing of the building cartels, mainly for the financing of the banks and, above all, for the preservation of the techno-bureaucracy, which seeks to drive the rural population into despatch and thus hinders the self-help and partly impossibility of the formation of cooperatives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] High house! To date, the Minister for Agriculture has not completed his regulatory competence on essential issues in this area. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, nine years have passed, and the Minister has still not exhausted his powers of regulation to connect precisely those tendencies that would be so important in rural areas, namely the self-help to promote the self-cleaning power of the soil – and not any miners with large concrete tunnels, which costs millions of dollars to make them impoverish. That is what you are always talking about: regional development. But it happens exactly the opposite! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the miners in particular, huge phenomena of existence and impoverishment are identified by those measures promoted by the Minister for the Environment under the title "Environmental Policy". The Minister of Economic Affairs will, of course, be pleased, and that is why Mr Maderthaner has spoken here today. Again: Basically, what was originally intentioned, namely to help farmers, the rural population, goes exactly the opposite, and there is still a "redistribution" from bottom to top. And we can't agree with that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4215	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4236	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Impulses for rural areas, impulses for employment in rural areas have been a solid foundation since the agreement of the Berlin Summit and the decisions of the Council of Agriculture Ministers on detailed implementations of Agenda 2000 last Monday, and it is now up to us to use this predictable basis for the next seven years, until the end of 2006. If this happens, this is indeed a lot of impetus for rural areas and employment in rural areas. The Agenda 2000 offers a number of instruments. In the field of market regulation policy, of course, it will depend very much on how further impetus can be achieved in connection with the beginning WTO negotiations, negotiations that will start at the end of this year with the next round. In any case, we assume that the outcome of Agenda 2000 will be a presumption in the agricultural policy field of this next WTO round. In this respect, the hormone dispute that has now been held between the European Union and the United States of America is also a major development towards self-confidence in European policy, a policy in which our position is to be represented accordingly. If we were to lose this battle, we would only have a considerable battle of defense in the important production sector of cattle industry – in addition to trying to set new impulses – in order to keep the previously achieved. Therefore, Mr Gradwelt, I do not understand your claim that the AMA beef advertising for Austrian beef with the AMA seal would be against the interests of organic farmers at all. Antibiotic freedom and growth promotion hormone freedom is only one of the requirements in the bio code. Anyone who opts for organic farming should actually be interested in the fact that, in addition to those farmers who do not see themselves able to operate according to the bio-codex – for example, for beef there is not, for example, the full production volume of organic farming, the corresponding price increases – at least parts of the organic code are also met by those who cannot or cannot yet prescribe these high requirements due to the development of the market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that, especially in the field of rural development, the necessary development of the intensive partnership between agriculture, industry, trade and industry has far better conditions than was the case in the past. Especially in the decentralised areas, we suffer enormously from the trend of concentration, particularly in the area of trade. There are the small-structured areas of the food industry, especially in the commercial sector – butchers, bakers, to name just a few – the congenial partners for small-structured farmers, because, as the division of labour arrives, the small business can focus on what it can best for what it has the best conditions. And both can benefit from such a division of work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The intensive discussion in connection with the preparation and negotiation of Agenda 2000 on further environmental requirements is already pre-emptive in Austria, as it were, through the model development of the ÖPUL programme, the Austrian Environmental Agriculture Programme. Together we must do everything we can to ensure that what Minister Molterer has now submitted under the title "ÖPUL 2000" in Brussels is implemented as quickly as possible, so that those farmers who already work in the fifth year of this programme can also look to predictable future expectations. The next point with regard to which these impulses in rural areas can be expected in partnership between the economy and agriculture particularly favourable development opportunities for Austria and for the Austrian economy is the use of biomass, and since, above all, the use of the large research reserves for primary energy use in connection with heat generation and the technological development of wood hack cuttings up to pellets, so that even in single households with no infrastructure – logistics, machinery, transport equipment – can be hacked and processed with the same comfort as fossil energy use – oil or gas – with wood pellets. This should be possible at a comparable cost, giving a huge additional chance of selling wood or wood by-products. [[Abg. Wabl: And why was there no money for this in the course of the tax reform? Why has an ecological tax reform been avoided?]] Especially in conjunction with the direct economic interest, the enormous opportunity to highlight in Austrian plant construction is to be highlighted. In addition to the Scandinavian countries, Austria is one of those countries which are very far-reaching in particular in this technological development. I am also pleased that research funds are now being invested, particularly in connection with the ElWOG, in order to develop biomass electricity in line with existing cogeneration plants, in order to be able to deliver pioneering services for European development.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4300	Mr Farnleitner has spoken on behalf of the Federal Minister. Same time of speech. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4321	Mr President. High house! Some comments on the present programme from the point of view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, initially from an EU-political point of view. Last Monday, there was an informal meeting of the Ministers for Trade of the European Union in preparation for the next WTO round. We have made it clear on these questions that Agenda 2000 is a Treaty of the European Union with its farmers and that it will therefore be the basis for the next round of the WTO and it cannot be a way of negotiating. [[Abg. Aumayr: The destruction of European farmers is it, Minister! The destruction, not a contract!]] That is why we are very pleased with this determination, because the demand of the CAIRNS Group, particularly the liberal countries, is to reduce agricultural prices to an extent which would indicate a terrible scenario which we would not even dream of here. The first point is therefore that Agenda 2000 has set a positive line, a European line for the next WTO round. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: 20 percent aren't enough for you, Mr. Minister? Less than 20 percent aren't enough for you?]] Second point: There is a need for action in the European internal market in various Councils. We see that Austria's agriculture is still disadvantaged by the fact that we do not yet have a single market principle of mutual recognition in the case of farm resources and are thus reduced by many more favourable means. That's to be changed in the next time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to agriculture, I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Molterer, who highlighted the great potential of forestry. [[Abg. Wabl: This is the ecological tax reform!]] I can say from my ministry that we have first laid the basis for a wooden cluster, which has developed around the Styria, within the framework of several events. Secondly, we have launched the construction of two industrial competence centres for biomass use – biomass use in the form of gas is happening in Güssing, biomass is being exploited for electricity generation in Wiener Neustadt – and these initiatives are being rapidly continued. In addition, in my department, we are working out a pattern construction arrangement for the use of wood in the field of construction regulations, which will once eliminate the anti-wood in Austrian construction regulations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have already implemented a change of the so-called "Ö" standard 38002, so that wood can be fully used in Austria. There are even efforts to allow wood across borders as a building material for multi-storey – up to three-storey – buildings. A model is already in implementation in Styria. Another point: In two working groups, we started the implementation of the decisions of the Federal Government on the adoption of the Biodiesel Decisions. There will also be a need for some EU adjustments in order to implement this. [[Abg. Aumayr: This serves only the interests of the gas lobby in Upper Austria!]] Let me add one more comment on the role of agriculture, especially in a year in which we have extremely favourable tourism perspectives. Tourism is very pleased that two things work in agriculture: Agriculture in Austria, as it were, provides a cultural landscape, as hardly any other country in the world has. First point. Second point: With the increasing product and quality orientation of agriculture – I am thinking of the sales rail industry and the farmer – we create new market opportunities that enable agriculture to survive under the new conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4434	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4458	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, it is considered positive that Agenda 2000 is being discussed in the light of the need to provide impetus for agriculture and the economy in rural areas. [[Abg. Meisinger: The Gas Lobby...!]] It is positive that it is recognised that the economic sectors should not be considered separately. [[Abg. Aumayr: In Upper Austria you are working for the gas pipelines!]] An essential and positive approach is this concession, which can be seen that the rural area can never be "global player" in the field of food production. The future of agriculture is certainly not about quantity production, especially in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is positive that, within Agenda 2000, it will be found that mining promotion can be made more flexible. I therefore clearly underline at this point the demand for the introduction of base amounts. It is positive that there has been a fall in investment aid in the case of discrimination against auxiliary farmers. We must not forget that two thirds of the Austrian farmers are working side-by-side. As we are now discussing the opportunities for rural development in this debate, this must mean for all of us that agricultural market policy and structural policy must be embedded in an integrated regional policy. When we talk about development opportunities, we also need to position ourselves clearly in terms of safeguarding farmers' incomes: There is a need for funding, for greater targetivity, i.e. social justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, as has been repeatedly pointed out in previous debates and stressed by both Members of Parliament and by the Minister, there must be many combinations of work among farmers. It must not be so in the future that one sees one's income on its own focused on a product. However, I also believe that we are all called for in this area to improve the dialogue between farmers, consumers and the administrative authorities. Only a working dialogue creates understanding and merges. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We need to show more courage for new solutions, and at the same time we should be less committed to obsolete and partially wrong funding models. For the following must apply to all of us, ladies and gentlemen: The future cannot be designed with thought-schemata of the past.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4542	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4563	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Molterer, your statement here in the House has sounded as if you were on the opposition bank and would now present what you would do if you came to the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He's a visionary!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Minister Molterer! They have only announced what is to happen in rural areas, how dialogue between farmers and farmers is to work. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: He works!]] That's what you've been telling us here for ten years! You are not at the opposition bank, Mr Federal Minister, but you have been responsible for the maladministration of agriculture for 13 years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! I would have expected a different explanation from you, namely a statement that gives information on what you want to do about the death of the small and medium-sized structure in the economy, which is what the tax reform is about, and whether you want to finally get to the point of promoting the equity of companies. In this respect, you should have been defending yourself in the tax reform debate. The tax reform has shown that a total of 1.5 billion schilling benefit entrepreneurs. However, this equity advantage is a peculiar embarrassment, which can be seen, for example, in the following example: When adding a profit of 500 000 S to equity, there is a tax advantage of 2,500 p. – That is what you really want to consider as a "favoritation" for equity? Take a look at what Mr Landesrat Leitl in Upper Austria asked for: It called for the non-taxation of the unabsorbed profit in order to boost investment. This would have been the same model as the flat-tax model of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a result, investments would have been favoured by a depreciation possibility of 100 percent in the year of purchase. That would have been an approach. But what you have formulated in the tax reform debate as a favour of equity is more than embarrassing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of these 30 billion schillings, so to speak, capital for tax reform – you know that very well – 12 billion schillings were granted by the decision of the Constitutional Court, and 17 billion schillings have been incorporated into a tariff adjustment. You just returned the cold progression – and not anymore. It's been a lot longer for the citizens! Last year alone, from 1997 to 1998, tax revenue has increased by 30 billion schilling. They only give back the increase for a tax year, but the population has dropped by 150 billion schilling! In the last two and a half years, the Austrians have paid more taxes by 150 billion Schilling in order to achieve the convergence criteria. Then it has been said that the convergence criteria have been reached, all countries now have a deficit of less than 3 percent of gross domestic product, the government debt is going down everywhere. But then the phenomenon occurs that you say in Agenda 2000, there are still countries which are already among the euro area countries, but which are still cohesion countries. That is Spain, Portugal and Ireland, for example. – Austria is trying to achieve the convergence criteria by imposing a burden on the Austrian people of 150 billion schilling – but then you agree from the Federal Government that these cohesion countries, already in the common monetary union, will receive 246 billion schilling! In Austria, the tax reform is a ridiculous 30 billion schillings, and once again you agree that the cohesion countries, which are already among the countries that are moving to the euro-currency, will receive 246 billion schillings! – You have to explain this to the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! That's not the end. There is now a strange discussion about the "European tax". There comes Mr Bösch from the Social Democrats and says that the "European tax" is a good idea. Mr Bundeskanzler Klima says that the European tax is a good idea. Mr Martin says that we do not need the European tax, but I do not want to have anything to do with the SPÖ. – This is just as happening to me as if Mrs. Stenzel always says, when it becomes critical in a debate: I'm not at the ÖVP, I'm just a top candidate. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meisinger.]] In this delicate question, you may have to ask Mr. Partyobmann. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These games don't go into the population anymore. You've already been caught! You can't present two top candidates who don't want to have anything to do with the party. [[Abg. Böhacker: What I don't wonder!]] You can already present it, but that is what I am looking at in the political debate or at the voter. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In this discussion on the "European tax" to carry out this new, additional own resources financing for Agenda 2000, you will still have a very hard discussion with us. We will first ensure that the Austrians receive a fair tax reform – and only then will the others be looked at.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4689	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4710	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda 2000 has really been an exciting chapter of European policy. The negotiations were therefore triggered because it was necessary to find a financial framework for the years 2000 to 2006, one which, on the one hand, very much meets the needs of those concerned, not only farmers, but also meets the needs of the European Union in terms of enlargement of the European Union. One has come to a conclusion that one has to critically light up. On the one hand, it has been very important to find means to enable the enlargement of the European Union at all. These funds for enlargement account for about 6 percent of the budget for the years up to 2006 – which is 640 billion euros – and 45 billion euros. If we look at this, we can say that enlargement is actually a step towards peace policy, towards improving the community of life within the European States, which costs very little. On the other hand, however, one was not very ambitious. If we consider that in the agricultural sector the problem of the reform of milk production has been postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, we can see, I think, that this project has been very unambitated. In 2007, it will be even more difficult to resolve this area than is already the case now, without the enlargement steps that will hopefully come in the next few years and will not be postponed – just as some parties in this House would like to demand – to the years after 2007 and later. I think we have taken a good step towards ensuring what we need. We must not forget that by opening up the Eastern European countries we have been able to see an increase in our exports, which is considerable. Meanwhile, we have a position in Europe, which is remarkable: Austria has 2% of the population of Europe and accounts for 8 percent of exports to Eastern European countries. That means that we benefit. 60 000 jobs are currently being secured by the intensive trade that we are doing with the Eastern European countries. That is why, I believe, it will also be the case that EU enlargement will bring us additional jobs. According to Wifo, the additional jobs that Austria will obtain are to be estimated at at least 27 500. The price level would fall by 1 per cent in an enlarged European Union; the government's re-indebtedness would fall by 0.4 per cent of GDP. These values have been determined by the Economic Research Institute in a simulation calculation – and not by the Liberal Forum, as you might mistakenly suspect. This means that we Austrians could be the absolute winners of an Eastern European enlargement if we are ambitious. I believe that, in view of this, the Federal Government is called upon to take appropriate action. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that dead borders do not benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, but only open borders. I believe that, in order to secure social standards in the EU countries, we will need immigration anyway. I believe that it would be very good for the Eastern European countries to be forced to adopt our social standards and our environmental standards. Only then can we say that we have really achieved a lot, and it now gives us a much better negotiating position than simply to say that an Easter enlargement for us is not at present in question. We have to force her. Austria would benefit most. Agenda 2000 has been successful in a small area, not in large areas: In terms of transnational networks, there is not enough money left – and I am going to conclude, Mr President – in terms of research policy there is not enough money left, and the social measures that should actually be put in place by the European Union are simply dripping instead of flowing. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4772	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4793	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! We are now discussing the Agenda 2000 again and again, without, for your part, presenting the threatening disadvantages to the Austrian farmers, once again without mercy and openness. They are relying on the opportunities to present the potential opportunities. They are talking about the second pillar, about the development of rural areas. I must say that to a certain degree is a "no-na!"-statement, because, of course, farmers are open to any possibility of opening up other sources of income. But how realistic this is, in view of the burden that agriculture has in any case, I leave your assessment. I don't think you can always tell the farmers: Please see that you're renting rooms somewhere! - or this and that. – It is certainly not on the streets if many Austrian farms are not doing well. The real objective of farmers being able to live from agriculture is to disappear more and more and more, and that is to admit it indirectly. But that's the drama! Ladies and gentlemen! But you also do a lot of things from the framework, which will certainly harm Austrian farms, especially small and medium-sized farms. If the Austrian animal transport law de facto falls or is at risk... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We warned you!]] – You have always fought and chased it from the very beginning! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: What's the subject matter?- Oh, my God!]] It's no wonder. If our own ministers in Brussels do not argue for this, who should then argue for it?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is an injunction!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We fought!]] That's not an injunction! You could already read this in the agricultural newspapers back then! Whoever benefits from it is quite clear: the North German and the Dutch agricultural factories. In Austrian agriculture, jobs will cost, and the Austrian Federal Government unfortunately has a large share of them! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or: I think we have had an Austrian agricultural commissioner for a long time. There were early marketing premiums, early processing premiums, live animal export premiums. – I never heard that the ÖVP had fought all this vehement. You just said: We have to have that, because if we don't export, then another exports. But that this system only supports the great, you know as well as I do. You have also given up the small farms. Further framework condition: the whole canal madness; my colleague Andreas Wabl has already mentioned this. On the contrary, this area is about 200 billion schilling, which is literally "scattered" which does not benefit farmers: They are burdened with huge charges, although we know that the technical solutions for biological, decentralized treatment plants are absolutely mature. Why Make You don't? Why do you create Is it not possible for you to do so? This is at the expense of the Austrian farmers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third area in which you do not improve the framework conditions for Austrian farms: energy production. You know just as well as I do that we have a huge deficit, with regard to feed-in tariffs, as far as equal opportunities are concerned in the supply of energy by farms. There are great opportunities for the biomass, for the hacks; all of this has already been addressed. Why don't farmers get a fair price when they deliver it? Isn't that up to you, too, Minister of Economic Affairs? Why didn't you act there if you'd like to build streets on the other side? To the address of the Socialist Group: Mr Gradwelt has just continued to talk about it in intermediate calls for social segregation. Where is she, the social squad? – It has been completely dropped! The big ones get the lion share in the promotion, and the little ones get a bet! I call this unfair, and I cannot understand that Austrian social democracy has simply given up the small farmers. I am not talking about the lack of an eco- and social stand in Europe at all! I mean, this AMA complaint is just the tip of the iceberg. I admit that it is still relatively good in Austria. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I hold fast – and come to my conclusion: They promised the peasants blue from heaven in 1994, and after that there was an evil awakening for the farmers. Now you promise them the world market orientation – and the awakening will probably get even worse!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4916	No one is reporting on this. With this I finish the current hour and thank the two Federal Ministers. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e4940	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to § 23 para. 4 GOG to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Statement by the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection and the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family on the topic of Temelin nuclear power station
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5154	Mrs Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection Mag. Prammer as well as Mr. Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Bartenstein have informed me of their wish to make a statement on the topic of nuclear power plant Temelin. According to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I intend to call on these statements after the end of the debate on the foreign policy report, but at the latest at 1.30 p.m. Is there any objection to this procedure agreed with the political groups? This is not the case. Then I'll do that. I also wanted to have a debate on these two statements. This debate will take place immediately following the two declarations. Request for a brief debate on the replies to the questions 5609/A and 5586/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5185	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on Question No 5609/AB on Question No 5912/J by Mrs Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: This short debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than at 3 p.m. I also say that there is another request made in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, namely another brief debate on Question Time 5586/AB on Question No 5940/J by Mrs Mag. To stop Stoisits and comrades with regard to suicide, suicide attempts and self-harms in charge by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This short debate will take place following the short debate which has just been announced from 3 p.m. on a request from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5218	I would also like to say that Mr Dr Kier has asked the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 1027/A (E) by Mr Schmidt and Mr Comrades on the Federal Chancellor's report to the National Council on respect for human rights in Austria for a period of time up to 16. In June 1999, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In this context, there is the request made by five Members to hold a short debate on this request for a deadline. This short debate will take place following the debates in connection with the two replies to the questions. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place immediately after the end of the debate on the request for a deadline. Before entering the agenda, I would also like to inform the Committee on Internal Affairs of Mr Dr Kier's request to report to Mr Hans Helmut Moser and Mr Genossen's motion for a resolution on the social situation and working conditions within the Austrian executive. In June 1999, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure without debate after the end of the negotiations of today's sitting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5257	On the agenda for today's sitting, I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 5, 6 to 8, 10 to 12, 13 to 26, 27 to 30, 31 and 32, as well as 33 to 37 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5285	In the presidential session, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: The debate on the two statements made by the Federal Minister for Women and the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family is expected to take place on 1 "Vienna hour". This results in the following speaking times: 15 minutes for the SPÖ, 14 minutes for the ÖVP, 13 minutes for the liberals, and 9 minutes each for the Liberal Forum and the Greens. The statements of the two Federal Ministers themselves should not exceed a duration of 10 minutes. If this speaking time of 10 minutes was exceeded, then the speaking time over 10 minutes would be counted on each of the affected groups, i.e. in concrete terms, deducted. For the negotiating items on the agenda, a day-block address time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times for the agenda arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. This proposal is to be found in the House. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. It is then decided unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Foreign Policy Report (III-192 of Supplements) 1998 of the Federal Government (1816 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5322	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. This did not include reporting. We are now going into the deliberations. Mr Scheibner spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5352	Mr President. There is currently no government representative on the government bank, nor is the Foreign Minister. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to interrupt the sitting briefly until the Minister has taken his place on the Government Bank.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5385	Well, that won't be a dispute. We are waiting a few seconds and will then enter the foreign policy debate. I'm interrupting the meeting for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5412	I will resume the interrupted meeting and welcome the Minister of State. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel takes place at the government bank.]] Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5449	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today a foreign policy report, which is very comprehensive, quite informative and nice to read. There are more than 100 pages in the annex alone, in which, as in a lexicon, a report is presented on the various countries of the world. It's all wonderful, Mr. Foreign Minister: This foreign policy report does not provide a realistic reflection of the Federal Government's foreign policy. In fact, it is very difficult to maintain what this foreign policy of the Federal Government looks like or by whom this foreign policy is carried. For there is once the foreign policy of Mr. Foreign Minister – yours, Minister Schüssel – then there is the foreign policy of Mr. Federal Chancellor – or at least that German Chancellor's climate that appears abroad – and then there is a third foreign policy, namely that of German Chancellor climate, which he represents in the country. And these three foreign policies do not fit in at all, Mr Foreign Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps you can explain to us in your comments: What is now the foreign policy of the Austrian Federal Government? Is it not, rather, that you have actually given up the national consensus in foreign policy which has shaped this country for decades, with which you have tried not only to drive a single line within the Federal Government in the foreign policy of this country, but also to extend this consensus to the most important groups, even to the opposition of that country? – But you don’t create that consensus anymore. They do not even create the agreement within the Federal Government. Unfortunately, we have to do with the fact that, at such an important time, Austria's foreign policy is being downgraded to playball in the power struggle of the government parties. It is disputed who will occupy the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after the next elections. That is to say, before the voter has decided how the power ratio here in this House, in this country, will turn out, you will discuss whether the SPÖ or the ÖVP will take over the foreign sector. They cannot agree on ambassador orders either, and therefore not because the question is whether Commissioner Fischler – who was also strongly criticised for his work within the European Union – can again take up his office and whether other important positions in Brussels should be given on the other side of the SPÖ. We must therefore note that more than 20 ambassador posts throughout Europe cannot be re-occupied. Foreign Minister! This is not the active foreign policy you are always talking about and which we would also demand from you as Foreign Minister of that Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also ask you to follow a principle: that the meaning and objective of an active foreign policy should also be the representation of Austrian interests abroad and, above all, the purpose of an active foreign policy. You also neglect that in the most grotesque way. This is even reflected in this report, from the foreword. If, for example, you praise this report – on the question of our position in the European Union – that it has been an important objective of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union to advance enlargement of the EU, and that you have apparently overcome strong resistance to other Member States of the European Union, I must say: This "success" you celebrate here was an absolute Pyrrhus victory for Austria and for the Austrian population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrians, the Austrian taxpayers, will in future have to pay the token for this alleged success that you are celebrating here! You know very well – this also proves the double-soilness: Foreignly and in this report, you are celebrating progress in EU enlargement, the start of accession negotiations, but in the country you seem – but really only seem – to be on the brake. For example, when Mr. Trade Union President Vergestnich – I really say: right! – here presents a study by the ÖGB, in which one has examined the time-limit of accessions, then one comes to see that Slovenia will reach the necessary criteria for inclusion in the European Union at the earliest in 2017 and Poland, colleague Smolle, only in 2045! – These are the facts that we should discuss here – and not that you want to follow a utopia of the Brussels centralists and implement EU enlargement as soon as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it would also be interesting to bring other perspectives into Europe's policy. What about more federalism within the framework of the European Union? What about the fight against fraud and the Austrian government's contribution in this case? What about the demand to get away from this Europe of centralists, which is not at all based on a common awareness of the Austrians and the other citizens of the EU Member States? That would be interesting projects! One should move away from this European single state and towards a Europe of the father countries in which the national states themselves define what is to be organised together and what all should remain in the competence of the national states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The fact that this also creates a European awareness would be the best condition for a common, a peaceful and some future Europe! This would be better than simply perceiving everything that is specified by the Brussels bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have seen in two important areas – one we will discuss today – how little willingness exists from the Austrian Federal Government to represent Austrian interests. On the one hand, there is the example of the Temelin nuclear power plant. Now, after this decision by the Czech Government to build this power plant, there are suddenly again marked sayings. What has been done in recent years, Mr. Foreign Minister? – It was your EIA MEPs in the European Parliament that prevented a clear resolution by the European Parliament against nuclear power in the Eastern European countries. It was a very close vote. If your MEPs had voted in favour of this resolution, it would have been decided, and it would have been a clear signal against those states that are not willing to get out of this unsafe nuclear energy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or, Mr Foreign Minister, a second point, the question of the displaced, the question of how much Austria is prepared to represent a generation of people who were expelled from their home 50 years ago – in this expulsion was tortured and murdered; there were 3 million displaced and 250 000 dead – at least the last survivors of this generation. You know, we have repeatedly asked you – in resolutions, in resolutions – to put pressure on the Czech Government and also on the Slovenian government to remove the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions that have been the legal basis for this murder, for these expulsions to our compatriots. . But you were not willing to agree to these resolutions, Mr Foreign Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have now shamed the European Parliament by adopting such a resolution. I believe that it is in the responsibility of this Austrian National Council to finally speak with one voice and express it quite clearly: A country which is still not prepared to remove such humane provisions from its legal system does not have the right to be included in the democratic community of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And Austria has the opportunity to exert pressure with its veto. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Foreign Minister and also ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! I would really like you to see Austria's interests in international security and foreign policy discussions in the foreground. I do not think anything about it – and it is precisely a group that has written the fight for human rights on its flags – that in an EU election the security of Austria is now being made in a way that is unworthy of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! They deliberately try to instrumentalise the fear of the Austrians from war, from expulsion and from uncertainty about this campaign. Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima represents measures abroad that he fights in the domestic himself. He represents a neutrality here in Austria, which he himself has given up as Federal Chancellor with the accession of Austria to the European Union. He represents measures in foreign countries that he fights in Austria at your party events – supposedly – only because it fits into the electoral campaign concept of social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! Here too, we should find a clear word: There must be objective information, a clear position in foreign policy – but not an abuse of these important issues for electoral maneuvers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5617	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Scheibner has read, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5641	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today a foreign policy report, which presents itself in a new dress, with a very appealing cover, with a very informative content and also a very useful presentation of a country information that is very useful for every foreign politician. [[Abg. May. Peter: Rejoice!]] In my view, therefore, this foreign policy report is a very good result of a 1998 presentation, which has been an exceptional year of foreign policy for Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to thank the Head of Division for this, but, of course, especially his colleagues who have drawn up this report, Mrs Kehrer and the two gentlemen who have worked on it very much, and also congratulate them on this type of report and, on behalf of my group, also on the recognition of this work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The year 1998 with the Presidency of Austria was a year of profiling in the European Union and also a year of success for Austria's foreign policy. I am thinking, for example, of the final decisions on the euro, of the preparation of Agenda 2000. I also recall the political breakthrough in the Treaty between the European Union and Switzerland, the initiatives to protect children and the establishment of an EU Special Representative, an Austrian, for Kosovo following the recognition of this conflict. This is also a result – ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this in recognition of all the members of the government – a closed Austrian government, in which every fellow player played his part excellently and thus contributed to this reputation of Austria in the European Union and worldwide. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is therefore all the more incomprehensible to me, therefore, when only four months later, after finding a common line of Austria within the framework of the European Union, a completely new situation seems to arise. Today I am again reading the criticism of Mr Swoboda, who is in the direction, we actually need... – I know that he is far from unknown, ladies and gentlemen, but he is a SPÖ candidate for the European elections, and he criticises Austria in the direction that we should center neutrality in the Kosovo conflict. [[Call the ÖVP: Who is Mr Swoboda? Who's Mr. Swoboda?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can answer him with the words of Chancellor Viktor Klima. ==References== April 1999 climate at the NATO Summit in Washington said: I believe it is important that Milošević cannot expect to split the community of states and thus continue his work of atrocities. - Quote. The right answer to Swoboda's criticism. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is only the one side of the Viktor climate, that side that speaks abroad. I should like to say, yes, that the Burgenian candidate for the European Parliament, who is in second place on the SPÖ list, is a lady named Prets, presented to the public with the wish that the Neutrals in Europe should find an alliance. Ladies and gentlemen! Only the thought that Neutrals should find an "Allianz" speaks for themselves, and the understanding of a new candidate may have to be apologised because she has no idea of neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An unneeded lady! An unnecessary spirit!]] But I can answer her with an up-to-date quote from today's press so that she knows what other neutral countries say about it. Finland's head of government Lipponnen, a Social Democratic, says: We are no longer neutral, but Helsinki wants a European security policy. [[Listen! Listen! Call at the ÖVP.]] – A fact that we also have to deal with in Burgenland, the home of Mrs Prets. But, ladies and gentlemen, all of this could be done with the election fight before the 13th. June apologise. One thing cannot be apologised, however, and that is if the Federal Chancellor himself states an foreign policy based on double poverty. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Meisinger.]] ==References== Decision to be taken by the Heads of State or Government in Brussels on April: "The Heads of State and Government of the European Union believe that the use of the most stringent measures, including military action, was necessary and justified" – but the next day in Austria, "Austria, as a neutral state, sees its mission in the field of humanitarian aid and in the search and support of a political solution", that is double-bought – and condemn! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Meisinger.]] On 24/25. Decision to be taken at the Berlin European Council: “We, the countries of the European Union, are morally obliged to ensure that arbitrary action and violence, made tangible by the massacre in Račak in January 1999, must not be repeated. Aggression must not pay off, an aggressor must know that he has to pay a high price, that is the teaching of the 20th century. "th century!" ==References== On the other hand, in the "ZiB 2" on April 1999, we must be neutral in order to take advantage of the full opportunities that a neutral state has at international level, which, ladies and gentlemen, is more than double-handed, which is dangerous for the credibility of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately – we only need to look at the surroundings of Parliament – we need to see how this is happening in concrete practice for the European elections. We see posters on which Viktor Klima, together with Schröder and Blair, advertises for the European elections. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is just a photo assembly anyway!]] Blair is one of those who not only voted in favour of this NATO blow in Kosovo, but also did, and Schröder, as President of the European Council, has the full responsibility to do so. To be pictured with both and to write "jointly for a new Europe" below and to place on the backside that we should preserve neutrality, ladies and gentlemen, is a process which, I believe, cannot be accepted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Real Janus heads: front so and back so!]] We cannot take note in Austria of the fact that a new chapter in foreign policy is written according to the motto "in every place the desired word". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Climate conceals the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a principle of foreign policy, and on the other hand, we are holding back. The direction shown is clear: It is heading towards a European security association. If we take only what we have in mind for the preparation of the next European Council in Cologne, where the German Presidency will present its ideas on how it would like to plan a common European defence and security policy in the next steps, this is a very clear language: Existing institutions of the Western European Union are to be transferred to the EU institutional framework under this plan. EU-led operations using NATO resources and capabilities are being used. And the formal decisions are to be made by the end of 2000, i.e. in a year and a half. . We may already be anxious about the trapezakt of Mr Bundeskanzler, how he will behave in Cologne. Ladies and gentlemen! What we are talking about is to establish a credibility of Austria in foreign and security policy and not to resort to what has already been done in Austria. We all had to experience it, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky. In December 1995, the pensioner wrote a letter to the pensioner, who entered the story under the title "Pensionsliege". – We do not want such a repetition under a new German Chancellor climate, which is the cause of security. We can save ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity of this foreign policy debate to call on the Social Democrats to return to their state-bearing role in foreign policy. And above all, I would also like to ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that in future, according to the motto "a man, a word!" ................................................................................................................................................................ Austria would thank him very much. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5806	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e5828	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A remarkable speech was actually that, I just want to correct a few things that was rather confusingly presented by my previous speaker, I think. The first: Of course, the report is very good and very understandable. He only has many gaps. The only thing I can say about Austrian foreign policy is that there is actually only the color of this foreign policy on the cover of this report. – The colour of this foreign policy is actually no longer available. We once had a dazzling foreign policy. Austria once had a dazzling role to play within Europe, and we once had a consensus on foreign policy issues in this House. – Now, on the other hand, most of the materials, which are actually very important, are out of consensus in this House, and I think that is very bad. Foreign policy serves as a matter of dispute not only between the government parties but even between all the parties of this House. I would like to quote Mr Rohan from today's press release: "We would like foreign policy to be over-participative and not subject to controversy between the parties." We didn't set the beginning! The beginning, the beginnings of which others have set. Why is it possible to come to the Council of Ministers with a list of ambassadors without the ambassadors having been written out at all? – A remarkable process. So it is obvious that party politics in the Federal Government is more important at the level of ambassadors than once to determine who is applying for which posts at all. Remarkable activities are also: How do I exchange a black Commissioner for a red curator – or vice versa? How do I balance the whole game we can now watch in Austria? There is only more to a paralysis of what would be necessary to have a dynamic, creative team in foreign policy that is happy to be used away from any party policy hack? They harm the diplomatic service with what you do, and you harm Austrian foreign policy with what you do. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is remarkable that the Austrian ambassador to Madrid, who should actually retire for over half a year, should not retire among the most obvious arguments. It has been said, Mr Federal Minister, that you have told me that it is necessary to negotiate Agenda 2000 because it has such a good wire to the Spanish royal house. . I must tell you that the Spanish king has not played a role at all in the discussion of Agenda 2000. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I didn't say that either!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mrs. Dr. Gredler! You have no idea!]] That's what you said, I've written it, I can show you. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That must have been a dream of yours!]] I have a good memory, so I know what I'm talking about. Explain to me why this man has not been allowed to retire for over half a year! Is it not true that your State Secretary, Ferrero-Waldner, would like to have this post because she may have to leave the Federal Government? [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No!]] [[Abg. Kiss: It's a gingerbuck!]] If that's the case, say it! Of course, a Secretary of State is a person who is very useful at the ambassador level, I do not want to doubt at all. But don't pretend that young colleagues are not able to dress for this post in Madrid. You have enough people in your home who have the appropriate skills. Put off this party policy at the ambassador level! It hurts everyone, and it doesn't help us at all. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Your world of thoughts is terrifying!]] You of the ÖVP are not the only one, the SPÖ is part of this game. I don't want to hang around the SPÖ at all. In such a matter, they always have two to play. I believe that this is the real failure of the Federal Government. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Apart from this package, which is available at the level of ambassador posts, there are also interesting developments: We are now in the European Union at a stage in which it is very important to take a position on the future defence structure. The question is: What do we really want to achieve? But German Chancellor Klima left us on the 18th. In April, we should not discuss the issue of neutrality. – Now I ask you: What kind of understanding of democracy is this, which the Federal Chancellor has on this question, if he believes that we cannot discuss the issue of neutrality? - That's the first point. Second point: What kind of neutrality did he mean when he contributed to the use of NATO forces in Kosovo in so far as he signed the Council Decision, which considers the use of the most stringent measures, including military action, necessary and justified? I ask you: Is that the ground of neutrality? Or: What neutrality did he mean when he signed that a trade embargo was being committed against Serbia? Again my question to you: Is that the ground of neutrality? I can understand very well if one considers that Mr Milošević should not be held in power under any circumstances, but then one should not pretend to be the neutrality of Austria that was decided in 1955. We're far away! Mr Schieder, because you look at me so thoughtfully! [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] In an article in today's newspaper "The Press" you will be quoted in the following words – perhaps You correct this quote –: "Consequences at the same time But the arbitrators agree that a neutrality policy They are bordered: first by the smallness of the country and second by membership in the EU." Yes, Mr. Schieder! That means that we have to discuss neutrality policy very well – although with delay, because we have been in the EU since 1995 and I believe that this should have been discussed at the same time. Mr. Schieder! Would you please me and talk to Mr Klima about the need to discuss neutrality because of the smallness of this country and its membership in the EU? Maybe you're going to stand up if the opposition parties can't get through. What we need in Europe is a defence structure that allows us to act independently. What we need is an arm of Europe while at the same time suspending the general obligation to do so. What we need is the dissolution of the national armies. There are already keys to this because the Belgian, Dutch and Spanish armies have already melted. You just need to go there. You don't need to pretend there's nothing there at all and as if the Liberals were inventing something new. We want to make a breakthrough of a defence structure in Europe. In this regard, we would like to see alliances and not the refusal of the Federal Chancellor Klima to discuss these things. This is damaging to the reputation of Austria, and this is damaging to the Austrian people because it feels insecure in such a discussion, because the Austrians feel that there is something going on and that we are missing something, but on the other hand they are reflected in the fact that neutrality could very well provide us with the protection it has offered us at the time. I think that this is a refusal of reality, and I believe that you should prevail in this relationship with your own party. I would like to doubt that Austria has achieved success during its EU Presidency, simply because it was a routine presidency. Before the first day of the presidency, Mr Vice-Chanceller Schüssel said the following: We will mainly have the role of transferring the dossiers from the EU Presidency of a large country to the next presidency, namely the German EU Presidency. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: When did I say this literally?]] This is what you said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last June when we discussed the Presidency. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No! Not at all!]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Not at all!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I have an article in my papers in which these words are quoted by you. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schussel: Please!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's not in the record!]] I would like to show you the quote, but should go to the archive for this purpose. But I would like to listen to your words now, but the quote will, of course, follow. I believe that during the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU, we had many possibilities, but we did not see them. For example, the problem of "hormonal meat". I ask you: Why did Austria not, during its EU Presidency, urge the EU Commission to present the results of the scientific studies in December so that an agreed approach would have been possible in January? Why has there not been other negotiations in terms of increasing the number of programmes that appear to be vital to us? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Scientists are not allowed to dictate!]] They're talking about the Fifth Framework Programme. I'll tell you: The Fifth Framework Programme would have obtained a much higher dosage, if Austria had negotiated much harder. We had to meet in the middle – the European Parliament has called for more – in order to enable research in those areas in which we want them, namely in the area of alternative energy. Mr President, I should like to thank You talked about it earlier. A large part would have been eligible for funding through an extension of the budget to 14.5 billion schillings, as the European Parliament has called for. There are mistakes on our part! There are also failures from the Austrian side in terms of nuclear policy. Of course, it is necessary to demand those safety standards that apply in the European Union in Eastern Europe, but we cannot demand that France continue to adhere to its nuclear policy, while on the other hand, countries such as the Czech Republic cannot become members of the EU. Either we demand that all countries withdraw from the peaceful use of nuclear energy – but we also need Germany and France – or we say that the countries of Eastern Europe should be provided with all possible means to avoid the need for nuclear energy at all, and that, if they are still unable to generate enough energy, they should at least be helped by the safety standards. I am very unhappy about the discussion that has been held in this context, namely that EU enlargement is only possible if the nuclear exodus has been defined by these countries. We should take them a lot more on board and look at all the environmental standards. This is, I believe, a greater success than leaving them outside the European Union and pointing their fingers at them just because they have two nuclear power plants. I believe that the debate in this relationship is not going in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! We in Austria have adopted an active European policy and also a global policy where Austria's reputation and activities were once very important. We have not achieved that we can act as intermediaries in the Kosovo conflict. That's what other people have to do now. There are initiatives by the Prime Minister of Italy Massimo D’Alema and the Finnish President, but we have completely approved of this discussion. The only thing we make available is the Hofburg to hold a congress there. That's far too little! There is a lot more sweat from your side, Mr Foreign Minister, in order to regain this position. I would like the consensus on this matter, which once existed in the House, to be restored. I think we can achieve this. It has shown me some Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by having to suffer them, but now I know what I am doing. I believe that in the next legislative period we could very well find ourselves back to this common ground. We have failed in many discussions. Let's create this consensus where we see a need! Initiatives under refugee policy would be a possibility and a request for circumcision which has already been submitted would offer a second possibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6041	This is what Mr Arbitrator has to say. Deputies! I'd like to set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6085	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my view, the real cause of our debate, the foreign policy report, has also been very successful. It has done quite well for him, and I too would like to express my warmest thanks to all those who have worked on it. This report is an important document on Austrian foreign policy last year. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress that, as mentioned in the report, there have been organisational and information policy innovations, such as the very successful coordination of the External Office for the implementation of the Home Page on the Austrian Presidency of the EU Council. She had a lot of access. That's something very positive. I see it as important to extend this to the next few years, including in the information system in the foreign office – I have already mentioned this – so that Members and the public have access to it. However, the real debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not about the written work, namely the foreign policy report, but about the content of foreign policy. It is about foreign policy, the foreign office and matters relating to neutrality and NATO. A priority in the previous debate was the criticism of Mr Spindelegger, who said that the way in which our candidate Swoboda referred to foreign policy and the foreign office was not in order. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Very right!]] Yes! According to this criticism, in which he said that it was not a question of the representative of the one government party dealing with the vice-chanc and Foreign Minister of the other government in a later passage of his speech, Mr Spindelegger found wordings such as that the Federal Chancellor's foreign policy rests on double-landness and that it is dangerous for the credibility of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, that's right!]] Firstly, I would like to condemn Mr Spindelegger's choice of words to the most serious. [[Call the ÖVP: That was right!]] You don't talk like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I will address his allegations. Thirdly, I do not want to give Mr Spindelegger any philosophical but rather a folk wisdom – in view of his first statement and also of his second – to reflect, namely the folk wisdom that is said to the children!; I've been told that too – and that's what you're aware of, namely: What you don’t want you to do, add it to no one else! – Mr Spindelegger, to reflect on your criticism of Mr Swoboda. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer and other representatives of the ÖVP:Swoboda! Swoboda!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Swoboda's comments, which you are constantly saying here, were not only the subject of Mr Spindelegger's criticism, but also the reaction of Mr Foreign Minister, and I must say that, even if he referred to them, it was not of "bad" parents: I do not intend to voluntarily clear the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is the enthusiasm of the SPÖ. ==References====External links== May 1999. – The fine blade, Mr Foreign Minister, is not exactly that either. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But the truth!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is legitimate to think about the party to which a place should belong. [[Abg. Kiss: What else should he say?]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] It is legitimate to think about how a distribution of resources is to take place. It is always easier to demand a place without at the same time saying which one is willing to surrender, because otherwise one has more critics. [[Abg. Kiss: That's it!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You could exchange with the Federal Chancellery!]] We all know that. But that will be decided after the next election. But it can't be that one says: That must be so, and the other says: It must never be like that! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, you can't play it like you see it once as a political question and not the other time. Mr Molterer's report was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. May 1999 told the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – yes, he is! – that he should warn against politicalizing the foreign office, unless the SPÖ wishes to occupy it. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A good man!]] – That means: If it's occupied by the SPÖ, it's a politicization. In the same interview he said: If you want the ÖVP as a government partner, you have to note that there are key political sectors on whose leadership we will insist. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you distribute key posts before the next elections?- Oh, my God!]] It cannot be that it must not be a political will for the one party, but it can be a political will if you are concerned yourself. That is twofold measure, that must not be applied! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This "logic" can't be understood, Mr. Schieder!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's not all that tends to be a comparison, Mr. Cot!]] Mr Kukacka! I don't want to talk to you about "thinking" or saying words now, because I don't want to spend my speaking time on it, but I'll be happy to give you a little further help to intercede, because I know a lot about what you could do better. Coming back to the question of foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen: The question is as follows: Is this debate on the foreign office just one that is being held for electoral reasons, or is there any concrete differences in foreign policy? This question has to be discussed. Of course, there is a lot of commonness and good work in foreign policy. There was also good work during the EU Presidency of Austria. There is a broad consensus with increasing dissonances in some cases, and it is worth talking about these things too, Mr Foreign Minister. First of all, it is the question: How does the office understand? Does it make independent foreign policy? – Of course, that is the responsibility of the foreign sector! – Has it not at the same time taken over a service role for the other EU departments, given membership in the EU? Is it not at the same time something called the Proficenter in modern companies, that is, a department that works for the others whose wishes are best passed on or carried out without altering them in this forwarding itself. And then the question arises whether the foreign office does not overeat itself in taking up these many things, in swallowing these many things, and in passing on these things does not make them feel that it affects them too much. It was not so much about the occupations of the ambassadors that you took the preliminary decision that they did not all write out, not all of them at the same time to the government, but only some of them, and there was something to repeat, which would have happened earlier. [[Abg. Kiss: Let's write out all posts prophylacticly for five years!]] The procedure was the reason for criticism. This is also the case in the matter of neutrality and in the statements on NATO and in some other small things. For many of us, the question is: How does this foreign office and the foreign minister direct the joint line of Austria into the institutions if, in many cases, he himself has a dissenting opinion from this line? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Which line: the line Berlin or the line Vienna?]] Is he really going to do this best if he wants something else himself? Or: Minister of Defense Fassleven says: I believe that the procedure of not allowing the overflights is simply not in accordance with the laws. – He says that, although it is clear that the laws say something else! Of course, for a partner the question is: If there is a mental reservation on some of the things that one has to represent and transmit? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This mental reservation has recently increased in terms of statements and also in some cases, and I think we have to talk about it. These are questions of neutrality, which are questions of EU policy, and that is a sum of small things. We must talk about it because it is not good if the sum of these incidents suddenly creates a situation that leads to a lack of consensus in foreign policy. [[Abg. Young: Suddenly?! There was never a consensus!]] That, Mr President, is really your first task. That's where you need to get involved. We expect that from you, we rightly expect it from you – even in a time of election.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6368	Now comes Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander. With you too, Madam Member, I will set up for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6390	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that a foreign policy debate, held in May 1999, must focus on war in Kosovo, for what has happened in our southern neighboring country for seven weeks, not only is it concerned with all of us, but, of course, also raises a number of security issues, but above all foreign policy issues. At any rate, these seven weeks show that at least one million people have now become refugees. These seven weeks, however, also show that none of the war targets that have been set and justified have been achieved. Neither the removal of Kosovo Albanians nor the return to the negotiating table could be stopped, nor could Milošević or the nationalist forces in Yugoslavia be weakened. At the same time, we experience this over and over again, the United Nations is constantly being pushed into the background until desavowed. So, of course, the question is: What is the aim of these continued attacks? Not wrongfully, the voices of the critics – starting with Mary Robinson and serving beer – go on special missions and report the legitimate doubts about the objectives of these war operations. I do not want to list everything here again, because we have repeatedly discussed it over the last few weeks, but of course it is pressing the question: What can Austria do? What can we do? What would we do now? I would therefore like to make a request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Without conditions?! Without any condition?]] This war in Kosovo is primarily linked to the question: What can be the role of Austrian foreign policy, and what was the role of Austrian foreign policy in these seven weeks or weeks before? I can certainly agree to some criticism that came from my previous speakers by stating that the opinions of the members of the Austrian Federal Government are very different. In principle, these NATO attacks were supported, supported at the various summits, most recently at the meeting of the WEU Councils of Ministers. One shows understanding of this, one says, nothing else remains. So you're in favour of these NATO attacks. The Federal Chancellor has also done this repeatedly, but this does not prevent him from taking part in party events, as last in Graz, for an end to the bombardment. It is obvious that it does not prevent any discussion on the role of neutrality, but also in very different emphasis and with very different personal design. On one occasion, it is Minister of Defense Fassleven in a well-known role, who always insists that we cannot move forward without NATO and WEU in our foreign policy, but at the same time stresses that he does not want to say anything in the course of the election campaign, except that we are a political zero – to quote it again – or those are statements from other politicians. I can also give an answer to the ÖVP series, because if you say Swoboda, I add Stenzel. How do you keep it from the fact that your party obviously wants to give up neutrality, the sooner, the better, but at the same time you have a top candidate for the elections in the European Parliament, which acts as if it had nothing to do with the whole thing that the neutrality does not want to question at all, which does not want to discuss NATO accession, does not want to know anything about it at all? Now, of course, you can say she's party-independent. Yeah, but she's your top candidate, I'll answer that. It represents your policy, and you want to return to the strongest party, as in the last elections to the European Parliament. [[Abg. Kiss: Is that bad? Isn't it normal to want to do this before elections?]] But all of this shows one thing, a very different picture. And that is what I consider to be the worst and the worst in Austrian foreign policy: that you turn it and turn it around, as it suits you, that you withdraw from neutrality once and say that we are neutral, that you can't do anything, and the next time then talk about having to go to NATO, that we support the bombings, that we carry these or those decisions. This zigzag course of the Austrian foreign policy in the last four years is the real thing about this policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Spindelegger – who is not now in the hall – said that the credibility of Austrian foreign policy suffered from the fact that we could not openly and honestly discuss the task of neutrality and also what is now in Cologne. I say to you that the credibility of Austrian foreign policy is particularly affected by the course you have taken in these four years, under the uneven and contradictory course you have taken. But she is also suffering from one, Minister You have taken several initiatives in connection with this war in Kosovo over the last few weeks. [[Abg. Kiss: Under one? We all suffer one!]] They have told us that it will now support the opposition in all areas, in all regions in Exjugoslavia. You have invited Djukanović to Vienna, you have held talks with him, held press conferences, supported the free and independent media. These are all welcome initiatives, although, in one case or another, one must at least ask a question in a differentiated and critical way, namely whether you consider and consider that such initiatives might either trigger the opposite or trigger a dynamic that would speed up a development that might be such or so. Let's take Djukanović. He is someone who has denied the regime Milošević, he is someone who is in opposition to the regime Milošević, he is someone who has been under severe pressure. It may be a real gesture to invite him and make a press conference with him, but I am concerned if I read that he should now be accused of high treason. What I want to say and express is – let me say it – that for four years you have failed to take such steps that you should have done so four years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not true, Mrs. Kammerlander!]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: But please!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: That's not true! That's not right! You're not on the move! You'd better know!]] Four years ago, you should have supported the opposition in ex-Yugoslavia. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Four years ago, you should have supported the free media. Four years ago, you should have made sure that Rugova got the platform that would have been necessary to implement an actual peace policy in ex-Yugoslavia. Now it may be too late. Now perhaps a dynamic has been set in motion, which makes this hardly possible and hardly feasible. You are writing in your foreign policy report that it is an Austrian attempt to strengthen the role of Europe in dealing with this conflict, but I think it is not just a question of strengthening it, but of truly developing its own role. But then I wonder – and this question has also been raised by my previous speakers: What are you doing about the preparations of the German Presidency for the Cologne Summit? There is no longer any point in developing and strengthening a European foreign policy, but it is quite clear that the European foreign policy should be subordinated to a common security and defence policy and that it should be subordinated to NATO's security and defence policy earlier than later. There can therefore be no mention of an independent foreign and security policy in Europe! How about you, as Foreign Minister, or the Federal Chancellor not present today? [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Positive!]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Positive!]] That would interest us. And if you say that you are positive, I can only tell you that this is in stark contradiction with what you want: to develop an independent European foreign policy. The papers speak a clear language. They are in a continuous context with development. Finally, this has been observed at the Washington Summit and is sufficient to prepare for the German Presidency, which is just about one thing: a militarization of foreign policy, away from any civilian means that are possible and given in foreign policy, towards a very clear orientation to a common defence policy with the appropriate military resources, with the corresponding military upgrades, with the appropriate military equipment. – And this is an foreign policy that we can’t carry and carry. A word on Mr Spindelegger's comments. He said that it was dangerous for the security of Austria to refer to neutrality, and he meant that it was a nonsense to speak of an "Allianz" of the Neutrals, that is, to use the word "Alliance". And I'm telling you, the word "Allianz" isn't. What is treacherous is that the word "Alliance" is obviously only more connected with military alliance and is in use and there is no other understanding. But the peace efforts and mediations of recent times have shown how necessary neutral countries are. Or how else do you judge it when Switzerland, when Finland, when Austria is involved in peace negotiations in the Balkans and in ex-Yugoslavia? This shows exactly the urgency of the presence of neutral countries, which shows exactly what role neutrality still has in Europe, especially if it concerns several countries and if these countries can jointly set up and implement initiatives if these countries – whether they want to call alliances or as always – could consider a strategy away from military resources! I find that appropriate, and this ensures Austrian security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, let me say one more word towards SPÖ: It is legitimate, after 13 years, to insist that the Foreign Office has a very important role, not only in Austria, but also, of course, internationally and, above all, in the field of the European Union. That's legitimate, but I'm telling you one thing: What you're saying today is what Swoboda says, what some others say in this context today, that sounds to me like the Wolf would have eaten cream and not otherwise. Their positions in recent years, no matter if NATO was concerned, whether it was the WEU, whether it was the Maastricht Treaty or the Treaty of Amsterdam, were no different from the positions of the ÖVP. To no interpretation, to no millimeter, to no paragraph, to no point else! But these are the preparations, the very clear course in the direction of NATO accession. You have to make it clear to us what you would do differently, since you have given your consent to all of this over the past 13 years or over the past four years.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6581	The two motions for resolutions, Mrs Magistrate. Chamberlanders have submitted sufficient support and are included in the negotiations. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e6605	Mr President. High house! The discussion is about the 1998 foreign policy report and thus certainly a report on one of the most exciting periods of Austrian foreign policy after the war. Some speakers – I have found the contributions to the discussion very interesting because they have been open and because some corners and edges have become felt that one should discuss – have been called for an active foreign policy. But then I believe that at least one should make the effort to read the facts in the foreign policy report. The year 1998 was the most active year of Austrian foreign policy since 1945. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] May I just do it because it's interesting: I made 133 visits or receptions with Presidents of the Council myself, with 75 Foreign Ministers in it. I myself have completed 57 visits abroad, and Austria has organised 50 international conferences. So active foreign policy, just as they actually called for all the speakers in this House. I would therefore like to thank you for this support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A second one: I would also like to say very openly, Mrs Gredler: "Shining" foreign policy is not my business. I would rather be a clear, predictable, acceptable foreign policy, in which the same is said everywhere: abroad as in the domestic world, to the coalition partner, to the opposition. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: This is not the opposite!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is also the only opportunity, because truth and a certain commitment are absolutely important for a small country. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: In foreign policy too!]] We must not make ourselves bigger than we are. We are an 8 million people, we are integrated into the European Union with about 370 million people, we are a dwarf in the world. But I believe that this year 1998, especially thanks to the Austrian Presidency, we have found a far beyond our size. I personally believe that we have done well, at least all those who have been involved – the officials as well as the many politicians who have worked, but also the country representatives – have worked hard. And why should we not dispute this in such a discussion and thank everyone for having been involved in it? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I found it very interesting that Peter Schieder tried to reflect the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I can actually agree with the analysis on every point. I also believe that, as the Federal Ministry Act provides, foreign policy in the ministry is conceived by the professionals. At the same time, we have a service function, a service function for everyone else; by the way, too, for Parliament, because there is a lot of information about the foreign office coming to Parliament with explanations, and I do not think anyone has reason to complain about the fact that the flow of information does not work. If there is a panic somewhere, then that is certainly not intended, because full transparency and absolute honesty of information are, at least, one of the basic principles of my understanding of a common foreign policy, and I believe that this also works quite a bit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I would also like to thank the officials – they are sitting here – who have prepared this report to the best of their knowledge and consciences. However, I would also like to thank the absent State Secretary, who is now acting in my office. I have visited the Bulgarian Foreign Minister Nadeschda Michailova, and therefore I came too late for 3 minutes because I did not want to be rude and run away from the press conference too early while she was talking. I'm asking for forgiveness. So the Secretary of State represents me, and I would like to thank her, who is actually inappropriately – if I may say so once, Mrs. Dr. Gredler – here in the discussion and criticism, once again. It has borne the main burden of the organisation of the Presidency. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You – together with Ambassador Lennkh, who organized this – owe it to us that the budgeted 350 million schillings have not been exhausted, but we have come to terms with only 200 million schillings. This is a remarkable success, and the merit of Mrs. Benita Ferrero-Waldner alone is due. I'm really just the one who looked very happy. She made this great! Mrs Gredler! Now I would like to say something to you because you are constantly riding around on the mini theme of the message in Madrid and are criticizing it. The Secretary of State has not applied – and will not apply. Perhaps you can finally stop with this legend! Because it's unfair to bring someone here into constant discussion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Maybe I can help you out. As a parliamentarian, you should know that the National Council election was held on 3 March. It will take place in October and, following a call for proposals, I will be presented to the Council of Ministers before the summer. Stop putting into suspicion a qualified woman who would be qualified for each ambassador post who suspects that she is "setting up" a post. She didn't deserve that, and I won't let that happen, Mrs. Doctor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you something third. I do not give her here because she is a highly successful State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – so that it is clear! [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fourth point is this. They always quote in a very strange blur, so you wonder if there is another who appears under the pseudonym "Wolfgang Schüssel" and gives any word messages of his own. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I should have said that Ambassador Wotava must stay in Madrid so that he has contact with the king. – Please, believe me, I know... [[Abg. Dr Gredler: No! Good wire to the king's house!]] Or the royal house – believe me, I know that Agenda 2000 is made by the head of government and its representatives. I don't need any help here. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: There are 40 witnesses!]] I have certainly not said anything else in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Every ambassador's proposal, which I presented to the Council of Ministers, had been drafted and reviewed and previously voted with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, because the ambassadors are also his ambassadors. I very much hope that at some point the reason will prevail and that we will bring together an objective ambassador list through the Council of Ministers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A very warm thanks to all the parliamentarians who have supported me and also Alois Mock in his struggle for a statute for foreign service for a very long time! We waited 15 or 20 years for it, and yesterday we brought it – this is a great pleasure for me – through the Council of Ministers. I should like to ask that, as far as possible, all political groups agree with this modern law. Almost all EU countries, as well as Switzerland and other countries, have such a statute. That would be a big step forward to this service function that Peter Schieder had in mind. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now a few words on the most pressing issue of these days, on the Kosovo conflict. I have listened here with great interest to the speeches, especially those of Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander, who has made some very critical comments in my direction, but the reality, ladies and gentlemen, looks different. For example, you have now indirectly accused me of encouraging people like Djukanović, Djindjić or others, perhaps causing something opposite, and you have asked why I would not have done this earlier. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: I didn't blame that!]] Mrs Doctor, you are a professional, you are constantly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'll inform everyone. President Djukanović was elected in October 1997 and not four years ago. In January he took office as President. You must know that I received him alone three times in Vienna. You can't seriously say here that I have now suddenly, because it's fashion, because it's a topic and because I want to come to the media with it, President Djukanović brought to Vienna. I was the first to respect him and who consciously also gave him the opportunities to perform on the international stage. In the meantime, all – the Germans, the English, the French – are doing this because it is of course important. But he never forgot that his first visit took him to Vienna. We have helped him internally in many ways, and today he is a safe haven for Serbian intellectuals or for journalists who have been banned from working in Belgrade. I'm begging. You're on: Cancel this request! A ceasefire without any condition? – Friends, we all want peace, but we do not want the peace that Milošević dictates! We want a peace that helps the victims, dear friends! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, a triple, a fivefold yes to conflict prevention! For me – I recognize this as a Christian Democrat, and I am sure that all Social Democrats, Liberals, Greens and Liberals feel the same way – war cannot be the first means of resolving conflict, but the very last of all! Now you can ask: Have we done enough to prevent conflict? – I really believe that, according to honest knowledge, as well as the current President-in-Office Joschka Fischer, a Greenman, or the current head of government and chairman of the European Council Gerhard Schröder, a Social Democratic – they see this as well as the Liberals or we Christian Democrats –: We believe that, according to human discretion, we have done everything we can to give peace a chance. We have been negotiating for months to reach a political solution. But at some point you have to take note of it: The deportations did not begin after the bombings took place, but the displacement of 500,000 people began last year, 1998. The operation "Hufeisen" was planned and carried out precisely, until Rambouillet was expected to continue. Then it started lightning-like. The whole story started in January. Our own intelligence, but also many others have warned about it in good time! I beg you: Let us free ourselves from this legend, because it is really the legend of a man, namely that of Slobodan Milošević, who is now waging the fourth Balkan war! 6 million displaced and 300,000 dead complain! He is writing another chapter in this sad bestseller, "The Black Book of Communism": Disfellowshipping, murders of discomfort, displacement of a minority. This can be done at the end of the 20th century. By the 19th century, it simply won't be tolerated! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In fact, foreign policy is a key area. This is one of the most exciting activities at all, because it has a width to do with the fears, desires and hopes of the people: war and peace. Europe today is a question of war and peace. That is why foreign policy is also so interesting, because it gives us a chance in Vienna – we are just in the centre of the geography of the region – as they have few other countries. It is not true that we are not planning for the next time – even now! On Sunday Carl Bildt was in Vienna. I have spent the whole evening alone with him without the press and without the public, only in planning what you can do and how things can work. We deliberately brought together the moderate president of the Albanians, Rugova, the "Gandhi of the Balkans", at lunchtime for informal, confidential discussion with the EU foreign ministers. It was a spooky conversation with a man who had been the prisoners for weeks and the hostages of Milošević. In Priština, in the early morning, they pushed the whole family, eleven people in number, into a room and posted out 50 armed men, who had shot continuously, at unrhythmic intervals. Again and again they knocked, even at night, and said: We have just saved you from a terrorist attack by the UůK. – He does not like to talk publicly about these questions. He tells us today that Priština is a ghost city. There's almost no more Albanians there. They've driven him out just like everyone else. Town district for district was cleaned in Priština. 15,000 lived in his district. At 4 o'clock in the morning, they woke him up, drove all the others out and put him under house arrest. That's the reality! If Djukanović is represented as a high traitor today, if Djindjić, the oppositionist, had to flee to Podgorica, to Montenegro and was bombed yesterday on his party headquarters, then the reality is. There you go, please, no ceasefire without any condition! He's helping a single one: Slobodan Milošević. And that can't be our interest! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We had a long discussion with Igor Ivanov last night in the circle of the 15 Foreign Ministers of the Union. After that, I had the great joy and the chance that I could talk to him alone for an hour and a half. My impression is: The Russians want a peaceful solution, they want a political solution. They are extremely difficult in their own circle – Duma and mood in the public – and they are extremely difficult to deal with Belgrade, because precisely those points and the principles on which Russia has now agreed with the Europeans and with the Americans are not currently accepted by Belgrade. What gives me hope is that they talk to each other. What gives me hope is that – little-known and beyond the public – the Americans and the Russians Thanks to God, we are now talking more intensively about what a military presence might look like afterwards – with what composition, with what surface composition. That gives hope, and I think that is absolutely all right. We should therefore do everything to keep the Russians on board and give them the chance to present their role accordingly. I also say quite openly: We should remember in time to send out signals that not after such peace Milošević may gain time to light up the next mood somewhere. Why not, for example, – as in Dayton, where the Serbian President, that was Milošević at the time, has negotiated and signed – consciously this time only with the Serbian President – this time Milutinović – and with the other President of the Republic, Djukanović, negotiate such a solution and consciously show Milošević that the state community is not interested in doing things exclusively with him? These are questions that need to be considered honestly. Should not such a peace package also include conditions for the democratisation of Serbia and Yugoslavia? – Free media, freedom of expression, proper treatment of minorities also in Vojvodina, in Sandschak, in Montenegro or elsewhere! Quite consciously, any lunch that still shines in the Balkans is leaving! That seems to me to be important. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies Gradwelt and Marizzi.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What is the lunch?]] The third point: I have, of course, seen and read the debate on security policy in the last few days and weeks with great interest. That's also somewhere... [[Abg. Wabl: What is the lunch?]] I'm sorry, I don't want to go through intermediate calls now. I think I have spoken for too long, but I would like to put an end to this matter, because it belongs to it that day. I think we have a dissent in security policy. This dissertation began with the option report. The option report – it is perhaps important to remember this – has failed, de facto, in one sentence: In the future, the Federal Government wants to consider all the options of a European security system, including membership of NATO, to examine positively and to give the Foreign Minister a mandate to investigate. – Not a decision, but an exploratory mandate, and openness to all options, including NATO membership! From this crisis, from this failure – that was the starting point in the negotiations – there has now been a continuing development of a dispersal that would not actually be necessary. In fact, we have jointly chosen a way, by the way, ratified by Parliament, which has already carried us on significantly and constructively. The following document has now been presented, by the way, so that the person who wants to see it can look at it, the Presidency report on the strengthening of a common European security and defence policy. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel keeps a document up to date.]] That's the text. This text fulfils the Treaty of Amsterdam, which entered into force on 1 January 1989. In May it entered into force after being ratified by the Austrian Parliament with far more than two-thirds majority, with life. For in this Treaty of Amsterdam stands: We want the common foreign, security and defence policy, but that must now be concrete. This is the concrete "blueprint", the "road map", in which direction we want. We have – and this must also be said by Mrs Kammerlander, even if she is not here at the moment; I'm sorry, you're here; I have She was looking up there – as a result of the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam, our neutrality and constitutional law has long been adapted. This is also the background to the fact that, by the way, as well as Finnish Social Democratic and Prime Minister Lipponen, I am saying today: We are no longer neutral as during the Cold War when we stood between East and West, but today we are participating in Union solidarity. Europe must develop a common capacity in matters of security policy. It is not about building up a European army of its own. The core of what is stated in this document is nothing more than the fact that within the next one and a half years we will define the form of organisation which this European security architecture and this European security association should really look like. There will be meetings of the Foreign Ministers with the possibility of attracting the Ministers for Defence. There will be the construction of a military team of their own. There will be the establishment of a body of its own, in which the political and the security committee will cooperate. There should be planning capacities. And everything contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam – peacekeeping, peacekeeping, humanitarian aid, crisis management – is to be guaranteed by these instruments. At the end – date: At the end of 2000, the necessary decisions will be taken, likely to mean that the WEU will be transferred to the European Union in its main functions. There is already a common view among the government parties that we will be in solidarity with such a merger. [[Abg. Scheibner: The opinion would be interesting!]] The time is still open, but the statement is agreed that we will then participate in it in military terms. Question Article 5... [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a military pact, the WEU! How's it going?]] No, Mr Scheibner, that's not right. [[Abg. Arbitrator: He said "EU"!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, WEU!]] The question Article 5 has not yet been referred to automatically. But that will be a topic. That is why I am pleading for this because we need to have an honest discussion. We can't hide this discussion for five years now, we can't. We're in the middle of it, we even started it. Under the Austrian Presidency, for the first time the Heads of Government – 11 of them Social Democrats – have, the Foreign Ministers – among them, there are two Christian Democrats, Abdel Matutes and me, so we are not in the overwhelming majority there – and for the first time the Ministers of Defence discussed it. We're more than we believe. In Austria we have the possibility of a constitution, we have adapted the neutrality law by doing so. We can be solid, and we should move much more freely into this discussion. Therefore, the following proposal, for somehow I would like to get out of this pattern: Why don't we start a new approach to the option report? – If he has failed to find out whether we are open to all options including NATO membership, we will do the following: Let us turn the matter around, let us say that we are open to all options, with no possibility being excluded, and let us assume that, after the elections, in a calm time, we will define the conditions for this option, which, like Finland, each country will decide for itself. Finnish Prime Minister: Finland too has the option to participate in Allianz, but that will be our own decision. I therefore propose that we take up the option report again, perhaps with this amendment : [[Abg. Scheibner: It would be high time, Mr Foreign Minister!]] No option excludes because it would be dishonest, but even now do not fix an option, because that is not necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are talking about this in committee. We just need to decide!]] First, it is about the European Security Association, and then Austria can and should make an independent decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have been thinking about this for a long time because, I say it quite openly, I have the greatest interest in a common foreign and European policy. We're a little country, and we're lost if we don't talk inside and outside with a voice. In addition, I say quite openly: The Austrians rightly expect this from us. There must be a way and a bridge that is good for us. One last point I must make, because Mr Scheibner said that we cannot represent Austrian interests in Europe. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you do it? You're not doing it!]] Please, that's not true! You have started well, now you also stick to this common line! We have achieved much more in Europe than you have ever believed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then I'm just saying it a little puzzling with a literal quote. Faith You really are saying that someone represents Austrian interests better in Europe, which, like Jörg Haider, is still looking for the shield blaze in the yogurt in May 1999 and has now said: You can't find it because it's on the Spanish yoghurt cups in Spanish, and you can't translate that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you say about your line in Easter? What about 2045, as the union union says? In the period?]] All right, east expansion! Please, Mr Scheibner, if it is not an Austrian interest to implement this in the timetable ahead of us – a medium-term period! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I remind you of what Haider said. He warned about the opening of the east as much as he did now before the enlargement of the East. However, there are scientific studies that clearly demonstrate: The east opening has brought us an improvement in the Austrian trade balance of 31 billion schilling. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which east opening?]] Listen! Criticize it afterwards, listen at least once! Austrian companies currently have 15 000 joint ventures in Central and Eastern Europe and employ 85 000 people there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Wait! And now comes... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Yeah, all right, that's not the issue either. But now the point is coming. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a false fact!]] The Austrian companies employed abroad have increased their number of employees from 70 000 to 190 000 in the period since the opening of the east in Austria. We have therefore created more than 50 000 jobs net thanks to the opening of the east in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has nothing to do with EU enlargement!]] With enlargement, the effect will not be quite as strong, all scientists say quite objectively. [[Abg. Aumayr: Now you promise additional jobs, as before EU accession!]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The reality is not changed by not taking notice of it. We want to make Austrian interests visible in Europe, that is, to make enlargement the right way. Nuclear safety, for example, was an absolute priority topic of the Austrian Presidency and was included in the accession criteria catalogue. And we will ensure that these criteria are not watered down, dear friends! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Austrian interests in the European Union. – If it is not successful that today 90 percent of the area of Austria is integrated into the European environmental programmes and that Austrian organic farmers inhale a quarter of the total EU funding... [[Abg. Scheibner: Great when 12,000 farmers leave their farms!]] So, if this is not a success, Mr Scheibner, I don't know what a success is at all! There is not only a stone of the wise, but many stones. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 12,000 farmers give up their farms!]] But we need to bend to lift them up. If you look away all the time, you won't find the gold nuggets flashing in the middle of the street. [[Abg. We're not in Alaska!]] In this sense, I believe, a proper representation of Austrian interests in the European Union is absolutely important. But you can do that only if you work on it with fire, passion and competence. And I think we can!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7092	Mr Graf, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke on an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7116	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The Minister here, after speaking for more than 40 minutes and knowing that the opposition has little time to speak, has claimed that the party chairman of the Free Party would have warned against the opening of the East. [[Sustained unrest]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] – That’s wrong! I'm actually correcting: We have always and always been for the opening of the East, for the decline of the Eastern Communist dictatorships in Europe, but not for an EU enlargement process or for an EU enlargement as it is currently taking place. [[Oh! Call at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7170	The next speaker is Mr Höchtl. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7191	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This report, the debate and the Foreign Minister's current opinion have once again shown: Austria operates a very consistent foreign policy, with passion, with verve, with consideration and with long-term strategy. That's what a state like Austria needs. That is what we stand for, and we also say a clear yes to that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The leaders of this Second Republic have also always said a clear yes to the right and to injustice wherever injustice has always occurred. They have always said yes to the conditions in which people can live in freedom, and have always opposed all forms of dictatorship. We have always fought against those who drive, and have always placed us on the side of the displaced. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We were always on the side of the victims and fought those who were the criminals – whether in Kosovo, be it in Czechoslovakia or in Yugoslavia the terrible conditions of the Beneš decrees or the AVNOJ regulations. [[Abg. Scheibner: But why did you always vote against it?]] In this fight against the Beneš decrees and against the AVNOJ provisions, no one has surpassed us. We are fully convinced that these provisions will be repealed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am a son of parents who were violently expelled from southern Moravia in 1945. I can assume that the fate of my parents was just as terrible as the fate of the other 3.2 million displaced people who have been violently driven out of their native country from today to tomorrow. 240 000 of these people have been brutally killed. For us a conviction was given: Injustice remains unjust, even if it has been 54 years ago. That's what we're standing for! That's our conviction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This chapter of the expulsion, the killing, the expropriation of 3,2, yes, a total of 3,5 million Sudeten Germans is one of the darkest chapters in the history of Europe. This expropriation, this murder, this expulsion of children, of women, of men from their homeland remains an open wound and challenges us all to do everything to fight against the legitimacy of this action, which is based on the Beneš decree. This is our mission as democrats, as those who stand for freedom, who stand for human rights and who stand for international law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few years ago, Professor Ermacora, who has long done here in the House of Greats, stated in an opinion that these Beneš decrees were already illegal and illegal to human rights at the time of their adoption. They are not compatible with a European legal standard. – An attitude that is clearly expressed by us. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] But – and I say that clearly – neither in Austria nor in neighbouring countries should these historical problems serve the extremists, the nationalists or the old communists as a pretext for hostile moods. That is why I am particularly pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that the two government parties have jointly prepared a request and I would like to present this motion for a resolution here today, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a clear attitude expressed by both sides of the government. I think the displaced people of that time have the same right to stand up for their right, as do those who are now displaced in Kosovo. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why do you give a Sunday talk on Wednesday?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm loading everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of all political groups agree with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7302	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I now give the floor to Mr Jung. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7326	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to the speeches of the speakers of the coalition parties, you can only say: Scenes of a marriage. You will soon need a mediator to get the rest of the legislative period over the rounds. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – There is already a professional recommended. But it is not only the unfortunate dispute within the coalition parties that is affecting Austrian foreign policy, it is also the dispute within SPÖ, which is becoming increasingly evident. For example, today, Commissioner Swoboda makes the Federal Chancellor quite clear and unabated in the press that he is not allowed to ban his mouth. It would be very interesting to see this dispute between the Vienna SPÖ and the German Federation, if it were not bad for the reputation of Austria abroad, and that is the problem. I understand that Mr Schieder, who has now sought wideness, has no joy at the discussion of Austrian foreign policy, he said already in 1996: I am against the fact that our foreign policy concepts are being considered too loudly in public. – He apparently said this in a wise foresight. But this is an external policy of enlightened absolutism: Everything for the people and nothing for the people. – A rather strange procedure, Mr. Schieder. But also Mr Spindelegger, who so euphorically praised the Foreign Minister and attacked the Federal Chancellor, was written in the main book: The responsibility, the last responsibility for foreign policy lies with the Foreign Minister, and of this one has not been heard much recently about these points; he has let the Chancellor lead and represent his foreign policy. The Foreign Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will be asked by you and at least has a joint responsibility for what is going wrong in his department. Our foreign policy debate today has actually been essentially concerned with internal policy, and this is clearly a consequence of the condition of the coalition. But there are also some points in the field of foreign policy that need to be discussed. You referred to the enlargement of the East, Mr Minister, to whom you have confessed on every occasion and which unfortunately aroused false hopes in the candidate countries. The policy of promising something which is unsustainable in the host countries has led to sustainable moods there, and we MEPs note this over and over again in talks with Members of these countries. They commend the start of the negotiations as a great success in Austria, but you will tell us – and I quote literally – that the delicate questions have probably not yet been discussed. – And there is really very, very much trickling in this thing. I am thinking only of the migrants who will come to us if you really continue in the way you promise in these countries. This policy of enlargement at all costs – in order to pay a price that we Austrians, the Austrian citizens, would pay for the EU, because we are net payers, and hardly a Pole or a Czech will look for a job in Spain or Portugal – we are not ready to participate, and we agree with the Austrian voters and citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then what happens? – The neighbours placed on the waiting list must, of course, be compensated, best financially. They recently explained the conviction and pride in the throttle: The Austrian Presidency deserves the EU to loosen 80 billion euros for this, i.e. more than 1 100 billion schilling "smear money". . We will pay this, Mr Minister, and I do not know whether this is really in the sense of Austrian policy, which you pretend to represent, that we will finance our future competitors, our future competition. That's not our policy, Minister. And now the main point of today's debate, of the Balkans and Security Policy. In Your coalition pact has provided an option report – you have already addressed it today – as a necessity to bring Austrian security policy into proper form. We all know it was a plate! At the time, you said: The result must be a clear recommendation for as fast as possible accession to NATO. Any other option or a shift in the decision to the next legislative period would be a danger to the country's security situation. – A danger to the country’s security situation, Minister! We now have the pleite, and where are your consequences? Where did you turn this danger away from Austria, as it would have been your task? Or was that just a loot, Mr. Minister? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Meanwhile, NATO enlargement is taking place, and since the Washington conference, we all know that the doors to NATO have been closed for a long time. We are not even mentioned among the possible candidates. But instead of using this forced break for reflection and discussion with the citizen, the chancellor would have preferred a multi-year ban on thinking – quite in the style of the previously addressed by colleague Schieder – because the SPÖ is just too shattered internally and cannot decide. And what about Austria, ladies and gentlemen? – That must not be the case! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] NATO has made indisputably many and serious mistakes under the pressure of the USA in the Kosovo question. This is primarily due to a woman who is at the head of the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs who has put all the warnings of the experts, especially the military, in the wind. But the SPÖ sees less the European tragedy of dependence on the United States as an opportunity to change political small money from anti-US voting. This is not the right way, ladies and gentlemen. All of this is done without regard to the strengthening of a dictator such as Milošević and the undermine of Austria's reliability in the Western community of values. And in this policy, in this foreign policy, not you, but the chancellor – and that is highly doubling – gives the line. The chancellor supports the EU, from which all – including military – NATO measures were jointly approved. I read to: The Heads of State and Government – ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – the chancellor has signed this! – consider that the use of the most stringent measures, including military action, was necessary and justified. - Right! At the SPÖ Party Day, he says: Finally, with the bombardments and peace for Europe as a whole, without conditions! – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, is that a consequence? Do you call the consequence, or did he forget what he signed there on the flight from Berlin? – No, I can’t imagine that, so it’s dual-use! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The chancellor approves the use of Austrian helicopters in Albania, which fly connecting flights there for a NATO command to which the Austrian soldiers are subordinated, and at home he preaches neutrality. What is the other thing, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? [[New condolences with the liberals.]] On the occasion of the disaster in Galtür, the chancellor calls on NATO helicopters to help, but at the same time forbids NATO forces who want to drive an evacuation and rescue exercise, passing through Austria. – This is dual practice, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! And finally, the chancellor calls for an active neutrality policy – whatever. At the same time, however, the Austrian Embassy in Belgrade is closed and the Austrian ambassador is already massively abused as an EU representative, as an Austrian ambassador. Because it is not possible to be ambassadors of a neutral country while at the same time exerting pressure on the host country for the EU. We've already got the answer. That Vranitzky was rejected as a mediator is not least because we are no longer considered neutral. That's where you can say what you want. I quote you the Finnish head of government. Lippons defined status Finland as no longer neutral, because "we participate in EU solidarity". – Minister! This is decent foreign policy, but not what we are doing in this context: Preach neutrality and in reality no longer be neutral! That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The question then arises: Who is doing Austrian foreign policy, Mr. Foreign Minister? We are opening up our message in Belgrade, among other things, because, as we have heard today, it has become too dangerous there because threats have been emitted against the ambassador and individuals. If that were the measure of space for a message, then the US would no longer occupy half of its messages around the world. I don't want to underestimate that. You can evacuate family members, you can evacuate embassies! But if you take neutrality seriously, if you want to act as a mediator, then you have to remain present on the spot, and we are not today. But we are no longer neutral in this debate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who makes foreign policy, Mr Vice-Chancellor? - Foreign Minister? When did you put the chancellor in the closets? Or does he have you over policy competence? [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] Mr Foreign Minister, with this false and harmful restraint in foreign policy, you deserve at most an Oscar for the best political side role, no more! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Häupl, with his statement that participation in the CFSP would be the end of Austrian neutrality, was right! He said, you have to be clear. We are now taking part in this common foreign policy. Are you aware of this, Mr. Foreign Minister? If the Federal Chancellor is himself, Your government partner is clear about this? If so, why do you allow the Austrian people to be led astray in the public? Federal Minister! Can you tell me how an Austrian ambassador abroad should represent this slinging course of this so-called Austrian foreign policy, for example, in Brussels or against NATO, without constantly becoming ashamed? In this foreign policy, for which you, Federal Minister, have the responsibility, the Chameleon has long replaced the Federal Eagle as a coat of arms. Our consent to this international disassembly of Austria will not get you!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7430	Mr Dr Kier spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7451	Mr President. It has just become known through the APA that there is a protocol of talks which indicates that Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister of the Interior, was personally informed in 1997 about the illegal practices of human rights, in particular about the clasp of the mouth to be moved. Federal Minister Schlögl has recently expressly assured that he was aware of such practices for the first time through the death of Marcus Omofuma. I therefore apply according to § 18 para. 3 Rules of Procedure, the National Council may require the presence of the Federal Minister for the Interior, in order to ensure that his presence in the question discussed today after 15 o'clock is ensured, so that he has the opportunity to comment on these incredible accusations personally in this House. I would also like to have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7479	Deputies! You now want to decide on the presence of the Minister for a debate that will take place after 3 p.m.?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7497	I would like the National Council to make a decision that the Minister of State is sure to be present in the debate on questioning. [[Abg. Scheibner: He can only demand this for this debate!]] For it does not have to appear for such a debate. It is normal for him to appear, but I would like that to be assured because I assume that it is a matter of concern to this House that the Minister of State may express himself directly and immediately on these accusations against him.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7533	Deputies! You have already cited § 18 of the Rules of Procedure. It is clear from this that you always have the right to request the presence of the Minister at the corresponding item on the agenda and also a decision on it. But they do not demand the presence of the Minister for the item on the agenda which we are currently discussing. We cannot now take a decision or lead a debate on the presence of a member of the government to a point which will be called later. But I'll tell you the following: I take note of your communication and I will try to make sure that the Minister of the Interior is present here in person during the debate on the item on the agenda you have referred to. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7560	If he is not present, I shall, of course, make the request under this item on the agenda once again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7584	Deputies! Excuse me, if I say so informally: That's where the application belongs too! We are now continuing in the debate. I call Mr Cap. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7614	Mr President. High house! I believe that it is not just now, but for a long time now, that it is time to have a fundamental discourse on our foreign policy. Our membership in the European Union and the project to give this Union new structures and possibly to make an extension make such a discussion more necessary than ever. I have followed with interest today's opinion of the Foreign Minister – and also his yesterday in the television programme "ZiB 2": I must say: It is true that it is not only because we held the EU Presidency last year that we can talk about an active foreign policy, but it is really an active foreign policy, but it must be inconceivable that there can and should be a controversial discussion about this foreign policy in Austria. I appreciate it to the Foreign Minister that he is also dealing with such controversial debates, and that he is indeed presenting, beyond the day, some idea or idea, which, of course, may differ. This is not a statement about his qualification as a foreign minister, but it is a positive element, in my view, to democratize foreign policy by putting it to the debate. Nevertheless, I would like to make a small critical comment. I have followed your comments very closely in the "ZIB 2" yesterday. When you were finally addressed to Hannes Swoboda's criticism, you said that he was a retired top candidate, who was almost not satisfative. I don't think that was the real one... or no opponent for you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] – In my opinion, this statement was not worthy of you. Just stand up for the fight! Lead You have this controversy, just as you have always led it up to now, because I believe it is positive that you have done so far. I therefore believe that your proposal today to think about a new start to the option report, which is one that is open to all options, is basically interesting and positive. Why don't you talk about it? [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] I think that this is something that can in principle help us along the way in the search for a national consensus in security policy. [[Abg. Kiss: No red one claps! The arbitrator doesn't clap!]] I know that, unfortunately, foreign policy is often also the subject of internal policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Thank God!]] What country does not have the problem of not being able to think about lupen-clean foreign policy concepts, because of course one has to consider whether it is capable of internal political majority? We know that! The question is only whether this hike on the narrow ridge will also succeed, whether it does not sometimes go a little too far into the internal policy, or perhaps even go beyond the minds and the psychology of the people. Mr Scheibner mentioned earlier this famous question of a war participation and the Austrian attitude to it. Of course, we have an information order in this regard, and of course we need to have a discourse on that. One has to understand this, however, because if one studies Austria's history of the last centuries – we have all heard this in history lessons – one realizes that we have almost no war left out and in almost all wars a – in order to formulate it now salopp – got over the pear. [[Abg. Wabl: And that's why the bowl suffers, because we're not there!]] Therefore, the fact that there is not exactly a great willingness to participate in any further war – undifferentiatedly said – must be understood from this psychological condition. And that's why, I think, it's really necessary to take it into consideration. I would add that it will therefore be important for us in the future to think about the reform of the UN. We are active in this respect, and we are also taking a leading part in this group of reforms. The UN seems to be a hub, but it will only have a future if it is able to reform, especially in the Security Council, and especially as regards veto law, because we see in this foreign policy report how difficult it was to reach a real consensus on the issue of Kosovo. And Austria – and I will also read this from this report – will be required, in terms of enlargement – despite our peripheral situation, on the question of institutional reform, because we as a small country could be faced with x-any institutional reform, and of course in security policy. It is therefore important that we really seek a basic national consensus in this regard too! [[Abg. Young: And what about the five-year period of thought?]] I was very impressed by what I have read about the field of foreign cultural policy in this report. This is an extensive, interesting report. It would be worth even more detailed – perhaps in a separate brochure or in a parliamentary survey – to address it. It is a catalogue of services that is truly impressive, and I can only express myself praise and positive.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7718	Mr Smolle has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7747	Gospod Minister! Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. Minister! Already in the discussion so far, it has been clear that a common foreign policy of this Federal Government is only a wishful idea of the Foreign Minister. He wishes to have that, but in reality we have to do with a federal government deeply disputed in itself. As in other areas, it is not clear whether the respective ministers and the Federal Chancellor belong to the same government. Ladies and gentlemen! We have just experienced an inconvenient patch in connection with the Swoboda, a member of the European Parliament. He wants to become a Foreign Minister – that is his good right, he can wish – but if he is so massively involved in a major conflict between the climate and the bowl, between the Chancellor and the Foreign Minister, he must, of course, expect to get rid of ear figs, figuratively speaking. But it is surprising that climate and dish are discovering Figl at the same time, but each one of these very famous Foreign Ministers is for himself and for his argumentation, why on the one hand we are very neutral and, on the other hand, do not want to be neutral anymore and that neutrality no longer needs neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen! Neutrality policy is today a policy according to the motto "Wash my fur, but don't make me wet!", because in reality we have already agreed on neutrality. Only the Federal Government does because it has to act populistly on this question, even as if we were neutral. She hears about in the people, and because there may still be a majority of "neutralist" in the people, she believes she must preach verbally still neutrality. In reality, however, it is already quite different in this matter. The ÖVP says that the task of neutrality and NATO accession is the future. Climate supports the bombardment in Serbia and Kosovo. At the same time, the message is being closed, at the same time there is a ban on neutrality, and at the same time there is a trade embargo for Serbia! – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a chewing oil in the Austrian foreign policy, which we cannot accept! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! You're in charge. Speak a clear word or step down and say that makes climate and Swoboda for me anyway! – This is a vulgar populism, a neutralism that simply lacks the background. By the way, it must also be said that we do not have a high level of national defence. They have disassembled them, not only budgetaryly, but they have also made them empty, because they no longer know what to use this army if they give up neutrality and mark the common great European security path. Now a few thoughts about security policy. We Liberals are clearly committed to a European security system. We are committed to a European army of quality. We are therefore also committed to the willingness to disband the national armies as soon as we have a common security concept. It is a question of creating a common European security concept, of creating a common European defence and of course also of achieving a merger of WEU and European Union. However, there is a need for a clear decision by the Federal Government, it is a clear proposal in Parliament so that we can find it, but not a resurgence in the nebulous area. The common security policy also means a common defence policy, meaning a common army. I recall the statement of Prodi he made a few days ago, namely, on the 10th. May, did. Ladies and gentlemen! The refugee policy, which has unfortunately become up-to-date in our country due to the events of the past few weeks, is also set out in the Amsterdam Treaty as a common European refugee policy. – Minister! I would have liked to ask you what initiatives you have set for a common refugee policy in this context? Do you know how low the admission rates for refugees from Kosovo are? You know as well as we do that the main burden of this flow of refugees lies with the poorest countries in Europe, namely Macedonia, Albania and also with the Montenegrin, Mr Djukanović, whom you have just visited. It is unheard of that rich Europe is drawing on the poorest countries to solve such a huge problem that these countries are neither able to deal with financially nor from resources. We leave them alone with this problem and we are talking about a supposedly common European asylum and refugee policy! There is no active Austrian refugee policy, neither in Austria itself nor within the EU. On the contrary, there is a very strange agreement between the castle and the bowl, but we will still be talking about it during the day on the occasion of the answer to the question. Ladies and gentlemen! There was no provision! We have known that after the bombardment there will be an unprecedented wave of refugees. I would have liked to hear from an initiative of Austria, the Austrian Foreign Minister, what he will do in the case of this great wave of refugees, which we had to expect at that moment when the first bombs fell on Beograd and the other regions. But we pretend that this would be something completely new, as if there had never been anything like it, and we leave the refugees to the poor countries. There is a very hesitant asylum policy in the country itself. It is precisely this restrictive refugee policy that we have continued at the time of the Austrian EU Presidency. I remember that notorious paper from the Ministry of the Interior, an extremely restrictive paper with which we entered the refugee in the middle of it. That was, as it were, the Austrian contribution to the solution of the refugee question! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in connection with the current conflict in Kosovo, it would be important for sexual abuse to become a clear cause of asylum. I allow myself to submit a five-party proposal on this, which I am delighted to say, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This application is directly related to the present matter. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few more thoughts about the EU reform. I would like to know what measures you have taken in connection with the reform of the institutions. In this respect, nothing has still happened! They have now told us about a hope paper that supposedly fulfills parts of the Amsterdam Treaty. I don't know this paper, but there's a lot of papers, the real question is: What concrete measures do you have before and how to take? You're going to enforce this? What projects do you have in connection with the EU Constitution? Will it come to such a one? Will human rights issues, groups of people be included in it? Will there be a prevention mechanism? How does it look? I have been preaching all these questions from this pult for months, but I do not get an answer from you, but always only references to alleged papers in which all this stands. How do you intend to strengthen the control function of the European Parliament, especially in view of the misuse of EU money? – These are the questions that we would have liked to have answered today, instead of receiving this beautifully printed foreign policy report. How do you intend to strengthen the responsibility of the individual Commissioners, the Commission as a whole? How do you, as it were, want to take them to the candidates of Parliament, to whom they must be responsible? How do you want us to choose Commissioners and not send them in a sloppy manner? Ladies and gentlemen! The employment initiative, which was announced by the European Union and also by the Austrian Government, is currently only reflected in what Mr Gredler has already said: In essence, employment policy is whether we should send a black or a red ambassador to Brussels or, if a black person is sitting there, send a red Commissioner. Finally, it is employment policy for the own people you want to accommodate – that is all I can see! But I see something, ladies and gentlemen, especially ladies and gentlemen of the ÖGB, and I would like to say this clearly in this context: a terrible, co-existent language, a consensual language through which you come into a similar water system to the FPÖ, and especially in the context of Easter enlargement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can also write you something in the main book: They will not be able to overtake Haider on the right, because he still has a little space to the right, on which he can avoid. I am therefore surprised that you are sitting here silent and congratulating such ÖGB papers, which sometimes fall out of nonsense, which are only there to keep the ÖGB members at the bar, so to speak, so that not all of you run away, ladies and gentlemen! It is populism, even at SPÖ, especially in the area I did not expect from which I expected a progressive, positive policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Easter enlargement is a unique opportunity in history – I say in the direction of the Freedom Party – without army, without imperialism Europe under a common system of values, through the voluntary accession of these countries. [[Abg. Young: Orderly! Not in chaos!]] And this opportunity should not be frowned by your sloppy requests and thoughts. The 1993 Copenhagen Declaration is a very clear message and announcement to these countries as well: You must make reforms! And the more quickly the reforms will be implemented there, the clearer and more we say: You'll be taken! We must not deliver them a year different from the date of accession every week, because with this we are giving the non-reformers a boost and, on the other hand, we believe that we can wash our hands in innocence. We know that political scenarios can change, and that the "light interval" we now have must be of full and rapid use in the area of eastern enlargement – on the one hand, for reforms in these countries, on the other hand, in order to achieve the great security policy concept in Europe. Federal Minister! In conclusion – my colleagues already show me that the time is running when I have already spent my speaking time on this subject; the opposition has as always too little speaking time at my disposal – I still agree with a clear sentence in your direction and present here again a special concern in terms of groups of peoples: [[Abg. Haigermoser: That was enough! That's all!]] Finally, please submit a European mature paper on how we want to deal with popular conflicts in the future! This is a very central matter. There are currently conflicts everywhere in Europe, as well as people's issues. I do not understand why you are unable to present to Parliament a clear paper on decision-making. This would also be a good initiative towards Europe, and we would get away from the ever-increasing major coalition conflict that neither Austria nor Europe deserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7829	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Smolle is sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e7854	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! A ghost is about in Austria, I want to call it the "security lie". [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, that's what you can call!]] What's the "security lie"? – This is the claim that Austria’s security would be better guaranteed by a policy of neutrality from the cold war than by a solidarity policy in the European Union. [[Call to the liberals: This is something like the "Constitutional Arch"!]] In this context, the Deputy Head of Delegation of Socialists in the European Parliament, Hannes Swoboda, calls on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the SPÖ. And the SPÖ party president wants a better foreign policy. I cannot spare both politicians the following accusation: While people die during the war while bombs fall, while the entire Federal Government, especially our Foreign Minister, strives for peace in Kosovo, while thousands of Austrians provide help on the spot and also in Austria, these two politicians are only concerned with themselves, just about power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Unheard!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is really unheard of! This is cheap propaganda at election level!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] The SPÖ president also speaks differently in different places, as the first speaker of the Volks Party Michael Spindelegger said: In the internal discussion, in the Council of Ministers there are agreed positions, including the Treaty of Amsterdam, including the merger of the European Union and the Western European Union, there is a common foreign policy, but on the other hand it is claimed that there is a need for a better foreign policy, a need for another foreign minister and a desire to do so – and this – ladies and gentlemen, you have heard today, you have heard the Vice-President, you have read the foreign policy report – in the face of an extremely successful EU Presidency! It is really Austromasochism that we break down the great successes, the fruits of hard work of the entire government itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This in the face of a tireless peace policy around the Balkans. [[Abg. Wabl: This is election campaign!]] Today we have heard of Djukanović, Rugova, Ivanov, of the 133 trips this half year et cetera to restore peace. Here, however, power games are run by our government partner, which we reject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do I mean, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Khol, the perforator!]] . Those who predict that there would be a common active neutrality policy of four EU countries, almost parallel to the European Union and NATO, speak in ignorance of reality. The Finnish Prime Minister, Lipponen, made it clear yesterday: Finland is no longer neutral, as Finns participate in EU solidarity. Finland is looking for a European security identity within NATO. Sweden has not been talking about neutrality for a long time. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Is not true!]] Sweden has long said that it is non-committal. Therefore, those who expect salvation from an active neutrality policy commit two mistakes: It isolates Austria within the European Union, and it isolates Austria within those countries in the EU that are not members of NATO. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do I mean? Whoever claims that there will be a European peace order parallel to the Western European Union and NATO, Mr Kostelka, who makes such a thesis, either does not know the documents, the joint documents of the government, or knows exactly that this is an illusion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (a document holding high) reading! Austrian position! Finland and Sweden! Unlike better knowledge, things are claimed!]] We have signed and ratified the Amsterdam Treaty, it is in the constitutional rank, and the document has been amended, Article 23f. We will be participating in Petersberger's missions in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have the paper in hand, the joint paper prepared by the Government, which deals with the merger of Western European Union and European Union and thus a common security. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That says something else!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That says something else! That is the problem, you want to be in NATO without having decided! That won't work! Not with us!]] In this the wording can be found: "Joint security without parallel structures". – So if you pretend that there would be a special train next to it for one or another, it's just a gaugler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How else should I judge it if someone proposes to exclude neutrality for five years and to withdraw from the election campaign, but at the same time the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force, but at the same time the newspapers contain stickers with which exactly the opposite is made, namely neutrality, the topic of election? At the same time, negotiations are under way within the Government on the merger of the European Union and the Western European Union. It is being negotiated through the European pillar in NATO – but should we not discuss neutrality? At the same time, however, they have been made since 8. April this year very consciously on the main topic of election – and I accuse the Socialists of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What else is the security lie, ladies and gentlemen? – If it is said that the European Parliament will vote on NATO and neutrality in the election. Here I am with Ursula Stenzel: It will be decided on questions of employment in Austria, it will be decided on questions of continuing training for our young people, it will be decided on questions of the European Constitution, but we will decide on our policies, on any issues relating to neutrality and NATO ourselves. This election is not about it! [[Further congratulation with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How does a head of government feel called the "double victor" by a respected newspaper? – A disrespectful name. But: on the one hand, a pause on neutrality – the one – and on the other hand, at the same time the topic of election. On the one hand in Brussels and Berlin: The Kosovo actions of NATO are justified and necessary!, but in Vienna one is neutral again. With whom is he to see a vector on the posters for election to the European Parliament? – With Blair and Schröder, both of which are the main contributors of the NATO action in Kosovo. And: "Together we shape the future!" – What future, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And what to think of it when one speaks of an "active neutrality policy" and the other for years and day the necessary support in every respect – in a more moral, financial and material way! – refused? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please note: No one wants to lead Austria into a military alliance against the will of our people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] No one wants to send our present servants to battle abroad. And no one wants to violate the Constitution. [[Abg. Wabl: No one! But you do it from the ÖVP!]] I would like to speak today. You warn here from this pult – the two-man politicians and the Spin Doctors if you want to know exactly –: [[Call:Wen]] Return to reality, return to normality, out of the election campaign, return to the Truthfulness! It didn't pay off the Waldheim lie – Fred Sinowatz had to go. The pension lie did not pay off – Vranitzky had to go. And if you do not return to what I have said to the common formulations, to what is decided jointly in the government, I promise you: It won't be worth the safety lie either.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8116	Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander would like to make a real correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. Start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8144	Mr President. Mr Khol has claimed that even Sweden no longer mentions that it is neutral. I quote from the statement of Government on the occasion of the February 1999 foreign policy debate: Sweden's freedom of military alliance with a view to our country's being neutral in the event of a war in our area, remains and serves to reduce tensions and strengthen security in our part of Europe. We have chosen our own policy and define its exact content. – Excerpt from this speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8174	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8195	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I'm already a little impressed by this well-founded analysis. It essentially covers itself with the criticism that has been practiced by the Freedom Party for many years. But, Mr Klubobmann Khol, in this context I must say something to you: If you are here tossing uncaught withdrawal requests towards the chancellor – and that was a withdrawal request – if you say: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] "Pension lie – Vranckky had to go", "Waldheim lie – Sinowatz had to go", and then also say "security lie", yes then you also say who has to go now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: These were findings!]] Call rose and rider by name when you operate with words like "security lie", "pension lie", "Waldheim lie". In addition, if you also call your coalition partner "Gaukler" – whoever exactly is – and then hide behind the words "no one wants anything", I must say: That's what we had in ancient times. No one had a name, it was Odysseus – you will remember. And here again, no one has a name. Call the name, call it horse and rider! In this context, you owe it to the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We of the liberals always call the name, and therefore we have success with the voters, as the voters know exactly what the liberals want. You will now be active, but at the end of the watch They're back in the same coalition bed as today. And this is for me the lie committed by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Let us return to the foreign policy report, namely the speech by my esteemed colleague Höchtl, who spoke about the expulsion, and once again - like the more often - has made a confession and tabled a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Mr Höchtl: motion for a resolution!]] I would like to make two comments. Mr Höchtl! They have said – and this is correct – that it is a task for all democrats to do everything to eliminate the Beneš decrees. - That's signed. But you know very well that what you are proposing today as a motion for a resolution is not, in fact, all that we are able to do. You have to say that, too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You haven't read this!]] That's not all we could do. This may be all you can do at the moment – which you may be sorry for – but then don't say that it is up to the democrats to do everything they can to eliminate these laws of injustice. Your confession is absolutely correct, and we share it too; we have already shared it in many debates. However, one thing is always symptomatic for me: the criticism, Mr Foreign Minister, which I have been presenting every year since you were in office here from the speaker's desk to your foreign policy report. In fact, there is no sentence in the foreign policy report on the alleged efforts made with regard to the Czech Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] There is no single sentence in it, no effort in relation to the Beneš decrees. The only thing that is set up in addition to many other relatively unimportant matters is that we hold events in the Czech Republic, such as with great success a fashion show at the central Old Town Ring in Prague under the title: Days of the Wiener Kultur. To that end, I say: For fashion everything, for human rights nothing, no line! That's something that's not right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I had actually expected this to happen in your reports – a constant drop is known to be the stone – sometime. But I'll take you by the word: You have always said the question of Beneš decrees, but also the AVNOJ provisions is a matter of bilateral negotiations. I beat the chapter "Special bilateral results and events" and in turn cannot find a single sentence about your efforts to discuss your results in this context. I think that is also important. Although this request you are making is a first step, it is not yet the last one; it will still prove that it cannot be the last one. On the question of nuclear power plants, too, the position of the liberals with the junkimization has finally been a success, and it will have further success. You will see that on this question. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Those who want to eliminate injustice laws must fight them – always and everywhere, in every situation, with all the democratic means at their disposal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why our motion for a resolution is the only one that will actually lead to success sooner or later, because your motion for a resolution does not have any consequences if the Czech Republic does not follow your request. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl:... This is the essential difference!]] However, a negotiating partner must know the consequences. And if he knows them, then he will judge after them. You'll learn that too!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8325	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka has now been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8346	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Obviously Klubobmann Khol confused this stage with a campaign stage. Mr Khol, also in the election campaign, in which you seem to be already, should not be caught up in using the term "security lie" – nor should the coalition partner be exposed to it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol! If you are looking for refuge on such terms, let me say the following with all the clarity from my side: Honesty, especially on the security issue, in the political security question, is what the Austrians were doing before and after the 3. It is right to call for it on October. A party that has said over and over again in recent years, yes, we want to go to NATO – Mr. Federal Minister and Vice-President Schüssel said a few months ago, at the beginning of February: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] Our future is NATO – but then no, we don't want to go to NATO, is one with Safety not: Honestly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I tell you with all the clarity, ladies and gentlemen: As a Socialist Group, we will certainly not take this zigzag course with us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our offer was to exclude neutrality for five years. [[Unrest in the ranks of the ÖVP.]] They want to go before the 3rd. ==References====External links==* Official website Negotiating October – whether directly or in connection with the membership of Austria in the European Union. But that will not happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me talk to you about the facts. If you are discussing Article 17 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, you can also say in this context that this Treaty of Amsterdam is a corresponding decision of the European Union and the consent of each Member State of the European Union – including this House! – provided. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: But only in the military...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! - That's right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] You must therefore be sure that we will not join NATO without a prior decision by this House and also by the Austrian people. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You will not pass a democratic decision on this country – even if you still try so much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On what you, Mr Khol, said in this context about the position paper of the German EU Presidency, I can explain to you the Austrian position, in agreement with Sweden and Finland: [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]] We have clearly said that the decisions on this matter have not yet been approved and cannot be approved without our neutrality. In this really double-bedded way, we do not let ourselves be drawn into a neutrality-injured NATO position, which you obviously try. Honesty is announced! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] And if we are already talking about honesty, Mr Khol, I can also ask what the call for a new option report should be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign the other day.]] You know, Mr Vice-Chancellor, your offer you made reminds me of the principle: Everything is possible, nothing is fixed! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The cap has already agreed!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Cap has approved it!]] What kind of foreign policy is this not positioning itself on this important question? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I ask you, here in this House, but also at European level, to say what you really want, namely a NATO membership. And we will certainly not carry this position! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am deeply saddened by the form of this discussion. There was talk of "Gaukelei" and "Lüge". – I exhort She goes there: If you can't be honest with your coalition partner, then be it at least to the Austrian population! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8544	Mr Vice-Chancellor is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8565	High house! I listened very carefully, and I would like to respond spontaneously to Mr Klubobmanns Kostelka's comments because he mentioned a point which, I believe, can be immediately cleared out. To make it clear once and for all: Theoretically, a merger decision could, of course, be taken on the basis of Article 17 of the Treaty of Amsterdam of the European Council. There is also, in itself, a concerted position in which Austria will have such a decision if it falls in solidarity. I hereby announce - and this is also out of the question - that, of course, within the framework of our constitutional structures, we shall submit such a decision to Parliament at any time and, if you wish, the people will also be asked about it. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: It takes a parliamentary decision and a referendum!]] That's not a problem at all! Only so that this is clarified: You just entered a wide open door with a crazy effort! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I would like to express this clearly in front of the House: I too am in favour of your proposal that Parliament should be involved.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8610	Mr Dr. Ofner has now been reported on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8631	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone has not known so far that elections are at the door, this mirror fighting has led him on the right path. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In three weeks we'll go to the urns. There is now a discord between the two siblings – Klara Motter also obliges me to do as I see – about which one can only smile. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother]] [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] But one hopes that it will be "overcome" through the media and that one will appear that one is not responsible for what the other does. But believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that's too late! You can't take the population around the nose anymore. The citizens know that you are jointly responsible for all that has happened in recent months and years. Now, if you come out here and pretend to beat each other with gloomy ant, no one's going to lose you. Please believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But back to the real issue, namely foreign policy. There is no word to mention this thick report from the front to the front, such as the problem of the ethnic groups, the Altösterreicher German tongue beyond the borders. Who really deals with the fate of – depending on the Lesart – still 60,000 to 200,000 Old Austrian native German language in the Czech Republic? Who with that of the Old Austrian German native language in Slovakia? Who deals with the situation of the minority of the Old Austrian German tongue in Hungary and Romania? Who is with Slovenia and with... – At our event you have been, but here you could have spoken! [[Abg. Smolle: Last Saturday you missed! I was at your event!]] You're not Foreign Minister, Karl, and you won't be so soon. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] The Foreign Minister has to answer what is being discussed here today. I recommend that there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of German native languages in Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and hundreds of thousands of German native languages in some of these countries. Zero rights! I'd like to hear from you once! When it comes to, for example, doing something in the Czech Republic, for example, Slovenia, I would like to hear from you, Karl, that you say from this speaker's desk that you wish that the Slovenian government in Liège, so close to you, finally introduce only a minimum of rights for the Austrians living there. [[Abg. Smolle: You weren't at the FPÖ event!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nothing's wrong with that! You're here for everyone else, you're responsible for everything else. Schüssel is responsible for everything, the foreign-political spokespersons of the government parties are responsible for everything, but no one is responsible for the rights of the Old Austrian German tongue beyond the borders! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smolle:... This is the difference!]] There is no change in the fact that the ÖVP and the SPÖ have withdrawn a request concerning the Beneš decrees very late, which we now have on the table. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Here you go!]] There is now this request. - That was a hard word now. I'm asking for for forbearance, it's been said in the heat of the fight. Peter Schieder, a wise man in foreign policy matters, lifts his finger. He's right! I'm asking for for forbearance, it wasn't meant to be evil. [[Abg. Smolle: order call!]] However, there is an application on the table, which is formulated according to the motto: Wash my neck and don't make me wet! It is a research request; only if one reads what is required, one notices that nothing is contained in it. One comes with beautiful, kind words to those countries beyond the border, who deny the Austrians their rights to German tongues, but has the key to solving the problem itself. One politely asks to open the doors, the doors to minimum rights, the doors too, which are called: Abolishing the anti-human Beneš decrees, abolishing the anti-human AVNOJ provisions. You're asking for something to be done. But we have the key in our hands, the key to which the European Parliament has referred. It is a shame that the European Parliament must point out this and that it has not happened the other way round. The key is: There is still the principle of unanimity in the European Union, although, as we hear, the Austrians should not be averse to it – we are the small Austrians! – to adopt the principle of unanimity. – There is still this principle of unanimity! We therefore have the power to take the key and to block the door towards the abolition of these anti-human rights provisions, which still belong to the legal property of the Czech Republic and the Slovenian Republic, and to insist that German tongues are granted minimum rights in all these states, as Hungary has enforced towards Slovakia. The Hungarians have succeeded in relinquishing Slovakia in the second or third place among the candidate countries, precisely because the Slovaks did not understand how to grant Hungary the corresponding minority rights. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: These are already different! Absorbed! You can't compare that!]] This has explained Budapest and has been successful with it. But Austria cannot and cannot find itself ready to suggest the same. The European Parliament must point out this. We're in the back and we're not consistent. That is really not the way to help the old Austrians in those countries to their right!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8781	I am sure that the word'stitch' has been withdrawn with the expression of regret. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I did! Peter Schieder even brought me back on the right path!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr Gusenbauer has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8817	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have noted with good will that in today's statements on the future of Austrian security policy, Mr Vice-Chancellor has not focused on the question of NATO accession, but has left a relatively broad room for discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Unlike climate!]] I would add that it is useful not to lose sight of the constitutional basis, which is still valid, namely the Neutrality Act, and I would add that what Mr Khol said earlier, is actually contrary to those words of Mr Vice-Chancellor. He has seen, no matter what way, only one goal, namely to join NATO. The question now arises: Does Mr. Vice-Chancellor in the ÖVP have the say or Mr. Klubobmann Khol? Decide, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, it is added: Mr Vice-Chancellor rightly said that it is only then possible for a small country to represent and defend its interests successfully on an international and European scale, if at least in the government there is a uniform position in foreign and security policy. If one accepts this basis, then I must say that Mr Klobobmanns Khol's speech was not a contribution to this agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Especially in a situation like today, in which there are unfortunately very negative developments in the European Union Austria, we should not pretend that the integration process would be as fluid and contradictory as it would be. We do not discuss in the light of the fact that the general commitment to greater cooperation would also be reflected in decisions. The situation we are facing today is quite another: After the last major step of integration, namely economic and monetary union, national interests, especially those of the major Member States of the European Union, have become increasingly important in recent months. It is not wrong in many countries of Europe to discuss the risk of a board of directors in the European Union, in which some larger Member States want to divide their cakes at the expense of the smaller Member States. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is something completely new!]] – Passing Come on! In the light of this situation, it must be legitimate to discuss in a small Member State like Austria how we can better bring in and defend our interests, which are not those of the large Member States. If you don't see this problem, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, then you are not acting in the interests of the Austrian population. I'm sorry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why can climate be photographed with the representatives of the large countries?]] There is one more point to be made. Today, Mr Khol, Mr Khol, has debated the application of the category of lies in politics. He has done this in a way that one can actually call rhetorical "double Rittberger". He lied to the others and, at the same time, knowingly quoted completely wrong here in the House. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz:... This is the problem!]] On many visits to Finland and Sweden, I have found that the colleagues there in the government and in the parliaments are always completely shaken at how their security policy position is presented with us. [[Abg. Young: Have you read the interview?]] It is quite clear that both Finland and Sweden, on the basis of the freedom of alliance, do not take a different attitude in the European integration process than we do. You too know the corresponding papers of these countries. To do as Mr Khol has done, as if Finland and Sweden were only looking at their prospects in NATO, is therefore a conscious error of this House and the Austrian population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I find it particularly amusing when the so exposed master of the fallen cards, Mr Klubobmann Khol, then calls the government partners a gaugler. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: climate!]] I would say, Mr Khol: Save your strength expressions and wipe out the political foam again, because even in a coalition government good children's room is in demand!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8943	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, said that he was correct. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8967	My previous speaker assumed that I had misinterpreted the Finnish intentions. – I quote literally from today’s newspaper "Die Presse": "Helsinki. ‘Neutral?’, the Finnish Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen is amazed at a conversation with German and Austrian journalists. ,We are no longer neutral. We were neutral during the Cold War when we stood between East and West. But there is no East and West anymore. Today we participate in Union solidarity.” – This is a quote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e8997	Mrs Dr. Konrad. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9019	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be tempting to continue the debate at this level. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please! This is a public house!]] I would, however, like to extend the debate on a European security architecture and to talk about security issues, which are at least as important as that, which is now being debated quite strongly and excitedly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Which side are you on? On Cap's?]] In view of the short time available to me, I would like to address something which has not yet been missed, but which seems to me to be at least as important, namely the question of human rights. I would like to refer to the Human Rights chapter. Not least in connection with the war in the Balkans, I want to address human rights violations and their particulars, or, I should say, particularly loathsome forms against women. Austria has taken an international pioneering role in the issue of the recognition of rape as war crimes, because we have recognised rape as an asylum ground for several years. This recognition is important, but it is not enough. The international attention must again and again be drawn to the fact that the specific situation and the resulting special needs of women in the development of human rights are still regarded as subordinate or even overlooked worldwide. As the current internal debate on human rights shows us, it is urgent to look carefully at whether and to what extent human rights apply and apply to all people, or whether and why they do not apply to individual people or to groups of people or not. It is still assumed that women are as well protected from the instruments of human rights or – I should rather say – as badly as men. But that's not true! Last but not least, the World Women's Conference, which has devoted itself to this very subject and which has dealt with it, has shown how much to do in this respect worldwide. It is still assumed that the violation of women's rights is less serious than the violation of so-called sex-neutral rights. The current war in Yugoslavia also makes it clear once again that rape is used as a special torture against women. Although rapes may not be applied in mass in this present war, rapes are often seen as means of ethnic cleansing, belong to the method and are increasingly used as part of a cynical war strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the action "Women Against War", with which the ministers Prammer and Gehrer take up, continue and provide assistance on the ground the action "War Victims of Raped Women", which is certainly still in your memory. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steibl.]] In addition to urgent immediate assistance and support, it will be important to advance the necessary political consequences. Austria must and should be the first step in the EU, internationally and perhaps as a first step, to ensure that rape is generally recognized as war crimes, committed and punished. This initiative could actually be taken from Austria, because we could bring in our weight. Austria enjoys international reputation. Austrian politicians, our diplomats and diplomats are often valued negotiating partners. This should and must continue to be used, and more so, for the extension and strengthening of human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9082	Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. Mr Wabl! I would point out that I must interrupt you in just under 3 minutes to accept the statements by two members of the government. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9104	Mr President. Federal Minister! This debate involves some aspects that a parliamentarian cannot sit quietly on his seat, which simply challenge, Professor Lukesch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] It is unbearable if the language is ultimately used only more to cover up and to surround it with fog, of which we think it is the reality. Minister! If you, as Foreign Minister, are talking about the need for us to do everything we can to stop the lunch in Kosovo, in the Balkans, I wonder why a foreign minister who has considered NATO's bombardment, for whatever moral reasons, can speak of the fact that it is a lunch. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: In the Balkans!]] I've always thought there's a bomb, there's a powder barrel, and there's a lunch on it that you can get out, so nothing explodes. Foreign Minister! There is – I have observed it in the last two months – war in Yugoslavia. There's no more lunch to leave. The lute, which was burned by the Serbian army due to the expulsions and crimes, was bombed by NATO. That's the reality! Whether for good or bad reasons – I don't want to discuss that now. Ladies and gentlemen! I give you the right if you say that, as a country with 8 million people, we should try to play our role. But I cannot understand what a country with 8 million people, with a federal army that is most badly armed for good reasons, should contribute more to peace in Europe or in the world, except through those intervention forces that we successfully provide in connection with the UN mandates around the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9145	Mr Wabl! I apologize: I have to interrupt you now. You will still be given 17 minutes and 13 seconds of speaking time. I am now interrupting the debate on the Federal Government's foreign policy report for 1998. Declarations by the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection and the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family on the topic of Temelin nuclear power plant
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9170	We now come to the statements of the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection Mag. Prammer as well as the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Bartenstein on the subject of Temelin. Following the declarations, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request of five Members, for the duration of a "Vienna hour". The statements made by the two Federal Ministers, as already carried out on the agenda at the time of entry, should not exceed the duration of 10 minutes. I now grant Mrs Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection power. That's what I'm talking about. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9197	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I thank you for the opportunity to make a statement here and today on the Temelin power plant in the Czech Republic. The decision of the Government of the Czech Republic of 12. May 1999 to continue the construction of the Temelin nuclear power plant has, like many others, disappointed me very much. I consider this decision to be a clear mistake, since the arguments that call for an immediate stop to construction far outweigh those for completion. The fact that this decision was taken only by a limited majority – you all know, eleven ministers voted in favour of the extension and eight ministers already – as well as the requirement for strict compliance with the current timetable and a cost framework of just under 100 billion Czech crowns, however, is a source of hope and therefore, for me and, as I believe, for the entire Federal Government, an incentive to continue our activities with great determination. Who would have dared to hope for today's situation a year ago? – Until then, the Government of the Czech Republic had put all warnings and concerns in the wind. Today, many members of the government as well as large groups of the population of the Czech Republic are convinced of the senselessness and absurdity of this nuclear power plant. At this point I would like to express my appreciation for those who had the courage and the far-sightedness to stand up for an independent evaluation and to allow a transparent public debate. I believe that this development is not least a merit of the consistent and tireless work of many members of the Austrian Federal Government. It is also a merit of other local authorities, but above all all all those committed citizens, both in the Czech Republic and in Austria, who, like me, have not given up hope in all these years, but who are still bringing about a change of opinion. The arguments that lie on the table today against the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant and for future-oriented other options are not least the merit of Austrian activities. I would remind you that there were serious concerns as far back as 1993 and 1994 about the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant and that we were right on all points. I would remind you that, above all, Austrian experts provided those arguments and contributions that were so convincing that many have changed their minds over the last few weeks. I also recall that we have never – here I speak for all the members of the Austrian Federal Government involved – left a doubt that Austria is prepared to develop a forward-looking energy strategy with the Czech Republic, to support it with all its forces and also with financial resources where this should be necessary. Not least have we demonstrated this willingness by the above-mentioned activities. If, after all, the Czech Government is still beginning to abandon the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant, what we all hope for and what we will continue to work for, and in this context we will certainly not conclude this wish. In order to achieve this final change, we are currently developing a detailed action plan. Even if not all the details of this action plan are yet to be determined at the hour, I would like to present to you the main points of this already here and today. This action plan concerns both the European and the bilateral levels and comprises a total of five points. First, nuclear safety: Under the Austrian Presidency, the Council called on the applicant countries to improve nuclear safety so that a level similar to that in the Union as regards technology and regulations and in operational terms would be achieved. This is literally contained in this Decision. Since Germany has one of the most modern nuclear laws, I will invite Germany to join us in a fictitious approval procedure for Temelin, thus clearly and clearly listing all remaining shortcomings. I would remind you that Germany immediately discontinued the construction of nuclear power plants in Stendal, because retrofitting would have devoured up to 2.2 billion D-marks on a western, western level. Of course, we will also be discussing this matter with the European Commission. But we must note, ladies and gentlemen, that every Member State of the European Union can decide on nuclear energy. However, accession to the European Union requires compliance with the new rules of the game. And we have something to say about this, ladies and gentlemen – not only in Temelin, not only in the Czech Republic, but also in all the other candidate countries. Therefore, it is clear that: An EU accession of the Czech Republic, in which a Temelin nuclear power plant is operated with a safety risk that is not acceptable, is not possible for Austria and for me as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, the EURATOM initiative. Although some may still hesitate, I will continue to pursue the initiative that I have launched to amend the EURATOM Treaty with the focus on the EURATOM Treaty as a security treaty, the elimination of the democratic deficit, the elimination of the legal and factual special role of the nuclear sector and the entry into the exit process. We must not let the current political constellation in Europe go unprofitable. I am also convinced that it is essential and important to clarify in the direction of the applicants for accession that nuclear safety is also of great importance within Europe, within the European Union, and that we are not only coming at the other doors, but also at our own doors. I believe that this too is fair to all. Thirdly, Competition and State aid law. As the Czech Republic is already bound by Community legislation on state subsidies by means of the Europe Agreement with the European Union, we will, in particular, ask the European Commission, but also other Member States, to pay particular attention to this issue. If necessary, we will fully exploit all available instruments in the framework of the pre-accession process. The fourth point concerns the internal electricity market. Given the obvious intention of exporting electricity from Temelin to the European Union, I assume that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs will be at the forefront and with him the entire Federal Government in analogy to our ElWOG for strict pan-European anti-dumping arrangements and their uncompromising execution. On the fifth point, on environmental compatibility. First, we will remind the Czech Republic of its commitment to ratify the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border framework in the first half of 1999, i.e. in the coming weeks. Regardless of that, in analogy to the EIA procedure, we will ask for our participation in the expected EIA process for Temelin for the planned intermediate storage plants. Ladies and gentlemen! To move the Czech Republic to a final abandonment of the Temelin nuclear power plant, even though the facts are clear and convincing, the joint effort of all – I emphasize: all! – needs to be done. In this context, I very much welcome the fact that a delegation from the National Council will soon visit the Czech Republic. In the early 1990s, when we declared the creation of a nuclear-free central Europe to be government policy and systematically and consistently formulated our resistance to nuclear power plants such as Temelin, we were still besieged by many. Today – let me stress this just a few weeks before the elections to the European Parliament – Austria can build on the support of many Member States of the Union and the European Commission in large areas. Today, there are clear conditions for the applicants to join. We have already achieved a lot together, together we can also bring about the final change in the case of Temelin, ladies and gentlemen. I assume that, in the foreseeable future and in a framework like today, we will be talking about this power plant again – with other consequences and with other signs.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9284	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your comments. Now I ask you, Minister of State Bartenstein, to make your statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9309	Mr President. Dear Mrs Prammer! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In addition to what Mrs Prammer said, let me begin by saying that I am the decision of the Prague Government and therefore the Czech Government of the 12th century. On the other hand, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances (COM(88) 527 final - C5-95/93) was adopted by the Council on 9 May this year. From an ecological point of view and in the sense of nuclear safety, I therefore think it is a mistake because, for example, the report by the Western European nuclear safety authorities WENRA refers to the fact that the two Temelin reactors of type VVER-1000 – the beginning of construction in 1987 – are facing serious difficulties in terms of safety measures and that there have been significant technical problems and delays in recent times, because the integration of technologies of different origins is very difficult. The WENRA report expressly states that the problems in recent years have tended to worsen. I would also like to point out that a resolution of the European Parliament on 6 June was adopted. The Czech Republic recommends that non-nuclear solutions be sought because of financial and technical problems in order to meet the highest possible safety standards, i.e.: Temelin to stop. I would also like to point out, Mrs Prammer, that, in her environmental accession strategy of May 1998, the Commission clearly stated that nuclear power plants in candidate countries would have to meet safety standards comparable to those in the European Union. Finally, I would like to point out that the European Council, the highest body of the European Union, in its conclusions, clearly stated in its decision of December 1998 on nuclear safety, that the safety of nuclear power plants in countries of candidate countries must be in line with the practice of the Union and that, if international standards were not reached with reasonable costs, the closure would be necessary. The European Council, at the same time, states that during the accession process, the Union would closely monitor whether such international standards would achieve respectably which nuclear power plants would have to be shut down. High house! In this context, I am surprised and surprised that the candidate Czech Republic is striking the clear warnings and instructions of the European Union, which are different institutions and bodies, to such an extent, with a narrow but still majority of 11 to 8 votes voted in favour of this decision on the extension of Temelin. However, from an economic point of view, I think that the Czech Government's decision is highly questionable and that it is a mistake. Austria's contribution in recent weeks has been designed, in particular, to meet specific demands from the Czech side and the Minister for the Environment Kuzvart, to clarify the question of whether Temelin could be recognised as a Stranded Investment within the meaning of the rules of the European Union, i.e. as a lost investment. We believe that this will only be possible if the construction is stopped immediately. A further construction of Temelin would probably hinder recognition as a Stranded Investment from our point of view. At the same time, the documents prepared by Austrian experts have made it clear that the electricity which will be produced in Temelin in the future, and hopefully not produced, is not competitive in a liberalised European electricity market. We have also been able to comment on the re-use of the Temelin site and to disperse the employment of the Czech Government in so far as we believe, in a similar way to the Czech Trade Union Confederation, that the construction of Temelin would result in more jobs being lost elsewhere, much more jobs than would be created in Temelin. With all the criticism of this decision of the Prague Government, our offer – as Mrs Prammer has already said – remains true to cooperation on energy partnership issues. We want to help the Czech Republic to develop and use renewable energy more effectively than before. We want to help the Czech Republic to significantly increase energy efficiency and to abandon nuclear installations alone for this reason. However, it remains clear to us that, following this decision of the Prague Government, the Czech Republic has almost deliberately made it difficult to join the European Union – I would say so. I think it also belongs to a fair neighborhood that we are sending a clear signal in this direction here and today, because now it is not too late, now you can still react and act. We believe that Temelin could be a serious obstacle to accession for the Czech Republic, and we are also clearly saying that it is a very serious concern for us – I mean all Austrian citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] It remains a rest of hope, when I think that the decision by 11 to 8 votes is hardly possible – I have already mentioned this – when I recall that Czech President Havel has clearly stated that he is an opponent of this project, considering that the Czech Trade Union Confederation is a critic of this decision. I therefore hope that the last word has not yet been spoken. In any event, we are convinced that Temelin is neither capable of EU security nor would be competitive economically in the European Union. – Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9380	Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for your comments. We are now going into the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9407	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The two reports have shown that much has actually been done on the part of the Austrian ministers. Only under the rule has nothing been achieved to this day – despite numerous declarations, especially government declarations by the then Chancellor Vrannitzky, who in 1990, 1994 and 1996 set the goal of freeing Central Europe of nuclear power stations in the centre of his government declaration. That is why today is also a good opportunity to take stock of how far this government has actually come with its efforts for a nuclear-free Central Europe. This is not a good record, Mrs. Minister! Mochovce has gone into operation despite all your efforts. At least we or you promised to take Bohunice off the grid when Mochovce goes into operation. I know that Bohunice is still in operation today, and, as you have said, Temelin stands shortly before commissioning. My dear, Mrs. Minister! Minister! In the best case, you can refer to the eight votes against. These eight votes against may be success of your efforts, only too few. Eleven ministers voted in favour – these were obviously not impressed by the efforts of the Austrian Federal Government to finally address the creation of nuclear power-free Central Europe. Finally, this has been expressed by your colleague-in-law. Mr Kuzvart said in the newspaper "The Press": As regards temelin, the Austrian side has never been pressured. In fact, we have not had the impression that it really means Austria very seriously with its efforts. - Quote. We do not need to be surprised if the Czechs do not take Austrian representatives seriously. No member of the government, no government party, nor the Greens and Liberals have followed a clear line in the matter of temelin, and I will prove it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my best memory – I do not want to go into it in detail – the iron dances of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are in Parliament. Mr Rauch-Kallat can certainly remember how the vote was taken at the time, on 13 March. November 1996, when the EU Parliamentary Flemming, Rack, Rübig, Stenzel, Habsburg and Pirker did not take advantage of the great historical opportunity to do something in the field of nuclear-free Europe. These Members voted clearly in favour of the use of nuclear energy. To the Flemming-Red of the 15th. In May, Mrs Rauch-Kallat will remember. At that time, Mrs Flemming said: Nuclear energy may be a very great opportunity for mankind, but we will still have to invest a lot of money and also time in research. It would be irresponsible, said Mr Flemming, not to want to develop this young technology further. - Of course! Who is to take such Austrian politicians seriously abroad if they act at once for the shutdown of a nuclear power station or for the non-commissioning of an nuclear power station? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even the greens drive a rather loose course here in the house in terms of anti-CFC policy. We have given you, you will remember, Mrs Moser, Mrs Langthaler, several times the opportunity to agree to a request from the liberals, whom we have literally taken over from the Upper Austrian Landtag and in which a clear position is taken: Here is the exit concept, and there is the Ok of Austria for the accession of the Czech Republic. . They did not want to support this request. The result is that you too will not be taken seriously on this issue. In the meantime, four requests from the liberals have already been rejected by the Social Democrats, the People's Party, the Liberals and the Greens. Four requests from the liberals had the content: Building stop Temelin, ensuring the exit concept and then starting the negotiations! – In the meantime, the negotiations have been started. But at least a veto would be necessary when the negotiations on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union were concluded. We are no longer alone with this demand, ladies and gentlemen, obviously. In front of an audience, Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State, also met on 14 May. May 1999 said: The safety standards of the Temelin nuclear power plant, which is also being built by international experts, could be an obstacle to the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU. - So Bartenstein. Minister for Consumer Protection Prammer: Clear message: No EU entry with scrap tractors! – Hannes Swoboda: The Czechs have distanced themselves from joining the European Union. If all this is really a matter of concern to you, what you always tell the public when it comes to not voting, ladies and gentlemen of all the other four parties, I ask you: What prevents you from having a resolution that has now been written and decided – it has been unanimously decided! – to be agreed here and today by the representatives of the Landtages of Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Salzburg and Vienna? – In this resolution of these four country days, which was unanimously decided, what the Czechs will understand is: Either Temelin does not go into operation or does not enter the European Union! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is what the four days of land have decided, and I am curious whether you will actually comply with the call made by these four days to the Austrian Federal Government. We will give you the opportunity to comply with this call here and today. I just want to add: The Lower Austrian Government has also tried in advance to decide on the following text: The Lower Austrian Government therefore considers the closure or construction stop to be an essential condition for the accession of the Czech Republic to nuclear power plants that are subject to safety deficiencies. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, we liberals are not alone with our requests: In the Land Governments, in the Land Days of All the Länder concerned, one is the same view as we Freemans have been here, and that has been the case for years. The four applications I have already mentioned show this. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again offering you the opportunity to take the only effective means, i.e. to accept the following motion for a resolution which I have tabled. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the liberal club, I will also take this position when we visit on 23. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9529	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Oberhaidinger has now been reported to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9553	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the comments of my predecessor, Mr Karl Schweitzer, I can say – in the alternation of a proverb – that: Nothing new with Schweitzer! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Since you spoke on this subject – just like your colleague Hofmann – you have always said it would do a lot, but nothing has been achieved. – That’s not true! You quoted Slovakia and Mochovce, and you know as well as I – everyone here in the hall knows – that Mečiar would not have been prevented from commissioning by any veto and junkim, as always. We all know that – and we have to admit it if we don't want to think about it. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There is no longer that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the changes in the Czech Republic on this issue, I do not believe that nothing has been achieved and that we are not being taken seriously, quite the contrary – it has already been mentioned twice by the government bank: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you say about the country decisions?]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Zickzack! Zickzack!]] With a very narrow majority, Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Council of Ministers has opted for further construction, and I am convinced that the last word has not yet been spoken on this question. Dear Anneliese! You can speak at any time. I do not have a short, yet time-limited speaking time, and I would like to make use of it. So I'm sorry I'm not going to get into a dispute with you on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have already discussed Temelin, Mochovce and the eastern nuclear power stations in this hall so often that it is necessary to chew back all the facts that have been brought in. It is rather a question of thinking about how we should proceed where we can put the political lever in the Czech Republic, at European level, after this actually narrow vote in the Czech Republic. I would therefore like to underline the content of my last press release on this subject again in this debate: We from the SPÖ are in all cases – government and also Parliament – to do everything and right now to prevent the construction of Temelin. This requires, first and foremost, international pressure, to increase the pressure of the European Union on the Czech Republic. [[Abg. Aumayr: Austria!]] – Please listen, you will learn everything I have to say. At European level, a Council of Ministers should be set up as soon as possible, on whose agenda is also the subject of Temelin, with the emphasis on radiation safety, ladies and gentlemen. It is, of course, a little more complicated than to sit down and just say no or to junctimate something. We make very specific demands: We do not say no, but the Czech Republic will only be able to join if the Western safety standards are met at Temelin. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] It costs either a lot of money, or Temelin will not go into operation, or the Czech Republic does not go to the European Union! This should be expressed in this form once. At the end of June, I believe that we will finally be in the Czech Republic at the very end of the discussion, which we, Mr Karl Schweitzer, are going to have, I am going to represent exactly this attitude and view, very unmistakably, but also with the necessary diplomatic sense that we must simply meet with our neighbours. The Council of Ministers should, as has been said, make a decision on Temelin's lack of safety. There are plenty of opinions on this, and I should like to remind you that in December, the EU Council adopted a conclusion stating that the applicant countries of Western European standards are required for their nuclear power stations. That's not just something! Secondly, it seems important to me that a further result is achieved in this Council of Ministers, namely the recognition of Temelin as a Stranded Investment – it is also about a great deal of money – in the form that the compensation payments start to flow immediately when the construction stop is made. That would also be an incentive to think in this direction. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we should not and should not let the bilateral talks end. I know from many press releases, but also because of direct information from the ministries, that very good, very intense discussions have been held at government level in recent weeks and months, and this has certainly contributed to rethinking in the Czech Government. At the parliamentary level, I hope that we will have a discussion in June in which we can bring our concerns and concerns to the Czech colleagues from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The expertise so often quoted confirms our concerns in terms of security as well as in terms of economic efficiency more than impressive. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that our common effort will enable us to convince our Czech neighbours of the accuracy of our thoughts and concerns. However, we will also have to make it clear to them that, if Temelin is to be further developed, great difficulties will arise for the Czech Republic's accession to the EU. Our interlocutors in the Czech Republic need to become more than clear about this in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9654	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Barmüller. [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: No sentence on the request, Mr Colleague.]] Total speaking time of the club: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9683	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to address purely abstract and a little theoretically the argument of EU accession or veto against the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU. This is a very common argument, but it is totally counterproductive for what we want to achieve. Why? – It is undisputed that Temelin cannot expect itself in the present situation and cannot be expected for the Czech Republic either. It only produces electricity in the base load sector, and this is also favourable within the European Union. In this area, the Czech Republic will only produce overcapacity. At present, however, the Czech Republic is completely free of internal market rules. It is not really exposed to competition in the electricity sector. There is no electricity market liberalisation in this area. Here too, the Czechs are completely free, they can make their own subsidisation. They are also not subject to the aid schemes that exist within the European Union. If the Czech Republic does not join the European Union, that means that we can get money out of the budget, as much as we want. However, if the Czech Republic joins the European Union, the Temelin plant will not be able to go to the network, because it will not be subsidized, and it will not be able to stop the electricity anywhere. In other words, if the Czech Republic is brought into the European Union and subject to the Internal Market Directives, the liberalisation of electricity and the strict aid schemes, that means that Temelin is proven to be unfinancial and economic nonsense. That is why we are also in favour of the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, because we see enlargement, Mr Schweitzer, not only as a major political project. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: They decide then also an ElWOG!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: They then decide on an ElWOG like us, after which the electricity can then be sold!]] That's a second point. But first of all, it is about the Czech Republic being subject to these rules when it joins the European Union and Temelin simply does not expect it. If you keep the country outside the EU, that means it can finance and shoot out of the budget as much as it wants. That is why we believe that, beyond the actual political project of enlargement, it makes sense to bring the Czech Republic to the European Union. First point. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] There is also a very fine difference between the argument made by Mr Schweitzer and our argumentation. The difference lies in the fact that Mr Schweitzer says: Only when the Czechs have been shown to have gone out and prove this at the time of accession will they be able to join. In fact, he says that they should not join, because it is perfectly clear that, in this situation, if it is to replace capacities – and in this context it is a matter of several nuclear power stations, here it is about making other changes – the support of the European Union for this changeover. However, such support will only be granted to the Czech Republic if it is a member of the European Union. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There are also enough pre-accession programs!]] As long as it is not really there, this will not be expected for the Czech Republic. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There are also pre-accession programmes!]] So if, as you are, Karl, we tell the Czechs that they must first prove their departure, and only then will we talk to them about whether they can even join and get the corresponding funding, then they will not be able to afford it. But if they can't afford it, they'll always stay outside. In doing so, you achieve what FPÖ wants to achieve, namely not enlargement of the European Union, because it generally rejects Easter enlargement. We say: Temelin does not meet Western safety standards! That's undisputed. In addition to the economic nonsense it represents, it does not meet the security standards. When the Federal Republic of Germany and the GDR united – at the time it was in truth – it could be said that the GDR joined the EU – the German security regulations were also applied to the East German nuclear power stations. These were the same East-AKWs at the time. And see: None of them went to the net! The reactor Stendal, comparable to Temelin, has been completely shut down at all. So if this is the case, then it would be useful to say: Firstly, we want the Czech Republic to do so, but its nuclear power stations must comply with Western safety standards. This has also been clearly formulated, and it creates a completely different atmosphere when we say that we want the Czech Republic in the European Union, but it simply has to remove the dangers posed by the Temelin nuclear power station. Now, of course, the Czechs can invest in summaries of money to achieve Western security standards. If they do, this already economically absurd project becomes even more absurd. That is why it is perfectly clear that this will not happen. However, if this does not happen, it is also clear that the Temelin nuclear power station cannot only be built up, but at least cannot be connected to the network. With this, we have achieved what we wanted, without acting in a division towards a sovereign state, as if we were saying: Ächi-bächi, you will not decide for yourselves at all now, because we Austrians know much better what is going on, and if you do not follow us, then we will put in the veto – although there is not even a majority of states in the European Union, which is for a general exit from nuclear power use. – This must be completely misunderstood in the Czech Republic! Therefore, there is really no difference in the goal, but in the division, in the way of action we have very probably a difference. One should not make it as easy on this question as you, Karl, have now done to you, so much to all, they do not want to get out of the world this safety risk, which the Temelin nuclear power station represents undisputed for Austria. That's an unfair argument. It may have become commonplace in this House – I am saying that it has become "common" because the government fractions are now joining it – but I do not think it makes sense. This brings me to the next point, which concerns me, and here I address Mrs Prammer and Mr Bartenstein. I very much welcome it, and the Liberals have accepted that there have been talks in which Mrs Prammer, Federal Minister, has informed us of what is happening in the negotiations with the Czech Republic. We would have liked to be invited by Mr Bartenstein to such talks, because it is simply interesting to hear the different views on this question, if they are different. The fact that nuances have to be there is indisputable, because it is correct that the Schweitzer Member has pointed out that it was the ÖVP MEPs in the European Parliament who have rejected the EURATOM Treaty. It was up to these seven votes, otherwise the EURATOM Treaty would have been amended today. This has not been done. It would therefore have been important to receive such an invitation from the Minister for the Environment. This has not happened. Now, however, I have to note that in the last discussions, in fact, not much new has been said, which has not already been said in the media, and then before the beginning of the meeting, we will also have a request from the government parties on the question of the construction stop on Temelin nuclear power plant, although we have always put this question to the attention of five-party regulations and have therefore often argued with the liberals about this - in the positive sense of the word - that they can be included in these requests, because we wanted to have a common position of the house! Now that the election campaign has begun, not only do the club people fall to the Bassena level, but it is also with the fact that one does not even talk about the opposition again and in reality simply throw away the much-conjured and often-lived five-party consensus on this issue here in the house without even talking about it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is the request, Mr. Scheibner? Where is the application?]] I'm telling you, that's exactly the way we're going with our Ideas against the Czech Republic will not be enforced. For you have not done this so far, Mrs Bundesminister, Mr Bundesminister, and you will not do so in the future. If it fails to act more offensively from the Austrian side – from the whole house – then this will not be successful. What you have formulated on claims in this two-party application SPÖ and ÖVP is not worth the paper on which it is written. You want an independent security assessment. Well, that's what we all want! But according to what scale this is to take place, it is not inside. They say that only the accession process will be adversely affected. They must also make it clear that failure to comply with the Western security standards, as decided by the Council, is a real obstacle. This must be clearly communicated. They are talking about the cost-truth in it, as if this were not the case at all, when it comes to distorting the market. Everything else is information activity. – Well, you could have done that so far! In reality, the request you have formulated here is therefore something you may need for the election campaign, but in the matter it is not useful. But that you are simply throwing away the five-party consensus we have had in this House on these questions and on which we have come, today, because you are funny and lurky, and not even asking whether there is a common position to do so, I tell you, beats off the ground to the barrel! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Because that you have already started to carry out a national election campaign through your club people today – and that, I say again, at a level that can only be described as a bassena level – and now do not perceive the opportunity to return to a common position on this question is simply and simply the wrong way! However, you must continue to expect from the Liberals, ladies and gentlemen, that we want an amendment to the EURATOM Treaty. We also want to know that at European level. We want insurance costs for nuclear accidents to be included in the nuclear power price, and, ladies and gentlemen, we also want final storage to play a role in this context. If we finally have competitive conditions in this field, the question of renewable energy sources is in competition with nuclear power...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9778	Please put the final sentence to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9793	In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we will not accept these statements by the Federal Minister and the Federal Minister, nor will we take note of the motion for a resolution. She'll give you a chance with your approach today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9824	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e9845	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The decision was taken on 12 February. In May 1999 it fell in Prague to complete the Temelin nuclear power plant is deeply unfortunate. At this point, it would have been possible to take a new direction on this issue. The conditions for this were never as good as now. It also has extensive preparations for this 12. May be given. We've known this for a few weeks. The Austrian Federal Government has provided an expert report, which has set up an expert group that has also submitted the relevant evaluations of this nuclear power plant, including a report by an Austrian lawyer on the possibilities to present the investment costs previously incurred as Stranded Investments in case of any EU accession. At the same time, this expert report points out not only the issue of safety issues but also, above all, the problem of European electricity surplus, as this oversupply also has an impact on electricity prices and on electricity demand in the Czech Republic. Knowing that this is an internal matter of the Czech Republic – and this was also an internal matter of the Republic of Austria, and you see it very well solved – but also knowing that a corresponding accident in Temelin is not an internal matter of the Czech Republic, but is deeply a matter of the whole of Europe, but above all of the affected areas in Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna, as we have seen in the Chernobyl disaster, we cannot indifferently oppose this decision. [[Abg. Aumayr: Lambach...!]] [[Call to the liberals:... because Lambach is also important!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Even the liberals are for this! It's talking around!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] It was therefore also very useful that, for example, a report by the Upper Austrian Anti-Atom Representative, Radko Pavlovec, who knows the situation very well and knows the language, for the first time succeeded in creating a rethinking of political opinion-makers and political decision-makers in the Czech Republic. Because of this report, for the first time a Christian Democrat in the Czech Republic was publicly opposed to this nuclear power plant for the first time a few months ago, for example at Christmas, and a discussion process has also taken place in the Czech Republic, which has at least led to five to six ministers of the 19-member ministerial regimes in the Czech Republic voting against the construction of the nuclear power plant. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Unfortunately, we know the result!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Eight ministers!]] In addition, the President of the Republic has also been able to change its position accordingly. I can still remember this very carefully: When President Havel was on an official visit to Austria – that was at the time when I was still an Environment Minister myself – I had two days before that in a press release, asked the Temelin nuclear power plant, saying that we will do everything we can to ensure that this nuclear power plant is not built. I was forced by the journalist to say what I would do if I did not listen to us, and then I said that one could show the teeth. Two days later I received the nickname "Miss Sharpteeth" from President Havel and his ambassador. I have him in a detailed letter before this decision on 12 February. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I also drew his attention to the fact that it was Austria that had finished a nuclear power plant and then had not put into operation, so it is absolutely no shame to become smarter. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This also applies to the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This applies to all of us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: especially for the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (the pointing finger pointing to the bank rows of the liberals) If you show this way, then three fingers always point to one!]] I was very pleased that President Havel made a public statement a few hours before the decision of the Czech Government – ladies and gentlemen, that would not have been possible months ago! – in which he clearly spoke against the Temelin nuclear power plant. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: And climate and klestil?]] Unfortunately, it has not been for a majority. However, eight ministers have succeeded in persuading it. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not enough!]] That's right, not enough. If only two had voted differently, the decision would have failed in our sense. I am therefore very sad that Mr President-in-Office of the Council did not succeed in convincing his group colleague Milos Zeman – he was calling him on the evening of the meeting – and that I have to tell the newspapers that Milos Zeman is alleged to have pressured his group and his ministers either to vote or to vote in favour of Temelin. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: That doesn't help!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... do what they all announce in their Sunday speeches!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: There is a government decision for the construction, Mrs Colleague!]] I therefore believe that a corresponding lobbying should take place in the Socialist International Group in order to ensure that there is a rethinking in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we shouldn't put the flint in the grain! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The match has not yet been lost, Mr Schweitzer. The match is not lost yet! Temelin is not finished yet, it would still cause enormous costs to complete it. I am very much in favour of demanding the highest safety standards in Temelin and not the minimum standards. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I would believe you wouldn't be Mochovce and Bohunice!]] The EIA MEPs in the European Parliament have also submitted a request to make this a consistent item of negotiation during the accession negotiations. Of course, we also need to continue lobbying and in the Czech Republic to promote awareness-building, because only with this lobbying will our project succeed. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is the condition!]] I very much regret that this request was obviously not voted with the groups of the opposition parties like all other requests. However, you are of course free to agree to him. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Nice, thank you!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Generous!]] I hope that this will be done very well in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, I am very much in favour of the Federal Government taking over the applications, the Landtags Decisions from Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Salzburg and Vienna and, on this issue, also representing a very clear line against the Czech Republic – in the neighboring sense, in the friendly sense.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10135	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10157	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now necessary to philosophise on what would have been if the government parties and the ministers of the government parties were to do before the 12. May have found as determined words and actions as is the case today. In this case, I think we could probably look forward to the success of Austrian anti-atomic policy in view of the relatively narrow decision-making results in the Czech Republic today. But as I said, it's necessary to philosophise about it. There has been an interruption of this policy. And if you are now writing about a continuation of Austrian anti-atomic policy, then I must say that is only one resurgence, if you want to call it that, which is obvious and obvious with the 13th. ==References== October has to do. And that is actually unfortunate, because in the meantime many opportunities have been missed and patched. Mrs. Federal Minister! In concrete terms, the Presidency has unfortunately done little to nothing to motivate the EU Member States towards a common exit approach with assistance and to make concrete offers to the Czech Republic and to the other candidate countries. If it's said today that climate has been on the phone with Zeman, I think: If it really is an Austrian question of life and survival – and as such it will see a lot of people; we see it this way from the Greens – then it would have been worth looking at Zeman personally and negotiating with him this topic, but not with a raised index finger and not with a "if, then" blackmail strategy, but with an extended hand and probably also with a very concrete offer of an exit aid. That would have been adequate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, Mrs Bundesminister, you know exactly that the Czech Foreign Minister had a government decision to make, and he had to summarise the attitude of the neighbouring countries in a report. But what has been delivered in this regard by Austrian side, I really think is blamable: a diplomatically suffocated paper, in which the clear demand for a construction stop is not included. This has probably significantly weakened our chances of success in this area! I also come to the two points, which I believe are at the heart of the problem, that there is the real mistake, which has caused this interruption of the Austrian anti-atomic line. That was, on the one hand, your constant mix of exit and security philosophy. In reality, the safety philosophy is the opposite of the exit philosophy, not a supplement. And because you did not want to engage with the German and French nuclear power industry during the Presidency, you have come from a very determined exit course, carried by all parties, to a standard safety course, with all the difficulties that this course has brought with you. - That was a cardinal mistake! That you are now again – late, but still – thinking on the exit concept, that comes after the 12. May plenty of late! I therefore ask you to: Return to an exit concept with assistance, with the extended hand and leave You will benefit from this nebulous course of safety standards, from which, in the end, only the German and French nuclear power industry will benefit! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: But there is still the Environment Minister, isn't there?]] It may be. But in a country where there is no nuclear power station thanks to the wisdom of the population, one can also take on a European pioneering role. For Austria, I would like the Federal Government to take over this pioneering role and not to focus on those countries which unfortunately have nuclear power stations and are faced with the whole difficulties of reorientation of the course. The second cardinal mistake, which I really blame you, Mrs Federal Minister, is – and it has already been mentioned – that you do not even try to achieve a five-party consensus beyond all the mistakes and omissions that have occurred. There was a conversation with the Members of this House yesterday, and I ask you: Why did you not find it worth the effort yesterday to say that a request from Members of the Government Party is being made here today? I suppose at least you were involved. If a small country is to have a pioneering role, it would be essential to involve all parties, especially those who have always pursued a clear anti-CFC course. You have left this course, and I think that unfortunately you are weakening the overall Austrian position. I think this is very bad, and it seems to have only to do with your profiling in the election campaign. But the nuclear theme is too bad for that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10213	Mr Brix is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10235	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The project of the Temelin nuclear power plant is characterised by "Dangerous and economically unprofitable". But believe me: We – and I hope everyone – are deeply upset at this issue! What I do not want – and I am not in favour of it – is that this will be highly stylized for all of us on a very serious issue and that some groups are now trying to take such an important and crucial issue for all of us. I don't think that's necessary! We should be honest with this issue, not like the very much appreciated Maria Rauch-Kallat, who accuses the Federal Chancellor of having done too little. I could now reply that it was, dear Maria Rauch-Kallat, who has telephoned with the current Prime Minister Zeman many times and has caused at least a few ladies and gentlemen of the Government in the Czech Republic to vote against the completion, so that there was no unanimous decision. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Apologize: But Zeman was for that!]] - Zeman was for that. But the German Chancellor climate has caused some to vote against it. The vote was not unanimous! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He was for it, and the others voted against him? After that's a logic!]] My dear colleague! Dear Mary! Think about it! Think of those members of the ÖVP – despite your newly defined word "Christian-social", I remain in the expression "Volks Party" – who sit in Brussels and have not always carried the clear anti-atomic line of Austria under the leadership of Mrs. Stenzel! You didn't just go there. There they would have had to profile that they could have stood up for it and represented this line! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's right!]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: EURATOM! Case EURATOM!]] I think it is a pity that we are fighting this issue – all of Austria is looking at how we behave here – in a polemic dispute, instead of finding and saying a common national consensus: We are against this power plant that threatens our habitat! There must be a national consensus on this, and the Austrian Federal Government must be supported as a whole! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that is an essential necessity. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: We could have formulated a joint motion for a resolution that would have looked better!]] Mr. Barmüller! Now once a game has been lost. But a championship extends over several games and goes over several rounds. The championship has not yet been lost, but only one game has been lost. That does not mean that we can't still achieve it, that we win this championship! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You already lose the second championship!]] I therefore believe, and I am right, Mr Schweitzer, that it will be essential that we address the Temelin nuclear power plant in the accession negotiations to the European Union. We need the Temelin issue at the top of the agenda during the accession negotiations! We won't be able to injunctify it, it's already been said today. Because even if we say you don't have to join when you build Temelin, the Czechs will still build it, whether we want it or not. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did Häupl decide, your boss, Mr. Mayor Häupl?- Oh, my God!]] – Yes, yes, I am already with him, no question! That is why we will have to address Temelin. It must be an essential request from us, which is on the top of the agenda during the negotiations of the Czech Republic on accession to the European Union, that we should discuss the issue of the Temelin chapter. That must be called upon by us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this could help to win the championship and make this match that we lost now. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: But that was a decisive match!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: It's not even softer!]] This is our proposal, and I would ask you to pursue this national consensus, a joint approach against the Temelin power plant here. I would like to see no one here in the Chamber but to see everyone doing so, so that this nuclear power plant cannot be built.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10455	The request just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. The total speaking time of the club is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10479	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! They have just heard the request submitted by the red and black government coalition – a more request that reflects the government's attitude. This request is soft and the questions arise: How do you want to enforce point 1? How to Give You're reprinting the security assessment you want? Does the safety assessment of the nuclear power plant succeed, as you have said, Mrs Bundesminister, West German standards? What about economics? Do you believe that the power plant, which is already proven to be economic – and the Czechs know this – will not go into operation if you prove an even higher inefficiency, and that everything will turn to the better? Or do you trust that the Czechs are willing to allow the EIA procedure as it is, in order to prevent Temelin from entering the market? Mr Oberhaidinger said that Mečiar did not use anything, that Mečiar would have put Mochovce into operation anyway. This is a statement according to the motto: "Who knows what when would have been if...!" However, this cannot be said with certainty. The fact is that a junkimation with the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, as we have called for it to be, was rejected in this House by Red, Black, Green and Liberals. But I am glad that Mr Oberhaidinger did not come back to us today with the energy industry and energy policy as a national issue. Thank God you saved us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The security of our country is not a question of the nationality of the Czech energy supply, and in the event of an accident nobody asks us whether this is perhaps the case in the Czech national sector. So I note, Mr. Oberhaidinger, you're a real "hardliner" – a "hardliner" in maintaining the soft line of the socialists with the support of their government partner, the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I'm right to give you the following: You have found in your statement that this decision by the Czech Government was a failure by eleven votes to eight. You, Mrs Bundesminister, have called for the determination of the Federal Government. That's exactly what we're asking for! They have also put into play the friendly relationships. We too believe that friendly relations with the Czechs are desirable! Therefore, it is not until it is too late for the Czechs to point out that they are in error by putting this power plant into operation, but a clear line is needed now! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The NGOs – Global 2000, Greenpeace – are now also for junk simulation. Lower Austria, Upper Austria, the Landtages of Salzburg and Vienna, they are all for a junk animation. There is a protest note from Lower Austria and, ladies and gentlemen, there is a unanimously adopted resolution of the Upper Austrian countryside – you hear and marvel! - from 1997. When we liberals introduced this motion for a resolution here in this House and submitted it for decision, you were all against it and prevented a decision to this end. Also the Upper Austrian and Energy Speaker of the Socialists, my friend Georg Oberhaidinger, was against it, all of you were against it. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Also Oberhaidinger? There's no such thing as that!]] And I can still remember very well the hard words you said to us at the time! In the meantime, there is a change of mind, and you too, Mrs. Prammer, have heard of you not too long ago – to read in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten"; I quote: "From a veto against the accession of the Czech Republic, Prammer doesn't hold anything." I am a little calmer because of your position in the conversation you took yesterday, because you have made it quite clear: You have to tell the Czech in good time! That is why we have tabled this request. We can ask you to support this request and not to fall back into the mistakes of the past. Mochovce and the commissioning of this power plant should remain unique.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10536	Mr Sauer has also been mentioned on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10557	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! For one who lives directly on the Czech border, of course, the concern of the population in this region is all the more apparent when this power plant is first built and the second is put into operation. I am rarely of the same opinion as Mrs Petrovic, but in this sensitive area I do not want to refer to European standards that this power plant should have. Instead, the Czech Government must be given the opportunity to get out of nuclear energy from this nuclear policy. The country of Lower Austria, in particular, wanted to make a very important contribution to this: In many areas of technology, aid has been offered to enable the transition from this nuclear power plant to a power plant that can heat renewable raw materials. An exit concept has been developed. Landesrat Blochberger only offered the Czech Government yesterday to provide assistance so that electricity can be generated in this power plant from wood and various other renewable raw materials. But you can only help if the other one accepts the help. And we all hope that the other one, the neighbor, will accept our help. If today the Foreign Minister has clearly stated in his opinion that the issue of nuclear power plants will be an integral part of the negotiations for the accession of our northern neighbours to the European Union, then this is certainly a given path. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I expect a neighbor to respect the basic rights of the neighbor, but he also takes his concerns seriously. And we're worried! If we think of Chernobyl, then these concerns are very great, and if you live 40, 100 or perhaps a few 100 kilometres away from a nuclear power plant, you do not make a big difference, because in an accident the environmental disaster extends to the entire area. Let us do everything we can to prevent environmental disasters in the nuclear field, and help our northern neighbours to get out of nuclear policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10598	Mrs Aumayr has also been mentioned. 1 minute remaining time for your club will be shown with me! So that is the length of the final sentence. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10625	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! The Czech Republic's voting behaviour is important and interesting, but much more interesting and important is how the Austrian Federal Government is now responding to this vote result in the Czech Republic. You from the Federal Government, ÖVP and SPÖ, have the duty to make a policy that guarantees the safety and health of the Austrian population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Cross-border nuclear power stations endanger the health and safety of the Austrian population. A federal government that is unable or unwilling to prevent a threat is grossly negligent! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: This is the Austrian Federal Government, not the Czech!]] Mrs. Minister! A fictitious examination of Temelin according to German safety criteria is simply not a substitute for a junkimization with the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU. Her opinion, Mrs Minister, that all Member States of the EU should refuse to agree to the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU, is an exaggeration from political responsibility. This falls under...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10664	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10679	... the "political cowardice" category, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Sweamlein: The speaking time is over! It's high time you stopped! And you're kidding me!]] The Austrians were declared before accession to the EU, even a small country can...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10709	Please put the final sentence to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10724	I am at the conclusion, Mr President. – The Austrians were told before accession to the EU that even a small country could participate in the European Union, because it was the principle of unanimity. And you, Mrs Federal Minister, will have to use this principle of unanimity if you do not want to endanger the health and safety of our coming generations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10754	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10776	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! [[The speaker holds a T-shirt with the inscription "Atomkraft? No thanks!" to the height.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hopefully this has not been made in child labour!]] Under this sign, under this decision of the Austrian population, this Federal Government has taken action to make anti-CFC policy: Atomic power? No thanks! [[The speaker put the T-shirt on the speaker's desk, covering the red flashlight.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hopefully the colors are environmentally friendly!]] Unfortunately, what you have brought together or operated in the Temelin issue of anti-CFC policy does not correspond to that attitude of the population, yes, even contradicts it. The balance sheet has already been drawn. There have always been decisions in this House to act together against Temelin. You, Mrs Minister and Mr Minister, have, I admit, made a fair effort in the second series, but the failure is at the highest level to locate in the chief days. The failure of the Austrian anti-CFC policy is called climate and bowl! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The current situation is also due to this inadequate initiative, to this lack of commitment to anti-atomic policy. What are you doing today, Mrs. Minister? – They announce that there will now be a detailed action programme. It is not yet fixed, but there may be an Austrian action programme – now, at a time when the Czech Government has already decided! Mr Bartenstein! You have today assessed the situation in the Czech Government, you have also said that clear signals need to be made. I'm just asking: Which signals are you setting? They are now setting – after the decision of the Czech Government! – for the first time clearly the rod in the window and say that this would make it difficult to join the EU. Why didn't you say that in all the clarity before? In the past, Foreign Minister Schüssel said that there were doubts about safety standards and that the power plant should be considered in principle. Now, after the Czech government has decided, the "Kronen Zeitung" can be found that Foreign Minister Schüssel means – I quote literally –: Now it is necessary to set clear signals. The Czech Republic has made its way to the EU with this decision. - Quote. Now, after this decision, it is said by the Schüssels, the Czech Republic is building its way into the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The red light shines!]] Why didn't you say that before? Why didn't you say the consequences, the clear words before? Why didn't you show any alternative perspectives before? The only positive alternative perspective was the Action Plan for the cooperation of Austrian and Czech alternative energy experts. That was the only positive issue! But they have failed with the others, unfortunately in the construction stop actions. When Mrs. Col. Rauch-Kallat says: We do not care about this decision, and if the colleague speaks of the SPÖ of a lost match, then what has now happened in the Czech Republic will be devalued, then it will still not be taken seriously enough, and then you will rely in the final effect on an EU which has not been able to adopt general security standards. And you rely on an EU that has at least prescribed Lithuania to turn off a power plant, namely the Ignalina power plant, otherwise an accession would be excluded. Why has not exactly the same clear and clear language been used against the Czech Republic? Why do you lead as Minister?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10853	Mrs. Colleague! The red lamb shines!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10868	...not now, too, this argumentation in the meeting? I would like to make the following clear again: They usually take only half steps in this area, make poor preparations and are often only half-hearted in the matter. Above all, you make...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10890	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since the red lamb you can't see shines up, I would like to ask you for the final sentence. They also wanted to put forward a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10905	That is why we need to make the following proposal, which is a little stronger: [[Quoted print version removed]] Again, it will be the Austrian population, it will be the individual citizens who will raise their concerns with the EIA. Again, as a government, you will raise your concerns...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e10960	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time is over! [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We are now coming to some votes, and I therefore ask you to take your seats. First of all, let me vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades on nuclear power plants and EU Easter enlargement. If you would like to accept this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr Ellmauer and Mr Comrades on the continuation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy on the construction of the Temelin nuclear power plant. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. (E 178.) Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser and Comrades on construction stop AKW Temelin. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11043	I will now resume the negotiations on item 1 on the 1998 Federal Government's foreign policy report. Mr Wabl has not given up on the continuation of his remarks. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the vote. We first come to the vote, the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report III-192 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Chambermen and comrades with regard to Austrian efforts to secure a ceasefire without conditions. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Mr Kammerlander and Mr Comrades on the further development of the CFSP. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. This request has been accepted. (E 179.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gredler, Mr Jäger, Mr Amon, Mr Mag. Kammerlander, Smolle, Dr. Povysil and comrades on the inclusion of the topic of mutilation of female sexual organs in the foreign policy report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. . I note that this request has been unanimously adopted. (E 180.) The agenda item 1 is therefore cut off. I am now interrupting the negotiations and will resume them at 3 p.m. Negotiations are interrupted. (The sitting was suspended at 14.57 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11166	I'm going to start the interrupted trial again. Short debate on the reply to the question 5609/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11193	We are now entering into a brief debate on the reply of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to the question with the order 5609/AB. The above-mentioned answer is already distributed. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. We are going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to the time-limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure: 10 minutes for the first speaker, 5 minutes for all other speakers. Declarations from the German government should not exceed 10 minutes. The first speaker was Mr Mag. Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11228	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not easy to be economic ministers in Austria in times of electricity market liberalisation in Europe and to bear political responsibility for all the adjustments or adjustments that have not been made. Mr Minister, I understand! But your answer to the questions relating to the Treaties between the Association Society and the Illwerke has raised further questions that I would like to discuss with you here and today. I hope that you will be able to respond quite comprehensively. It is remarkable to note in your reply to item 8 of the question that, with the liberalisation of the European electricity market, a significant price decline in electricity has occurred and that no major producer in European competition, now subject to all market conditions, can now rely on protected prices. Therefore, in this context, apply to the contracts with the Illwerke the hardness clause. They say: Today, a electricity price of a maximum of one third of the price to be paid by the association to the Illwerke is to be achieved. This means, in the international electricity market, that it can be achieved at a price of about 30 sizes per kilowatt hour. So far, so good. Federal Minister! But now you note that electricity is extremely cheap across Europe and, at the same time, we are faced with the situation that the ElWOG, which has seen the light of the world in your ministry, is excluding all Austrian merchants from this electricity market liberalisation or the possibility to actually benefit from this electricity market liberalisation, says in future to pay a low electricity bill. Their law excludes Austrian citizens from taking part in the liberalized electricity market and, through § 69, obliges the state providers to buy the extremely expensive electricity at the joint venture. This § 69 may even be EU-absorbing. Minister! Now I come to my first question. They know just as I do the famous judgment from Germany, in which the Mannheimer Landesgericht has invalidated the existing contract of reference between the state energy supplier Baden-Württemberg and the Swabian Stadtwerk Waldshut-Tiengen. This is the result of the fact that this city can now obtain much cheaper electricity from neighbouring Switzerland, because the contracts that should ensure that this city has to buy from the state company over a longer period of time are obsolete. I believe that this German example is also applicable to Austria. In our case, too, we are dealing with contracts between the Landesgesellschaft and the interlocutory company, which, in my view, are far too high in terms of prices. I believe that, just as in Germany, these contracts are illegal and therefore obsolete, thus creating the possibility for the purchasers to finally enter into the enjoyment of electricity market liberalisation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When it comes to securing the union, you say: The liberalisation of the electricity market no longer permits the high prices laid down in the Treaty between the Illwerke and the Association. This calls for electricity market liberalisation, for applicable EU law. However, when it comes to giving the same opportunities to the payers, draw their own sections into the ElWOG in order to prevent this. Now I ask you: How do you view this § 69 in the light of the judgment of the Mannheimer Landesgericht? It is remarkable, Mr Federal Minister, if you would then come to the public with an idea – and I would have liked to hear your opinion – which is why you say that you want to combine the 2 500 buildings owned by the Federal Government into a large customer and thus come into the enjoyment of the lower prices of electricity market liberalisation even before the deadline set by you in the ElWOG. Federal Minister! To do so, you are scrutinizing your own law and proving that you yourself do not believe that this is a good law. How else can one come to the idea of dealing with what is pre-contained by pooling all 2,500 federal buildings into a large customer? Federal Minister! From this point of view, what do you think of thinking to say: Now, as many households as necessary are creating a community of interests, including large-scale customers, and also trying to skip the barrier established in the ElWOG in order to get into the enjoyment of electricity market liberalisation!Unknown term type: "%s".? Federal Minister! Of course, their consideration must also be applicable to households. Then: What is the difference between a household and a federal building? What is the difference between the combination of 2,500 federal buildings and a large customer and the establishment of a community of interests as "energy users", which then also require more than 40 gigawatt hours in total per year? I think there is no difference. But your course of action, which you show in these questions, shows that you interpret the law in this way once and for all – always in the light of the point of view: Where does it help me or where does it help the union, where does it help the League best? Federal Minister! As regards electricity market liberalisation, its operation is that of: It then, if at last the citizens also have the opportunity to benefit from Austria's accession to the EU, to make a law in Austria in order to prevent that from happening. Although the Austrian citizens may pay a long time for all that Austria has to deliver towards Brussels – we have now had to take a number of savings packages – but when it comes to finally, for the first time, even the individual citizen can benefit from EU accession, then in Austria, a law will be balanced in your ministry and then decided here by the majority in order to prevent exactly that. Mr Federal Minister, you should be clear that you have not made great friends with most people for the forthcoming election. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! My questions are: In your opinion, how does this Mannheim judgment affect the Austrian situation, in particular § 69 in the ElWOG? How do you understand your proposal – I would like to be explained by you – to bundle the 2,500 federal buildings into a large customer? Should it really be possible – also due to the existing ElWOG – that the federal government will buy cheaper on the international electricity market, how do you consider the procedure to judge that one is going and says: For reasons of interest, we see that we get over the required number of gigawatt hours, and we also buy on the free electricity market!Unknown term type: "%s".? – I say: What one will be allowed would also have to be allowed to do with the other. I would have liked to know your position. Federal Minister! That the electricity will be cheaper on the international market, you have known before you have concluded the Illwerk contracts. Now here the hardness... – You knew that especially when they were included in the ElWOG. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That is why I do not think it can be said that on the one hand, you are applying the hard-duty clause in order to stand out from a contractual obligation, but on the other hand, you continue to consider the high electricity prices to the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11320	Mr Oberhaidinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11341	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Where, ladies and gentlemen, are the times when the liberals still had an energy speaker named Prinzhorn, an expert who really knew himself? Now I must say to the addresses of the liberals: I really don't know who's still familiar with you on energy issues. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Do you know yourself?]] At least I'll try. I've been talking about it for two years, with a tongue. At least three of you talk about it, and everyone speaks of something else. [[Abg. Scheibner: None of you understands anything about it!]] The longer you talk, the more you contribute to confusion in the anyway somewhat complex matter. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... not under control!]] So it would be really good, my dear colleague Schweitzer, if you could read through the ElWOG once – it won't hurt you, it's a rather interesting reading – because we both knew what we're talking about or what we're talking about. Unfortunately, this is not the case. You haven't read it until today. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Reading through is not enough! You also need to understand what's inside!]] You have not read it to this day, for otherwise you would know, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals that we have raised the Illwerke Treaty in § 70 ElWOG in the constitutional rank, so that this treaty is in all cases unaffected by the ElWOG. [[Abg. Scheibner: Abuse of the Constitution!]] And what was agreed between the two parties – Illwerke on the one hand, connected on the other hand – is a contract like any other. There are different views: One of the Contracting Parties says: We... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So what?]] Of course, there are different views. It would be the first time that the two parties would always be the same in a contract for years. – The link says: The framework conditions have been changed! – This is a fact: They've been changed. The prices now achieved by the association are partly not the same as they existed before the ElWOG came into force in February. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The households know this!]] – One has nothing to do with the other. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The problem with you is – that is, when you listen to it – that you are constantly comparing twigs with pears, and that is not acceptable. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh, God!]] But you have addressed a number of additional questions to the Minister. I am convinced that he can answer them. I'll tell you: Your speech certainly had nothing to do with the answer to the question. This is about the Illwerke Treaty and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you questioned the whole ElWOG. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There's nothing to question!]] There has already been an opportunity in this House several times, and we can still do so. I like to discuss with you, but I would ask you to read you in the ElWOG before, so that we know what we're talking about – not you about tweezers and me about pears. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you also talk about Zwetzken!]] Let's talk about the ElWOG! One can talk about the way in which the union has been done, but the fact is that there is a board of directors in connection with the law of the stock, and then, when he sees that he can no longer redeem the prices and nevertheless has to pay correspondingly higher prices under a contract. The fact that he had to act in the way he acted is that he simply made payments is another question. But that is what the two contracting parties are supposed to do with each other, which is not our business, neither the legislator's business nor, as I believe, the owner's business. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner shakes his head in no way.]] You might be in the Supervisory Board... – Mr. Ofner, you are a lawyer, you know exactly what the share law looks like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Let's move there... – Yes, okay. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I am a trained power generator with ten years of practice!]] This will certainly benefit you in this case, but you will still have to read the law. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're reacting from behind!]] But I suppose you've read it. I can't remember both of us becoming you sometime. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Oh, my God!]] But I'm fine. I can't remember, so please stay with you. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The mistake will never happen to me again that I am with you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. "Baron" Oberhaidinger!]] As I said, you won't be able to read the ElWOG. But I suppose you've read it anyway. I would be very interested in a contribution from you. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that both contracting parties – both joint and Illwerke – are ready to talk. There is a willingness to talk from both sides, and I was told that they are not going to need a judge at the moment. But this has very little to do with the ElWOG. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What you say!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11597	Mr Feurstein has also been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11618	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only emphasize: Mr Schweitzer has totally missed the subject. Ladies and gentlemen! No one claims that the contract between the union and the Illwerke has become obsolete, neither a minister nor the country of Vorarlberg nor the Illwerke nor the group, no one claims it. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Only the head of state!]] Mr Kier is not very well-seen by the Vorarlberger Illwerke either. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Oh!]] I could tell you what difficulties At the time, they made them a representative of the ministry during the negotiations. You were there in 1983 when you worked with Dr. Steger. But I do not want to talk about that, ladies and gentlemen, namely the attitude of Dr Kier in terms of the economy. What you did in that regard at the time was not very exemplary, Mr. Dr. Kier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is only about the fact that the group claims to pay too much for the electricity it refers to and nothing else. There's a clear contract. The group, ladies and gentlemen, has voluntarily entered these purchasing rights. The purchasing rights were owned by Rheinisch-Westfälische Elektriekswerke AG. As has been said, the group has voluntarily entered into these purchasing rights in 1988, at the time a very favourable contract has been negotiated – well-known: a very favourable contract – because the association also received management rights from Bürs to the Swiss border in order to be able to operate with Swiss trade. The Treaty was, as has been said, favourable. And now it is suddenly claimed by the group that the rules on the calculation of prices – nothing else at all – are no longer adequate, and the group demands the application of the hard core. We say the following, ladies and gentlemen: There are phases in which a contract is cheaper for the partners and there are, in turn, phases in which a contract is less favourable to the partners. That is the essence of every contract, and the joint venture, the group has to comply with the contract. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the best way that the joint group adheres to the contract. It has already been made clear that the retained payments since February 1999 have been paid back or repayment of this amount of 10 million schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The head of state has authorized it!]] The group has also agreed to continue to pay. I also say quite clearly: If the group wants a new contract to leave the contract, we are ready to negotiate as owners of the Vorarlberg Illwerke about the withdrawal of the group. The other contracting partners of the Illwerke do not want it. I recall the electricity plants in Baden-Württemberg, which are very likely to pay – perhaps not liked – the price that has been negotiated, which has been set out in the Treaty. After all, more than 50 percent of the electricity of the Illwerke goes to Baden-Württemberg. There are no problems. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Numbers but the same price!]] I recommend to you, Dr. Kier, and to all those who want to work with the Illwerke, more materiality, more correctness and less hostility to the country of Vorarlberg! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Less Vorarlberg-Chauvinism!]] I know, Mrs Langthaler, that you are also one of those who always look jealously towards the West. I have to leave this envy to you. I'd love to leave this envy to you. But for us: In relation to Vorarlberg, one has to argue objectively, correctly, honestly, and then we are also correct contractors. We will certainly respect the Treaty correctly in every way, but we reject the fact that the group continues to oppose its hostility.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11719	Mr Ing. Nut trees. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11740	Mr President. Federal Minister! The last two debates have led me to make a few clarifications. Mr Oberhaidinger! You have given an answer which is not in line with the reply of the Federal Minister in his reply to the question. I am going to have to talk about it at the time of the explanatory statement. But above all, you did not want to link this answer to the liberalisation of the electricity price. However, this is to be linked, and I also want to talk about it. Mr Feurstein – I agree with him; I am here in the same boat, we are also defending the interests of the Vorarlberger Illwerke – says that no one is questioning the contract between union and Illwerke. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: He's absolute!]] - Yes, absolutely. I just ask why the union did not pay the said 70 percent of the invoice. Now he has paid, but perhaps only after we have made this request. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: So please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Here you go!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That is quite possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a strong self-esteem!]] Federal Minister! The answer you have given to my question is as contradictory as the entire energy policy that the Federal Government operates and is as contradictory as the ElWOG law itself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have not considered the ElWOG Treaty necessary in many areas: We have warned of the EU's illegality, we have warned – and this is clearly your objective – of the fact that this supply contract, which is raised in the constitutional rank, to the detriment of one or the other contractual partner, we have also warned, Mr Oberhaidinger, that there will be no benefit without a common network company and the strongest competitive steps, neither for electricity producers nor for electricity customers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger]] We have, in particular, pointed out to the ÖVP that, with the existing ElWOG, it undermines the competitiveness of producers as much as it prevents electricity providers from entering into the enjoyment of European energy liberalisation. I am now used to offering Austria's economy on the throne of European social democracy. Now, however, the ÖVP also shows this attitude. Your conscience, Mr Federal Minister, has therefore very flattered in this reply to the question. I first pointed out the danger of the removal of the Illwerk-Verband-Shipping Treaty, before and during the ElWOG negotiations. They have rejected this. Experts have pointed out the lack of EU conformity. They have also rejected this. Now the union has begun to pay all the bills of the Illwerke with reference to the hard-clausels, and I have therefore spoken in my request of the lifting of the contract. Three times in your reply, however, you have questioned this crime – you have calmed your conscience yourself – but still in the same breath confirmed my thesis by They say: "No major producer in European competition, now subject to all market conditions, can rely more on "protected" prices; the granting of state price aid is Community-wide, unless provided for in Article 24 of the Internal Electricity Market Directive. From these market conditions, which apply to all" - I am referring to them -"European producers can also not be excluded and will therefore also have to try to achieve competitive producer prices." [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: These are not protected prices, these are contractually agreed prices!]] - That's your answer. To do this, we need to know the Treaty. The contract provides that the association decreases 24 percent of the Illwerk power and the price is based on the costs of the Illwerke plus profit margin for the Illwerke owner, Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Yes, exactly!]] Federal Minister! Please, what is it other than a relief when a price agreement is changed in the price range? Minister! They can think many people are naïve, but the Vorarlberg population will not be so naïve, but it will understand that the Vorarlberger Illwerke have been led behind the light with the help of the ÖVP – that is what I must say here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The damage lies with the country of Vorarlberg and its citizens because it is the price for the buyback...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11863	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11879	... has fixed on the basis of the priced supply contract and the expected dividend has provided the basis for the purchase financing. And that's the problem, Mr. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11900	Please put the final sentence to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11915	Likewise, the results of Austrian economic policy, but also the results of the Austrian pro-porz system, with which you do not actually represent the concerns of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11946	Mr Farnleitner has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e11967	Mr President. High house! If, according to the logical ideas I have learned, I am going to sum up, then Mr Nußbaumer said in his first sentence: The country of Vorarlberg must continue to have the right to produce electricity by 1.10 s, and the association must buy it and deliver it to consumers at a reasonable price, so that Mr Schweitzer, too, is right. This is a formula that I cannot see in this way, so two or three things have been established at the beginning. First of all: The Illwerke have a contract with the joint venture. The joint venture is a stock company in which the company is not managed by the 51 percent owner, but rather by a board of directors which is directly responsible to the Supervisory Board. It is quite clear that in a scenario of the European price landscape, in 1988, when the contracts were concluded, the economic researchers also predicted Austria's energy scarcity and very rising prices, there were many things under the title "security of supply" – from the natural gas contracts to the Illwerke Treaty. Now, even without the foreseeable pressure, in all these contracts to Nagymaros, there are necessarily clauses, called hardness clauses that can be talked about in the event of a substantial change in market conditions. Otherwise, there would have been no arbitration clause. What else would you have talked about? That they supply the electricity they have promised, I assume. - That's the first finding. Second finding: There has been discussions on the Board of Directors of the Association Society from the outset that this company, which is the only Austrian electricity company to be affected by liberalisation, has to take care of prices in the sourcing of its supply, which are such that it does not get into loss situations. That is why we have laid down in the law: The contract continues to apply, the hard-leaf clause is normal law. The board of directors has tried to get into discussions, and it is not my fault or any other person here that the board of directors has come to the view - in Austria companies apply a lot of facets to each other in payment payments; I would be surprised if this hadn't done to your former company – to try to talk about payment pressure. Now this pressure has been exerted by the interlocutory society. I was alarmed by the country and – and this has not really got to do with your request – told the Board of Association that you would be smartest, that you would sit down and talk about the idea of a financially paid exit from the contract, which was also brought by Vorarlberg. In the moment when this willingness was explained, the remaining payments were also made by the joint venture. Therefore, at the moment we are talking about a contract-compliant behaviour of both partners, and there will now be talks about whether the association is buying out of these services, because there is no prospect of ever again achieving a price scenario – clausula rebus sic stantibus, of course – as this contract was used at the time. - So much for it. I can also address the other questions. First: We have decided on the ElWOG here in a way that goes slightly beyond the EU average, because it is about the fact that in Austria industry prices are located in the upper third of the European price scale, while consumer prices are located in the lower third of the European price comparison scale. Through the Austrian price system, the manufacturing industry and, in part, the industry have been burdened in favour of consumers for decades. Therefore, there was the greatest economic need for action in favour of competitiveness at industrial prices. I should like to remind you that I said from this place: I do not think that the long-term liberalisation period is going to last, because too much is beginning to break away in the economy. I also said that I believe that the consumer's right to vote must be possible as early as the next period. Two information to the Hohe Haus: At the last meeting of the Energy Ministers, an interim report - I am answering it - was given on the liberalisation implementation, according to which 60 percent of European consumers have already been fully liberalised. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is not an answer to our questions!]] 60 per cent in the area of the European Union! I believe that this would be very reasonable – to mention a case that shows that it is perhaps a little difficult, namely, when a federal state mobilises a regional electricity company heavily against Temelin, but at the same time buys Bavarian nuclear power in large quantities; these are funny things that we have experienced in the meantime and from which many can learn – and I stick to them: [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because it is involved!]] If this is true of the European Union – and I say again, it speaks a lot for it – I believe that this would be wise, especially in times when we are feeding energy resources that are not always available at the market price, but for which the consumer, because he wants renewable energy, is willing to pay a higher price at all times, because he wants water energy and not energy A, B or C. This can be a very reasonable answer to the reasonable survival strategy of hydropower in Austria. Next question: To what extent does § 69 apply the German judgment? – I have to say very briefly: In view of the Austrian historical equation, the combined society was the Austrian solution of a central energy generation, with the countries "outsourced" their entire risk to the federal government. It was true that through various bonds, through the debt strategies of the association – almost at the federal level – the amounts of electricity that had to be financed by the construction costs were produced. In order to finance these long-term construction costs, there were also coordination and supply contracts. This is, in itself, a very reasonable system, and it will apply exactly the same thing that now applies to the Illwerke Treaty: Those who do not comply with long-term contracts with the pre-financing function must then consider alternative solutions to pre-respective exit funding. And the second point: Let us not assume that all the quantities of electricity traded today at spot prices in Europe can be used to provide sufficient basic Austrian supplies. But I stay – again! – with: The joint venture was the central Austrian electricity supply solution. The countries have also expanded, but the essentials have gone over the union. In the longer term, the hydropower of the energy sources of the future in Europe is in all new cost estimates, which are also directed towards nuclear energy. There is therefore no reason to pour the child out of this turbulence of the transition from one system to another. So an Austrian judge could not judge as a German judge if you allowed me to say that. In the last discussion with my new Swedish colleague for energy policy, I learned that in Sweden, in the meantime, trade unions are concluding contracts for the supply of electricity to their members. That is to say, the scenario is in such a rapid flow that I still assume that the Austrian energy landscape will be faced with a completely different scenario in the next legislative period and that the ElWOG will probably have to be changed. Now I come to the last question: the federal government as a questioner. We said in the Committee on Savings, which we established in the course of the tax reform on behalf of the government, that the federal government as a large customer should be able to get on the market on the telephone as well as on electricity those prices that receive a comparable large customer. I am a lawyer enough to know that, if there is no voluntary action, this is not possible without legal regulations. And I don't get out of the economy, I don't know that this demand at the same time means that any cooperative demand for others should be treated equally, because otherwise we clearly have one... – I don't need any suggestions, we know that in the meantime. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For every household!]] That's with one of the thoughts that says: If the federal government gets this, companies can get it the same way, then consumers will have to be able to get the same. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In answer to questions not related to this question, we will therefore have to deal more often than you believe in the next steps of reform and implementation. The first step, however, was the most difficult! A regulatory system with strong vested interests, which has been in existence for 150 years – as we can see from the request – cannot be smashed with a blow if one does not want to have great trouble at the same time. But the fact that the time horizon of the reform has been shortened has shown itself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12038	Mr Dr Kier has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12116	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If what you have said, Mr Federal Minister, were everything so feasible against the background of the political landscape, then it would be nice. – You know what I mean. I would like to start by referring to colleagues Feurstein, but also to colleagues Nußbaumer. You, Mr Feurstein, have made an economic revelation here. You have described how you imagine planning in times of the European Union and market liberalisation. I think that's interesting. Unfortunately, Mr. Nußbaumer has also had to drive a little slalom here; a slalom between the need, the country of Vorarlberg and its head of state, Mr. Sausgruber, who apparently manages the business of the Illwerke and the VKW – otherwise he would not act – to consecrate immediately to it. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: He's the owner!]] – Yes, he is the owner, I know that, but the Illwerke are also a stock company, and usually the shareholders are not going to negotiate at the front, but the board of directors. But perhaps he has no confidence in his boards, or he has nothing else to do and does it very much. I don't know; it's strange anyway. In the old state-trading countries of the East, the same was true: This was the subject of negotiations with foreign trade ministers, and the companies did so. – In Vorarlberg, this is still the case. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Then there must be a contract!]] After all, this is very interesting, and it has, I would say, a certain joyous value. Because you mentioned the year 1983: I can't remember exactly, I just know that I met Director-General Reich at the time – the name will tell you something; I still have a warm relationship with him today – and he has told me a lot about the Illwerke; also about their past, also about the forced labour problems in the Illwerke, also about the sustainable participation of the Fin-Electra, which has already financed in the 1930s – you know what I mean – and the latter... – a Swiss society, of course, but please also the ruling circles in the Third Reich, that Switzerland is a "tax port" where you can park money; it's not that it was unknown – and it has been financed here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But your behavior in 1982 was not after that, if I remember quite well! You can read it everywhere!]] You know all of this, and you can see that I have apparently had a very warm relationship with the Illwerke, otherwise I didn't know all of this, because you don't tell an enemy so boldly, dear Mr. Feurstein. Therefore: Don't operate energy-efficient time story! At the time, we had quite a different concern about the Illwerke than we have them today. Today we are experiencing the following scenario: First, the country of Vorarlberg, which was already in 1987, when the first half-privatization or 49-percent privatization of the composite society was carried out, had been preoccupied that it was supposed to get the Illwerke – that was already packed at the time, you know – that the Illwerke were actually quite favourable to give, namely, a purchase price lower than the free, taxed reserves available at the Illwerke. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That was a good conclusion!]] So to speak, the Illwerke bought themselves. In economic terms, the country of Vorarlberg de facto – right of home, Mr. Feurstein – has been given the Illwerke. At the same time, the Illwerk contracts were concluded. All of this happened at a time when we already knew about market liberalisation. Since 1989, 1991 it has been known among experts that market liberalisation will come. The directive has not yet been negotiated, but what it will be has already been known. That's why they thought: Let's quickly make a contract, a contract with a clause: Take or pay! We produce at any cost, we make a profit on it, and you have to pay it. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Voluntarily! This has been made voluntary! Voluntary! No compulsion!]] Interestingly, the composite society has done everything it can to please. Maybe that was a mistake. But let's just let it stand in the room. This contract has been concluded in this way. You know that. The contract was already at the border at the time, but he was still – Federal Minister Farnleitner has said that – system bound by the 150-year plan economic philosophy in the energy industry. Good. This is a difficult process of change, I understand. The next step was to make the ElWOG, and it has been suggested at the ElWOG that this Illwerk contract is not marketable. That is why it has been decided to raise it to the constitutional rank. Although this makes him difficult to change as a contract for himself, the hardness clause is also in the constitutional rank. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's true! No one argues!]] Whoever therefore responds to the hard culprit is right, for it is unsatisfying to demand a price three times higher than that which is common to the market. And if Mr. Sausgruber does not understand, then the country of Vorarlberg is economically in bad hands. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: He understands this very well!]] For if a head of state does not understand that it is illegal to demand the triple price for a company that has been given before, and if this head of state makes possible economic policy in that country, then I can only say: [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: We're still talking about this! Triple price! That's what I'm rejecting!]] Vorarlberg, good night! This is tragic, for apparently he is so used to it. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I reject this with the triple price!]] Mr Feurstein! Don't be so undisciplined and don't talk constantly in between! It doesn't make me nervous, but it's just unpleasant. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You make false statements!]] That is why I would like to say to you once again: In such a federal country, one only has to hope that Sausgruber will soon get one on the lid. Unless the Vorarlbergers want that. But I can't imagine that a federal country in which so many skilled people who are so successful in business can live for the long term with a head of state, which is an economic policy figure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12281	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12296	We don't even have something like this in Albania: an economic stone age figure, a Fred Feuerstein as as head of state in Vorarlberg. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12354	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12376	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate reminds us that not only EU elections and national elections will take place this year, but also Vorarlberg's country elections. From no other point of view, I can understand this debate because it is so irrational. Also, the arguments of the petitioners are partly so sure that I only know it under the... – I know, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, you know about racial theories better than with e-economics! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] However, I am going to deal with the E-Economics and with factual arguments, but not with your cheap, repulsive polemics. We are going back to the original point. I quote a letter from the board of directors, Mr Oberhaidinger. It says: "The fact is, of course, that the Illwerke Treaty, which dates back to 1926 and which has been unannounced until the turn of the millennium, is in stark contradiction with a liberalized electricity market and, as a European unique, guarantees the producer – the Vorarlberger Illwerke – not only a hundred percent reduction in his product for decades, but also a price that is not affected by market conditions." Maybe you can. You remember, Mr Oberhaidinger, that at the time I gave a different opinion to the ElWOG, in which it was first and foremost pointed out that the lifting of this treaty, which was an anachronism at the time from my point of view, had nothing to do with the market economy at all, but only with political calculation. The ÖVP received the Illwerke Treaty in the constitutional order, which SPÖ paid off the coal so to speak. But this has nothing to do with the market economy and nothing at all about a serious process. From my point of view, the association – including its board of directors – has acted perfectly properly to challenge this contract. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: The Treaty of 1926 has not been challenged! You don't even know each other!]] If he did not, the association would act against the interests of his shareholders. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not the Treaty of 1926!]] The association results in an annual loss of 300 million schillings from this contract. The whole of Austria is paying so to speak for the fact that the Illwerke and Vorarlberg are thus properly "to approach a money" which is totally unfounded. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: There was no connection in 1926! You're right next door!]] 1.10 S for the kilowatt hour fixed to pay over the turn of the millennium, although today the market price in the international or European area is 30 to 40 sizes per kilowatt hour, has nothing to do with market at all. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You haven't even read the contract!]] I am surprised that someone like you, Mr Feurstein, who comes from the ÖVP and, as I believe, feels obliged in some form of the market economy, represents such a system. That is West-Soviet, I can only say, Mr Comrade Feurstein, but that has nothing to do with a market economy system! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] We now have liberalized conditions, under which a company such as the union must claim itself in Austria as well. Of course, this Treaty must also be adapted to reality. It can't really be that there are such differences, both contractually and in the Constitution, as between the market price at European level and the 1.10 p. Minister! In your answer to the question, you already notice that you do not feel quite comfortable. For you write in the answer to questions 1 to 4: "... the market unrealisticly high price for Illwerke energy in conjunction with the acceptance guarantee and the long-term nature of the contract for the electricity-absorbing contractual partner Verbandgesellschaft could no longer constitute a reasonable hardness within the meaning of the contract." Yes, of course this is not reasonable hardness! In particular, it is not reasonable for eight out of nine federal states, but above all the electricity consumers of the other Länder, to co-finance this basket money for the Vorarlberger Illwerke! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Are you jealous?]] This may not be as populist as your argumentation, and this may probably not bring a lot of votes in Vorarlberg in one election year, but do not be angry with me, Mr Feurstein, to get out of here and defend a treaty that would really only fit into old communist systems, but no longer in a market economy of the year 1999 in Austria, is simply absurd! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You're jealous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's a shame! You shouldn't be jealous!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12516	The text of the Rules of Procedure is exhausted. The debate is closed. Short debate on the reply to the question 5586/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12538	We are now entering a second short debate on the question raised by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 5586/AB. This answer has also been distributed. There is no need for the reading by the writer. We are going into the debate. I refer to the time limits as before, in particular to the fact that the Federal Minister should not exceed a term of 10 minutes, but can. First of all, the reason for the request is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Your maximum speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12568	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ten days ago, we had here the customs of a urgent request according to time to deal with the subject of pushy, the issue of deportation practice, the topic of racist events in the police and the issue of over-examination of employees at the security authorities. Ten days ago, the Greens asked many questions about this subject complex to the Federal Minister. In spite of all this, he has answered some relatively precise and meaningfully. At the time, however, he did not answer other questions and promised us written answers. So far we haven't gotten them, but I'm still good hope. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Congratulations!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of this, however, the answer to a request has now been received, which has been submitted by us regardless of the death of Marcus Omofumas and which, in a certain way, documents that the problem of reticence in Austria – a reticulatory practice, dealing with asylum seekers who are in a state of suspense – is not a matter of incidentality, but of general, existing interest for many years, both on the part of the opposition in the National Council and on the part of human rights organisations, those institutions which deal with it in a professional, but above all on a voluntary basis. Federal Minister! Our request actually had almost a statistical character. I wanted to know from you how many cases of suicide, suicide attempts and self-harm have given it in the push. This is a very serious matter, because all those involved are faced with very big, also psychological, problems. For it is not for those who have to deal with the pushy – not for the caretakers of drawers and certainly not for those who work in the pushy; and of whom I know enough – that it is pleasant to be affected by these exceptional situations, as I would call them. That's certainly not it! That is why an institution that does not exist for a long time – but long enough to achieve a positive balance – has proved itself very well, namely, the care of drawers by trained employees of NGOs who are bound by contracts to the Ministry of the Interior. This kind of care is done by the Caritas, makes "SOS fellow human beings" in Upper Austria, or popular assistance, and that is something – the Federal Minister pointed out last week – which helps to reduce deescalation and aggression on both sides. I have not heard of any staff in a police prison house – neither personally nor from a second hand – who would not have appreciated this institution very much. Because what people do there is helpful for both sides, because this means that there is a certain possibility of reducing pressure for both sides. Mr. Federal Minister! Now there is the legitimate desire – and I come back to the statistics from this request – to intensify and expand these efforts, not least because of the events surrounding the death of Marcus Omofuma, but not only because of his death, but above all because of what has been known in the public and what has become known to me in part to information that I did not know before. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister knows his answer, but you may not be aware of it in detail. That is why I would like to point out that the answer to this question is particularly relevant in this respect. We have asked about the years 1996, 1997 and 1998, and we have learned that in these years 102, 109 and - in 1998 - 94 self-harms have occurred in Austrian penitentiary prisons. That is, absolutely, a number that is high, because behind every self-harm there is a human tragedy. These are people – you have to imagine – who in their situation, as they appear to be inexorably, as the last weapon to achieve something – whether you think it is legitimate or not – are now put in place – to use their bodies. I wonder, How far must a person be psychologically pressured to do so? – Because it is very difficult for me to understand. But the absolute number of – now I am referring to the year 1998 – 94 self-damage gets a special drama when it is pointed out that these 94 or around 100 cases mentioned in the request from the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – he has not broken this down in detail; that is not his fault, because the question was not due to it – 33 are those who – whatever the self-harm or suicide attempt – were in a ongoing asylum procedure. And 58 of these people had completed an asylum procedure. That is, if I not only interpret this, but take the naked facts into account – that almost exclusively asylum seekers, that is, almost exclusively people who are or have been in an asylum procedure – it does not make any difference for you because they are refugees according to your own understanding – make these suicide attempts and self-harms. Federal Minister! That's an alarm sign. That is why this is an alarm sign, because – not by you, but above all by the public opinion – we are now also being made aware of in the public: The objectors are all criminals, drug dealers and people who, without even having the slightest legitimacy, stop in Austria and are therefore rightly insubstantial! These figures prove that, if I only take out this small problem group now, and there are thousands in Austria in charge, especially those who seek protection from persecution in Austria and then come into these new extreme situations in Austria. This is what is at the heart of the discussion, Mr Minister, and Marcus Omofuma has become a synonym for this. This, Mr Minister, is a very essential point, in addition to the general demand for a law of enforcement and for general regulations, which I believe are logical, namely to intensify what has been started. This is something that I also thought was logical from your self-understanding. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior is promoting the initiatives for support and cooperation. However, it is also true, Mr Federal Minister, that the sugar bread-and-peitsche system is being used there. For that institution in Graz, which Mr. Matzka was not quite so pleased with, because, according to his views, it has been too rule-of-law-friendly, the money tap is turned on and its activity is restricted. "ZEBRA" will be able to hear – you know it better – no more or less money to do this work. Federal Minister! If, as I have said, this is an exceptional case in Austria, it is not a response to the management of dealing with the extreme situation of a person's death in police custody – which is an exception – that everything that goes towards psychological, social workers', therapeutic care in order to act deescalizing and aggressively in the first place – and it is a great deal of respect in the ranks of your officials and our officials, because they are not only your personal officials, but also servants of the Republic – if this does not become the point of activity – apart from everything that is otherwise outstanding; I only mention the chaos in the process of suspensions – if this is not brought into the centre of consciousness, Mr Federal Minister, then really hops and malts is lost, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Leikam: Talk time!]] In conclusion, we would like to give you the opportunity, apart from the naked facts, to put your proposals on the table. That's the meaning and purpose, and that's a chance for you. I'm asking you to use it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12617	Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. From now on, a speaking time limit of 5 minutes applies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12638	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The Greens and Mrs Stoisits have tabled a question to the Federal Minister. The request was answered in due time and, as we have now heard, it was very comprehensive and sufficiently documented with statistical documents and corresponding material. Finally, this was also the subject of Mrs Stoisits' speech. But if I read how this question is formulated, I have to say once again that a number of untruths have already been tried in this question to present a situation which does not exist in Austria in this form. If you write that, as a result of the inhumane conditions in the Austrian penitentiary institutions, these aggressions or self-harm are the result of the inhumane states, this simply does not correspond to the facts. You yourself have very much praised an institution to which I would also like to speak: that already in the second year of existence private non-governmental organizations are taking care of the workers, with very large financial and organisational support also by the Ministry of the Interior. I believe that in the past, first year, there were about 5 million schillings that have been transferred to these non-governmental organizations so that the care of the displaced can be carried out by such organizations. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You yourself have shown very praise in your present speech, but in the same breath, say that there are unworthy conditions in the Austrian penitentiary institutions. That is not true, that does not correspond to the facts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] This is a claim against better knowledge, Mrs Kammerlander, which you are constantly putting into the room and making public. What you are saying here does not correspond to Austrian conditions and not to the facts; on the other hand, it is a fact – and this has also been confirmed by Mrs Stoisits on the basis of the question answered – that the potential for conflict and aggression in the Austrian penitentiaries is declining. If you are talking about self-damage, you should say what you understand about it. This is a collective concept with which the citizen basically knows nothing to do with. This includes, for example, all those who go on a hunger strike. This is also referred to as self-damage in shantytowns. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: And they're just doing it because it's so "loving"? Or what?]] - Well, that's not funny! That's not funny. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stoisits and Ing. Langthaler.]] But don't be angry with me if I say, While it is quite possible in "normal" detention centres to carry out a forced feeding on hunger strikers, this is not possible for the pushers. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That would be even more beautiful!]] That would be even more beautiful! I do not want to blame you, but you yourself have said here that you very often have the opportunity to talk to these people and also to consult them in part, and I can quite imagine that this consultation sometimes includes the recommendation that, when they come into the hunger strike, they may be released from custody sooner or in advance. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Well, because it's so funny to go on the hunger strike, isn't it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] We know these recommendations, which are there, they are a fact, a fact! But then, at the same time, to complain that there are so many hunger-strickens, I think we are unscrupulous and not fair! [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: They do this because it is so "loving" and they are so boring!]] I believe that we have chosen, in comparison with other countries, an exemplary, exemplary process in the care of the displaced, especially with the possibility of assistance from non-governmental organisations, which is already in place in Austria for the second year – and throughout Austria – and which is seen by a total of eleven organisations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Another point. The exclusive goal of your criticism is the Minister of the Interior. However, I have not heard from you in your questions or other critical statements that you are asking what the countries are doing in this matter. The countries are obliged, in accordance with the Xenophobia Act, to provide an appropriate number of rooms. You're not doing that! The two smallest federal states of Austria, Vorarlberg and Burgenland, are involved, but all the other federal states are sumptuous. The countries would be obliged to provide a sufficiently large number of rooms at first, so that this boost tourism, which exists in Austria – and the officials do not really like to have to spend the visitors from one federal country to another or to another – can be put off, because that is not pleasant! Mr President, I conclude. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: What is a "schubtourism"?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, once again criticism of the process of the countries, ladies and gentlemen, instead of always taking only the Minister of the Interior as the objective of criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Are there not SPÖ and ÖVP in power?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12767	The next speaker is Mr Günther Platter. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12788	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this question debate on the occasion of the debate in order to talk about the shift transports and to draw up clear demands in order to allow for practical deportations in the future. In the special session of last Monday I criticized those guidelines which the Ministry of the Interior has prepared for the deportation on the airway and which are already available in the form of a decree. At the time, the criticism of the ÖVP was that in practice these directives cannot be implemented, that the use of a helmet for a booster is a total nonsense – a "held flop" – and that these directives are actually only a political clean-up. Our criticism was, above all, also in the sense that these new directives in practice are almost no longer possible for deportations at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure it can't be! That is why we are saying a clear no to these directives, which have been drawn up from a recognizable nervousness in the Husch-Puff procedure. The criticism we had during the special session was confirmed during this week. What is the opinion of the ÖVP on this? - She's quite clear. We say a clear yes to the deportations, because it is not acceptable that illegals reside in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also say a clear yes to the executive who, without speaking about the occasion now, must carry out this extremely difficult administrative process of deportation. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In addition, we also say a clear yes to directives that allow deportations, directives that give executives practical opportunities to carry out deportations successfully, without the Ministry of the Interior being able to wash his hands in innocence and without being able to look away in part and finally the officials acting in office have the Black Peter. I'm sure it can't be! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! We need a reasonable decision to give the executive officials clear rules in order to know what to do when this or that case occurs. We need clear guidelines which, of course, also take into account the interests of migrant workers. On the other hand, what we do not need is directives that will no longer make deportations possible in the future. Minister! Finally, I would like to repeat the demands we made at the last special meeting. Let us forget this Husch-Fusch decree and work together with the practitioners to develop guidelines that will also allow for deportations in the future! It is certainly not only in the interest of the executive, in the interest of the ÖVP, but in my opinion also in the interest of a large part of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12859	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12880	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter, I admit that these are really reasonable proposals you have just made. I only hope that the climate in the coalition – which has already occurred in the morning – is not already so poisoned that there is no cooperation between you in these areas. [[Abg. Kiss: No! Not in the field of internal security!]] For, Minister of the Interior, the way in which one has worked out this tragic death in the last few days, since the whole incident came to the public, does not seem to me to serve as an image of successful crisis management or of learning from this case for the future. But above all I have the impression, Mr Federal Minister, that you are beginning to give in to the growing pressure of the left-wing forces of this country, which you have massively suppressed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Soon he surrendered, not slowly!]] How else can it be judged if you say to a Vorarlberger newspaper yesterday in an interview that it is better to stop the deportation in the event of violence? – That means that you want to stick to your decision, which you have published – quite understandablely – in the shock of these events. But what does that mean, Mr. Federal Minister? – This is nothing but a call for resistance, since every pusher is clear that if he opposes the deportation to the Wehr, it will be aborted. [[Complaints with the liberals]] He also knows quite well that after six months he must be released. In addition, he knows exactly – and we fear that you will now be more relaxed in the implementation of the laws; for example, consider the intention of this request – that of course he has the opportunity to push himself out of custody by hunger strike or by other actions in order to be able to return to illegality afterwards. And that's why we already criticized you at the special meeting. Federal Minister! You will find us as really strict opponents, you should want to abandon the laws you have to implement. [[Complaints with the liberals]] For it must continue to apply the principle that anyone who is residing illegally in Austria and any foreigner who is going to be criminal in Austria must leave that country. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] You have to enforce this principle, Minister of the Interior. Federal Minister! What will be the next step if the governments of Green and Liberal reinforce the pressure even further if they go further into the public debate? Will you also remove the restrictions on entry? Will you say: All right, we're making a concession again, we're raising quotas or making concessions in other areas of asylum regulations? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what he's doing right now, Minister!]] Federal Minister! We wouldn't expect you to do that! We demand from you quite clearly that you comply with those laws which Parliament has decided here. You must not depart from that, because otherwise, I say quite openly to you, we will be the next to call for the committees of inquiry to verify the lack of implementation of the laws. For it can't be that you're doing nothing, as we're getting reports, about 5,000 - 5,000 of them last year! – During the ongoing procedure, asylum seekers suddenly disappeared into illegality – and nothing is done about it! You should waive this decree, you should continue to comply consistently with the laws, you should of course ensure that human measures are taken as far as possible. However, they should also ensure that at last enough space is created, even with pressure on the countries, so that it is not the case, as we have always noted, that about one third of the illegal foreigners in Tyrol must be released again because of lack of forced capacity. Mr Minister, you must also ensure the protection of officials who suffer from these acts of violence in the face of some deportations; we also demand concepts here, but have not heard anything from you until now. You have said that the proposed helmet will not do so in the event of a deportation. What alternatives are there to protect officials who have a very heavy service from such attacks? You still owe us an answer to these questions, Mr Minister. I would therefore ask you once again to give clear answers and to implement, in the sense of the rule of law, those laws which Parliament has given you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12960	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13021	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, the finding: The answer we are discussing here aims at facts – and these facts have also been put on the table. And that is the good thing about a request that it promotes facts. However, I believe that in this area of problem it should be the concern of all that all questions and all the facts that are relevant to the assessment of whether what is happening in this matter, especially in its processes, is right whether it is in accordance with human rights or not, is not to be put on the table. In this sense, this answer, which we are discussing here, is certainly also a building block to this, and the interpretation of the figures is sometimes revealing. It is certainly true that there is a problem with the number of recess rooms, and it is also true that there are indeed massive inconsistencies. However, the expression "hubious tourism" is already very euphemistic, because in this case the word "tourism" is really not in place. It is the helplessness of authorities to deal with a problem they have partly created themselves. The thrust is used far too restrictively, but I do not know that it is then and when and occasionally necessary. I say this very consciously so that liberals will not once again, as so often, be subject to "blue-eyed nativity" in order not to say "dummy". Again: We know that this instrument will have to be used again and again, and again and again, but the question is the proportionality of the funds – but this is not at all discussed in this House – or the actual need for apprehension: not only as an alibi action with three minutes of time per week and a suspension. It must be possible to develop relationships of trust, which, moreover, also de-escalizing if it is to be postponed. Who do you think if you've been unsuccessful in an asylum procedure? – To the one who has stood up to me, nolens volens, as a sniper, or to the one who has cared for one at this stage? I think it has become more visible today that our authorities and the security spokespersons of the government parties have partly an disturbed relationship with those people who are caring for the protection officers. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Kiss.]] In other words, Mr Leikam could not assume that the caretaker would, in principle, encourage the offenders to commit illegal acts. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Abg. Kiss: You would be grateful if I poured out a bulge full of dirt on you!]] It's important to me to say: Shifting caregivers do heavy social work. [[Abg. Kiss: Sure!]] They are as successful as they are, but they must have the opportunity to make time. Mr Kiss, it is more than once from this speaker's mouth – including you – that we would be "naive", "blue-eyed", in order not to say "deep". [[Abg. Kiss: I didn't say that! I've differentiated!]] And that's why, if I judge you in the political area and not attack your personality, please be critical! Why don't you stop this criticism? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And all of this in the light of the fact that Mr Leikam's officer of the complicity has moved with criminals. I think that's bad! We need good pushers, pushers, who are on his side at the hour of the emergency of the asylum seekers, who have failed with his asylum application, advise them and may have a very de-escaling effect. [[Abg. Kiss: I have the impression that you don't know what you're talking about!]] - I know what I'm talking about! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kiss.]] However, if you do not have this human access, you have an disturbed relationship with human rights – and then "pass" something to you. In your world it is only "passed" that Marcus Omofuma died. In your opinion, that was apparently a "disability" in other usual processes. I mean, it's about the processes. It is about handling, it is about the proportionality of the funds, and the self-harm and suicide attempts addressed are a reflection of the disproportionateness of the funds. There we have a Federal Minister for the Interior who tells us – so to speak under oath, yes, swear! – he did not know anything about all these practices. This statement stands in the room, and as long as it is not rebutted, it must be believed, even if it sometimes gets very much together, because it sounds implausible! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is implausible – you may say – that a Federal Minister is so badly informed. The question is: How long can Minister Schlögl carry out this game – until perhaps it comes to the conclusion that he is unable to run the department because he knows nothing? – At some point, the border will be reached, and I expect him today to refer from the Government Bank to this written record, in which a well-reputed person has written that he has informed Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister, until 1997 of the fact that the bonding of the mouth of Schubhaftlingen is fact. I expect the Federal Minister to express his views on this – perhaps by saying that I remain with what I have said or by saying something else. I want the Federal Minister to make an official statement to this House, because I think he owes us that, and I also believe that this cannot stand in the room. Then there will be a statement against the statement...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13133	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13148	...and we will have to make the evidence ourselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13179	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13200	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In some debates I already wonder: What has been wrong in democratic development in our country? I really wondered very much about Mr Leikam's contribution to the debate, but I can only say that. Mr Leikam, on the fact that, in your statements or in your work as a Member of Parliament, you have never at all come to mind whether the thrust is really the best, smartest and most humane means of caring for people seeking asylum, I can only be surprised. But instead, you will give me a speech here, which I am completely nervous about, in order to formulate it once in a while and not get a call for any other harmless words. It was completely painful because you never made the following consideration: If people who come to Austria want to be safe and apply for asylum here would be cared for from the beginning, for example in federal care, if they had appropriate support from the beginning, would not sit behind bars, locked in cells – only that causes fear and panic – but if these people found care worthy of the term "humane", then you would have – I guarantee it to you; this would also show you all the experiences where almost such a thing is done – necessarily deportations as no longer necessary. Where this is carried out in the first place, this is evident. There are institutions that are trying to do this. But all that is mentioned here, what is also mentioned by us in praise, in corresponding social services, in relevant refugee advisory services, in support and so on, is nothing but a small patch on a far too big wound. This can never close it and never cover it as long as these people have to be in prison. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I still find it completely incomprehensible how to put people seeking asylum in prison. I'll tell you something. My experiences – I have visited the Styria Prisons – are that those who are clearly not a case for asylum applications are very clear when they are postponed from Romania, Slovakia, Poland. They don't go hungry, they don't defend themselves. You can now say: Well, they're trying to get across some green borders to Austria again. Yes! They'll be taken again. Some have already been taken three or four times. They take this on themselves, from a different kind of despair, because they may have no work, or for other reasons. But those who harm themselves, who strike the hunger strike, who take on other injuries, these are those people who have death fears. And do you know what the system behind it is? – The system behind it is that asylum applications in Austria are under-examination and that there is also a lack of examination of whether individual persecution exists. I do not want to talk about the review of the political situation in the individual countries. We have repeatedly demonstrated this in the last four years here in inquiries and have also repeatedly told you: There is a difference between the assessment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, which is sky-screaming! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Again a claim that is not true! What you're saying isn't right!]] Why, I ask you, are people from Afghanistan still being detained today if they cannot even be postponed because this country does not accept and absorb them at all and we all know that they are going to die there? Why? Tell me the explanation! [[Abg. Kiss: That has completely different reasons than those that lead you to the meeting, Mrs Colleague!]] Minister! In that regard, everything you say here today, everything you try to do, from the helmet started, a helplessness, a helplessness is so much the same! Go to the problem and change this practice! Lift up the thrust and introduce a proper federal care that deserves the name, namely "care", and which is, by the way, far cheaper than all taxing costs! We have already demonstrated this to you in recent years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do so instead of adopting any helpless guidelines and presenting us with those that are absurd, repulsive and unworthy! Please set up a federal service for those who come to Austria and really apply for asylum here! Look You ask – first of all – that people will not be postponed if they can exploit another instance – I am at my conclusion – and have a spark of hope! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] In my opinion, that would be the right policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13279	The Federal Minister has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13300	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I have been trying since I took office to represent clear principles and clear guidelines on the issue of foreign, asylum and immigration policy. The crucial and important thing in this immigration, asylum and foreign policy is for me the integration of the people who are already in Austria, before a new immigration and the greatest possible rule of law for all those who have applied for asylum. However, these principles are also borne in mind – and I am saying this very clearly here – that it must be possible for a state and that it is a duty for a state to force people who have violated the legal standards of the Republic to take up and postpone them. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that it is necessary for us to do so in Austria. It is wrong to say that only asylum seekers are in suspense. At best, 50 percent of all asylum seekers are asylum seekers. The rest are illegal or held for other reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Kiss: You claimed it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last few months and years, we have really tried to make the most of it. We have tried to introduce the relief. Today, for example, we have more than 3,400 people in federal care, Mrs Kammerlander. That is, if it is said that we are not trying to do so, then it is simply wrong. But you also have to see that if we don't have the thrust, it would be very many people who are going to come to Austria illegally, which we can't push off because they're hiding. The best example of this is that last year more than 4,000 people seeking asylum have already been submerged, whose asylum procedures we have not been able to complete, because they have simply disappeared during or before federal care. [[Abg. Kiss: They are not aware of this! Greens and Liberals do not want to take note of this! They don't want to accept reality!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's no alternative to pushing. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] It is, of course, necessary and important to make every effort to make the most of human beings, as human as possible. In this respect, I have tried more than any other minister since I took office. And in my time, non-governmental organizations have introduced resuscisive care. Eleven associations, ladies and gentlemen, are now carrying out this project of forced care throughout Austria, whether this is the Caritas, whether the "SOS fellow man", whether this is the Evangelic deacony, the national aid or many other organizations. More than 5 million Schilling spends the Republic of Austria, the Ministry of the Interior, only for this taskful care. And I'm telling you, she's proved herself. This shift care is also paid in the best sense of the word. Both the non-governmental organizations and the police departments, our police officers believe that the potential for conflict and aggression has fallen in many cases as a result of this forced care. Self-harm, suicide attempts and hunger strikes could be significantly reduced compared to earlier. However, I have not only introduced these cornerstones of forced care by non-governmental organisations, but also set up a central thrust management that has proved to be very successful. We have introduced the relief in the integration package, ladies and gentlemen, which serves to ensure that many asylum seekers are no longer in suspense, but in federal care: 3 400 are alone at this time. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have also tried, after the tragic events surrounding the death of Mr Marcus Omofuma, to put a wide range of measures as quickly as possible. I do not want to list all these measures. One of the measures was that we prepared and sent to our officials directives as quickly as possible, according to which criteria such deportations will take place in the future. [[Abg. Kiss: They weren't all right! If it has happened without us, it is not all right without consulting the practitioners!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can't believe I've got the courage to get too bad! I am aware that these guidelines are not final wisdom. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime I have also put together with officials working in practice who have made such deportations; I have received a series of valuable information. [[Abg. Kiss: That's exactly what it's all about!]] That is why I have agreed with Mr Platter that we will sit down tomorrow and review the proposals of the EIA. And that is why additional directives on the directives already presented will come out over the next week, and the temporary suspension stop will be ignored and put out of effect in the event of deportations where resistance is to be expected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you are just talking about what's gone wrong now. It has also been very well done in the past. You can find out in a number of police departments – I have done this in the meantime – then you will learn that there have also been a lot of remarkable and positive initiatives in the deportation practice and that many officials have been very committed to doing so. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kier asked me to comment on Mr Schenk, a former employee of "SOS-Mithmensch", who said to the magazine "NEWS" that he had already informed me in 1997 about the practice of flawed tapes. Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I would like to say that it is very difficult for me – and I suppose, for everyone in this House – to say straight away who has been talking to more than two years ago. However, when I heard about these accusations, I tried to reconstruct things because of my calendar of appointments. Before: It, as claimed, has a conversation with the aid organization "SOS-Memmansch" on 3 March. ==References== And there was an interview – I think, on the 21st. September; definitely in September 1997 – with the newspaper "Kirche intern". These two allegations are true. I can no longer remember the content of the conversation about which it was then. However, I should like to point out to you, and this is with all the emphasis that, after all my memory has been ruled out, Mr Schenk gave me such information at the time. Secondly, I would like to point out that there is a contribution from the first conversation which my colleague, Mrs Mag. Brenner, made it. My employee's sitting here, she's got this contribution. You are available to each Member, Mr Kier, to you. It is available to all journalists. And it is also clear from this contribution that we have discussed many issues: the family-retirement rate, the Bosnia-Hercegovina aid, the anti-racism hotline of "SOS fellow man" and others, but not on this issue. [[Abg. Wabl: Set up by Partik-Pablé!]] I would ask you to look at this contribution. In addition, I would like to point out as further proof that I have made a number of statements on various topics during this conversation, the interview with "Church Internal", and have also been asked a variety of questions to me. On the subject of deportations and alleged flaws, I have not been asked a question. I think that's also an additional proof. That is why I would like to stress that I am able to rule out all the documents available to me and also because of my memory that two years ago Mr Schenk gave me this information. [[Abg. Kiss: Minister! How does the gift come to say this, and Mr Kier to pray for it?]] - You have to ask him that. I can only offer you the evidence I have, and I ask you to actually check this evidence. In addition, I would also like to personally say something that seems very important to me too. Most of the ladies and gentlemen here in the house know me, know me with my strengths and with my weaknesses. But you know that it is certainly one of my strengths that I go into all the accusations addressed to my department immediately and try to verify these accusations and take appropriate measures. No matter whether these are serious accusations or whether they are seemingly minor problems, I try to address all the problems. If I had been told about this problem of gags with tapes in the event of deportations, I would have responded, ladies and gentlemen, to this problem. Finally, I would like to say one more thing, which is also very important to me: Such accusations – perhaps other accusations come; I already know that the Internet is calling for people who have spoken to Schlögl on this subject – of course also pose a great danger in themselves, ladies and gentlemen, namely that every member of the government who has countless dates every day – but also every one of you, honourable Members – will only have talks in the future with a running tape, because otherwise it cannot prove what it spoke to someone a year ago, two or three years ago. [[We welcome the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, must not be the goal of our policy. That is why I say very openly and clearly and would like to stress this with all clarity: From my memory, from my honest memory, I can rule out the fact that there has ever been talk with me about this issue – neither with Mr. Donk nor with anyone else. In addition, I also offer my colleague's contribution as proof that these claims are false.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13435	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13456	I declare that the honourable Member Dr Kier, Mag. Stoisits and comrades according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an Examining Committee to examine the following matters: (a) the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the incidents that led to the death of the Nigerian Marcus Omofuma in the course of an attempted deportation (b) the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the practice exercised by the authorities in the application and implementation of repressive measures (c) the review of the criteria laid down by the authorities in the context of proportionality in the preparation and implementation of deportations by the Federal Minister for the Interior and five other points of investigation. In this context, it is the one of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure will be the debate and the vote after completion of the agenda for today's sitting. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13494	We shall now proceed to a further brief debate. This concerns the request made by Mr Dr Kier, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 1027/A (E) by Dr Schmidt and Comrades on the report from the Federal Chancellor to the National Council on Human Rights in Austria (Human Rights Report) for a period of 16 months. In June 1999, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. After the end of the debate, the vote on the proposed time limit will take place immediately. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the first speaker has 10 minutes, all the other speakers have 5 minutes at his disposal. A case-law of members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. The floor was given to the applicant, Mr Dr Kier. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13524	Mr President. High house! The Liberal Group has requested a deadline for a resolution which has been in the House for a long time. We would like to know it in time today, because it has received a high level of topicality. Finally, it is also about those events that we have just discussed. It aims to ensure that the Austrian National Council is presented every two years by the Federal Chancellor with a report on the legal and actual situation regarding the development, guarantee and respect for human rights in Austria. We believe that a country which is entitled to take such standards seriously would be very well advised if it also laid down its own, domestic findings in a human rights report and presented it to Parliament every two years. If there had been such an instrument, or if there had been such an instrument, and also a suitable place for writing such a thing together with independent institutions, all of these things, which are now so unpleasant in the room, namely that some time ago, three years ago, one and a half years ago, or whenever serious human rights violations were claimed – I would have referred again to the CPT report, in which Austria was confronted with certain accusations – would have necessarily been dealt with in such an Austrian human rights report. If, for example, the organization "SOS-Mithmensch" here, which was quoted as "SOS-Mithmensch", was already in the case of Upper Austria, which is very active in the custody care sector, in a press conference of the 1. I think that the fact that a regular human rights report is to be refunded would have led to such a claim being evaluated there and could have proved to be false or correct. I mean, we have to avoid one thing when it comes to questions like how they have been treated today: We must avoid getting into the situation that allegations are opposite each other and that each of the two sides that have made the allegations takes place without objective evaluation and without objective review of the fact that their and only their claim can be the only correct one. If we did so on human rights issues, we would make a very serious mistake and, in particular, there would further damage the necessary trust in public institutions, the necessary and indispensable to a rule of law in the integrity of the security executive, for example. A necessary element of the rule of law is the trust in the integrity of the security executive. This confidence will continue to erode, we will continue to damage it if, when events are brought to light, which are simply unbearable, are not rigorous, clear, prompt and clearly examined. It has also not deserved the greater number of people who work in this area – probably even the vast majority of people who work there – that it is by the fact that the unexplained remains in the room, that it gets into the hostages of those who take human rights on the light shoulder, have failed to see it or have not noticed that a man died a painful suffocation death in their seats next to them. A human rights report to be published at regular intervals could, for example, shed light on aspects of the implementation of foreign laws, the question of the strict application of the third country clause, the deportation practice, the interpretation of asylum grounds, the use and proportionality of detention and also the question of minorities, aspects of respect for human rights in connection with the new methods of arrest and grid investigation introduced by you, the need for reform in criminal proceedings, in which, as we all know, there is a great need for reform. I often talk to experts who believe that we should finally have the status of 19. However, we would not have the appropriate tools for overcoming the century. The question of the freedom of guidance or binding of prosecutors – all of this affects the realization of human rights. The actual conditions in the prisons – whether they be the prisons in the field of justice or the prisons in the area of police, police custody – are all things that should be addressed in a regular human rights report. We therefore consider such an essential. I believe that this afternoon's debates, in the light of the mutual demands that there should be an objective effort to give the committee responsible a good opportunity to set a time limit. It should be agreed before the summer break on the necessity or non-necessity of a human rights report to be submitted every two years. It would be really important for this House's self-understanding to express the political claim that we representatives of the Republic of Austria attach great importance to being informed every two years by the Federal Chancellor by presenting such a comprehensive human rights report. I remind you, my colleagues Posch, Amon, Stoisits and Graf will know this: At the beginning of the legislative period, we discussed the establishment of a human rights subcommittee. These have initially been quite fertile, but suddenly they are encapsulated. Apparently, the majority of governments have lost the joy of whatever reason. Now you could give yourself a back and agree to this deadline request. It is certainly far more unpleasant if accusations about torture, abuses, unbearable conditions remain in the room in pushing prisons that are never evaluated except for those who are themselves affected. On the one hand, we must protect those concerned and, on the other, we must return to the right path, because they know that they are regularly supervised. No one is able to control himself. Remember that the old sentence of state law "Who is guarding the guards?" in a more complex society is more important than ever. A human rights report which will be submitted to the National Council and which would also enable us to make a visit to Austria by the Council of Europe again next time – and this is before or later – to make our own reports available to us, would be a proven means of producing political public opinion, discussing weaknesses politically and drawing political conclusions from them together. If, in the previous debate, the question was raised, there are too few reticulatory capacities – Mr Leikam, I think – then I say: That's right, yeah. Only, for example, the question arises of the state in which the existing capacities are located. Will it continue to be necessary for this to happen, which has been the case in Vienna for a long time, that the occupation of penitentiaries was controlled by the use of medical blanks for the determination of inability or detention in order to manage the occupation? Finally, Do you know who was responsible for these blanks? – It was the police officer, who was shortly thereafter appointed the police president of Vienna! They must not be surprised if this does not necessarily encourage those officials in the executive – and that is the great majority – who strictly comply with the laws that take their rules seriously and do not overlook human rights with a twinkling. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13583	The speaking times for the further statements are 5 minutes. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13605	Mr President. High house! Mr Kier has already referred to the human rights report. Even if we do not agree with the deadline, we do not think that such a human rights report should now be debated or decided on from the current occasion, and we do not believe that an individual case that has happened would have been prevented by such a human rights report, we share the fundamental concern, namely that fundamental and human rights are essential building blocks of a liberal and rule-of-law society. We must always strive to advance the development of fundamental rights. In addition, Austria is obliged to report on important United Nations conventions at periodic intervals, as you have written in your request. In this respect, we fully share your concerns in terms of content. I would like to add that it would be better not only to present a human rights report but also to discuss several reports on specific areas of human rights protection. It would be necessary and welcome to set up a Human Rights Committee, although there is currently no consensus on this. I hope that in the next legislative period there will be a consensus on the establishment of a human rights committee to deal with the most important human rights issues. In fact, I believe that Austria does not have to hide itself in principle. There are also enough materials to be discussed; I am thinking, for example, of the Pact on Civil and Political Rights or of Social, Cultural and Economic Rights, of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on Women, the Convention on Torture, the Geneva Convention on Refugees, the Framework Convention on the Protection of Regional Minorities, which Austria has already ratified, or of the Charter for the Protection of Regional Minority Languages, which is still in place for ratification. So there would be enough materials. In recent years, there has also been a large number of international treaties and documents on the protection of human rights, in which Austria has actively participated. The UN World Conference on Human Rights was also held in Vienna in 1993, on which the need for comprehensive human rights protection and understanding was based. That is to say, the establishment of such a committee of human rights, which will influence legislative measures, which will strengthen the control function and would, above all, provide a consistent and systematic approach to this cross-sectional matter. This means both participation in the legislation on human rights, self-employed requests, motions for resolutions, as well as the consultation of reports from the Federal Government, the consultation of human rights issues, the sending of parliamentary delegations and public hearings and surveys. In principle, we consider everything that serves to discuss the enforcement of human rights, which helps to address public human rights violations – human rights violations, as they certainly happen to us, even if in individual cases – and to strengthen public awareness of human rights and humanitarian aid. In this respect, we fully agree with you in terms of content. I think that Austria can make such a discussion quite clear.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13648	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13669	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Every reasonable person is for the complete respect of human rights; it is also for the legislative body to receive reports from enforcement. We, too, are liberals in that the report on which the debate is concerned is being returned. We agree with him in a sense, and we are also in favour of setting up a Human Rights Committee. We are in favour of informing ourselves and of exerting a certain preventive pressure towards respect for human rights. But if one reads over and over again how in Austria the executive and members of other institutions alleged human rights are being violated on the ongoing band, while at the same time dealing professionally with these fields, one already realizes that the background is not illuminated by the authors at all and that things are considered very one-sided. The claims made on many occasions should therefore be addressed with great caution. The Austrian executive is not based on – contrary to the claims made by the authors of these reports – to commit human rights violations to innocent people on the ground. I would like to refer to Mrs Stoisits' statement, which said that she is about the statistical presentation of things, but this is at an earlier item on the agenda. It's all about me, too. To get back to the current topic: It must be borne in mind that there are 750 000 foreigners legally present in Austria and 250 000 foreigners, not according to my estimate, but according to the authorities, who are illegally present. It must be borne in mind that there have been no fewer than 100,000 deportations over the past five years! Where would we have come from if these deportations, this great number of deportations, could not have taken place? What would that mean for the structures that already burst from all the seams in Austria? And what kind of attraction would that have for those who are still considering where they could at least turn, if they wanted to come to Europe, and for the tractors who are organizing it and who bring these poor devils – often such ones – into the country?- Oh, my God! When it comes to proportionality, which has been conjured, I can tell you some facts that have not been found in the reports of the various organizations and which the media do not accept so much. There are first of all problematic incidents at the airport Schwechat. Criminal officers come to the lawyer and ask: Doctor, what are we gonna do? – For example, someone comes from a country to Austria, who knows that you need relevant documents for entry, and the person concerned knows that too. He knows from the outset that he will not be allowed to enter because he does not own these documents. So he comes by plane and is in the transit room. There he undresses all the garments until he is puddled, throws the clothes into the ventilation shaft and stands there as God created him. No more airline in the world is ready to take it back as it stands. But if someone is brought to the airport from outside, he has often – where he gets it – consumed another question – Rizinus oil, and how he looks when he's down at the airfield, you can imagine. It will not be taken away by anyone and will simply have to be brought back. This can be repeated seven to eight times until things are under control. So when he arrives, he takes off naked, throws away the clothes so that they can no longer be used, and with that he is once "angenailed". If it is to be transported, it consumes oil in advance, and the effect is a similar one. Then the police come and ask: What do you want me to do? Now we're already taking control of the plane. They spit me in the face, they scratch me from the forehead to the chest, they bite me wherever they can catch me, they tear me down the garment, the revers of the suit et cetera. Who's paying me that? – And I have to say, in truth: Nobody, please, pay for it. They could, in any case, be of interest to the relevant interests. But that won't be useful. I also know a particularly harsh case: An African was postponed after two years of in vain attempts to get him out of the country. He bit his finger at an Austrian police officer – not a piece of shit, not just scratched or beaten him up, but completely bit him! All the parties involved – Mr Graf is a witness because he was one of the lawyers who were there – have been looking for his finger to at least allow him to be sewn again. Have you read anything about it in the newspapers? - Nothing at all! No human rights organisations have taken a stand either. That is the background of many of these incidents, and one must also recognize, highlight and consider them if one wants to judge things!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13719	The next item is Mrs Gredler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to support this request for deadline, which is because there is also a "annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union" in the European Union, which is always very controversial but very valuable. In the Resolution on respect for human rights in the European Union, which was adopted at the meeting on 17 November 1997, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on human rights in the European Union. A very instructive passage has been adopted on December 1, 1998. It deals with children's rights, women's rights, in particular in the social field, equality between women, protection of the family, protection of life and so on, then deals with the situation of prisoners and the problem of rehabilitation. It says in point 70: "... regrets that in the European Union cases of torture, rape and inhuman, cruel and degrading treatment of prisoners or prisoners, especially police custody, can occur by members of the police or prison staff; stresses that such action is often based on racist motives;" – Interesting, they have had a long look in the European Parliament at the end of last year! It goes on to say in point 72: "... it is with pity that the members of the law enforcement forces who have committed such acts are rarely prosecuted or have only minor penalties; calls on the Member States to show more decisiveness, so that none of these acts remain unpunished;" – I must say: notable! Point 72 hits the nail on the head. If one follows the development of the last days in the case of Marcus Omofuma, then it may already be that one begins to wonder who was actually killed there. Who actually died? Who was wrong? – It must not be true that it is said that the poor officials were in a situation in which they could no longer defend themselves, or in which they had to purchase the very slow death of the displaced, so to speak, in order to defend themselves. I'm talking about a very slow death, because you have to imagine you would stick to everything except a nostril and you can hardly breathe. They wouldn't die in the same way, but very slowly, and that's what makes me particularly affected. It also affects me that the Federal Minister responsible says that he has initiated all the measures so that such an incident does not repeat. - That's nice and good. But he has not shown that he has the political quality to hold such an office. In fact, it was a political backbone to resign as the Federal Minister for the Interior in view of such events, just as it is a matter of course in other countries. Do you remember that in Los Angeles a black man was beaten by cops? Los Angeles Police President has, of course, resigned! It was not long discussed that he had made his office available within two days. It has been obvious in Belgium that, in a similar case, the Minister of the Interior has resigned. I wonder, Why do we need a mistrust in Austria? Why can't we have a political backbone here with the members of the government? It's really an absurdity: We are talking about human rights, and those who should ensure that they are respected do not even have to succeed once it has failed! I think this is an intolerable situation. Whoever kills a person, and whoever accepts it, is also willing to purchase a second human life. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who killed?]] I would like to make another point 77 of this resolution. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs. Colleague, who killed?]] . I am not saying anything about the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, because Mrs Partik-Pablé's comments at the last part-session have been so problematic that we have to note that racism in Austria should clearly be combated. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't turn off! Think about what you said now!]] I do not understand why she has not taken back these statements and has not apologised for them. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't turn off! Think about what you said!]] I also sometimes do things where I have to take back and say that I have done wrong. It would be good if Mrs. Partik-Pablé would do the same. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who is a murderer?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who do you accuse of killing people?]] I'm throwing...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13842	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13857	... before you don't deal with human fates in Austria carefully enough!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13888	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13909	Ladies and gentlemen! What can be done about the presentation of a human rights report in Parliament? – In the first place, it can lead to what has proved to be the greatest shortage today and in the last few days and because of the public debate: That in Austria officials do what they have learned. The three officials who accompanied Marcus Omofuma were engrossed by a mission and by an idea, namely the idea they were taught: Blacks belong away from Austria – and that was a black one – blacks belong away, they come here because they want to disappear a better life here, because they are acting unobtrusively here! Ladies and gentlemen! Blacks belong away. – That is what you are told every day. That is what Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé openly announces here and simply racistally from the speaker's desk, and that is what the chairman of the Committee on the Interior tries to tell us by the flower that the drawers are the compliments of those who want to do something better here. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is huge! Now stop setting up!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Terezija, take it back!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: One accuses people of being killed, and now that! Today you're out of edge and band!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Federal Government is producing human rights reports has now become an indispensable must. For international reports, which come to Austria and in which accusations of torture are raised, are ignored. No conclusions will be drawn from it. The Anti-Folter Committee of the Council of Europe visits Austria, makes statements and brings these findings or accusations to the attention of the government. The government reads them – and does nothing. She's not doing anything! Ladies and gentlemen! That's what makes the concern of Dr. Kier and friends so essential. It is about the rule of law, the rule of law, and it is about centred on the fact that it is not enough to sign international treaties, if they are not ratified for years, that it is not enough to speak of minority and ethnic rights, if one does not implement them internally. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Tell Joschka Fischer all this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament can do what its legal role is, to control what is happening in the administration and what the government is doing. But what do you want to expect from a government that intends to make an official one of the highest in the Republic, who some time ago wrote the following content: Finalize and leave with the boy. – I don’t know if a black person was meant or a non-black-skinned person. Finalize and leave with the boy, it was called. That is how the person's human rights understanding looks in record notes, and such a person is then praised as the highest official of the Republic! Ladies and gentlemen! Much is no longer missing, then we move with Turkey in this regard, because Turkey is that country that has treated CPT reports – from the Council of Europe's anti-faltic committee – as if they did not exist. They were simply ignored! Turkey is reported by the Council of Europe every year or whenever such reports exist. [[Abg. Young: But you have never met the Turkish authorities, Mrs Colleague! You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Is that what you want? Do you want Austria and Turkey to be thrown into the same pot on these questions? - I don't want it! That is why I would like the National Council to consider its task: Control of the administration, control of the human rights situation, control of what there is in the absence of government. That is why we support this request from Dr Kier and, of course, also the deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13998	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request by Mr Dr Kier, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 1027/A (E) concerning the report by the Federal Chancellor to the National Council on respect for human rights in Austria for a period of 16 months. In June 1999, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Although the Teresa has not apologised for these interruptions!]] We have thus ended the debate on the proposal for a deadline. 2. Point report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (1572 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the railway transit of the Austrian-Hungarian industrial park in the vicinity of the town of Szentgotthárd and the Supplement (1817 of the Supplements) 3. Point report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (1634 of the Supplements): Protocol to the Agreement on Cooperation and a Customs Union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino as a result of the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union and the Final Act and the Joint Declaration and Annex (1818 of the Supplements) 4. Point report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (1691): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the implementation of Article 41(2) of the Convention pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the establishment of a European Police Office (EUROPOL Convention) and Verbalnote (1819 of the Supplements) 5. Point report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the report (III-35 of the Supplements) by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning South Tyrol (1820)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14058	We will return to the agenda for today's sitting and start negotiations on points 2 to 5 of the agenda. The deliberations on these points will be carried out jointly. I do not have the wish for oral reporting. Mr Dkfm has spoken. Holger Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14089	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the so-called EUROPOL Convention within the framework of this item on the agenda. This EUROPOL Convention is, of course, about the establishment of a police information exchange centre within the EU and the sending of their national liaison officers to each Member State. On the contrary, it is of course, especially from a liberal point of view, that there is nothing to object to – quite the contrary! - if that works. But in this EUROPOL agreement we have also signed a provision, Mrs State Secretary, according to which the Austrian liaison officers – i.e. the police or staff we are sending to Amsterdam – are to enjoy the same privileges and immunities as the members of the diplomatic staff. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you personally are not interested in what I can't change: The Austrians will be very interested if we have them – and we have already prepared the leaflet, you can rely on it! – say: Dear compatriots! Dear Austrians! You and other EU citizens – with a certain degree of permission, I say as Holger Bauer – are blocked by the duty-free shops, because you can rightly ask: What does that mean, duty-free? What is the meaning of customs freedom when I move within a customs area within the EU? – Only, I don’t see at all – and I suppose neither the Austrians nor we will tell them – that on the other hand, to the EU’s official caste already own, you can now also create your own official caste with the police! He only moves from Vienna to Amsterdam. Why does he need all the privileges, in principle the same privileges and immunities as the diplomats, like the members of the Diplomatic Corps? I wonder that and I ask you – and we will ask the Austrians that. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We will not, of course, list them the entire federal law paper, not all that stands in it, but the most important things we will tell them already. We'll say: This Federal Government shall sign the following arrangements: The diplomat – in the case of employees in Amsterdam – who is serving in the police, EUROPOL department is exempt from all state, regional and municipal personal and real taxes and charges. - So far, so bad. Secondly, it is of course exempt from all customs duties and other taxes and duties. Bracket on: Austrian: Duty-free nothing, but the employee in Amsterdam has everything duty-free and tax-free. High house! And especially will it be a pleasure for the Austrians to write in the leaflet that the family members who belong to the household of this official, this policeman or whatever will be there also have the same privileges – I quote literally: Privileges and immunity rights – enjoy like the police or like this official himself. Ladies and gentlemen! You have not recognized the signs of the time when you sign such agreements! They have not realized that people are satisfied with the fact that there are such and such. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you will understand that we will tell them with all clarity who is signing such agreements in this country and who is once again creating two classes of citizens and two boxes in that country: the one who can no longer even go to the duty-free shop, and the other who are in principle exempt from tax, are free of customs duties and enjoy other immunity privileges – including their family members up to the fifth member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14150	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14171	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I am very close to the agreement between Austria and Hungary, particularly on the newly created rail link, which will be possible under this agreement. Klubobmann Andreas Khol and I were in the district of Jennersdorf today exactly four weeks ago and have dealt very intensively with the topic of the Heiligenkreuz business park. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What's there? What's there?]] In this Heiligenkreuz business park, Mr Schweitzer, 1 859 jobs are to be created, with a total investment of 800 million. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 2.3 billion misinvestments!]] – Tell them to those who get their job there, Mr Schweitzer! Talk to those who have found their homeland back there, and don't pretend to know what's going on from this region in economic terms! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We were able to convince ourselves in practice – and I am very often there because it is my regional constituency – what is done in the wise way in this business park Heiligenkreuz on Austrian side and on Hungarian side in Szentgotthárd. As early as 1992, there were the first considerations: In this area, which needs jobs, there must simply be a regional impetus which creates jobs, an overall investment that connects Austria and Hungary, the Jennersdorf region, the Heiligenkreuz and Szentgotthárd region. And this regional, cross-border cooperation bears its first fruits. It therefore bears its fruit, because for the first time it is possible to transport goods through the Hungarian state territory, including through the Raab-Ödenburg-Ebenfurther railway to Austria, from the Lyocell-Ebenfurther railway plant to the Austrian railway station, via Austrian railways, because tens of thousands of tons of chemicals, tens of thousands of tons of fibres are transported away from the Lyocell plant and from the Lyocell plant, because there is exactly the impulse that we, as the Federal Government, want to set in terms of transport policy, namely an impulse towards rail and away from the road – that is exactly the right approach. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many jobs are there?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! And what makes this agreement so valuable: Lyocell products are not controlled at the Hungarian border, so there is no freight handling control. There are no customs duties, no charges, no charges to pay, they are treated on Hungarian soil practically as on Austrian soil, like Austrian goods – and that is that cooperation, which is the cooperation, the Austria and Hungary that brings the region Jennersdorf and Szentgotthárd closer to each other. That's the way I'm saying, If economic policy, if regional policy, if, for example, INTERREG 2 and PHARE programmes are so interconnected, this is especially for those people we want to bring back to their homes. – Even if others know better and better, especially Mr Schweitzer, who in the past has not bothered about whether a southern Burger country from Vienna is returning home to have a job in the Southburgerland, which does not matter if there is an investment in the future of this region, who is doing with one word what he can best: Mushrooms, sitting in the doorstep and smiling at the fact that others work.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14246	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14267	Gospod predsednik! Gospa Državna secretary! Visoki stupid! High house! Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment very briefly on the EUROPOL agreement and, of course, I would like to repeat the concerns that the Liberals have expressed at the time: We do not see that EUROPOL officials should be so privileged and have such immunities. We simply don't see that, because it's not related to their activity. We reject the present proposal. Now briefly on the South Tyrol report: Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that there has been a unanimous agreement. The Liberal Forum also welcomes the development in South Tyrol. The status of autonomy, the autonomy as a whole, has proved to be a very useful and good means of discouraging and solving a people's problem. And today autonomy is something for which both Ladins and German-speaking and Italian-speaking South Tyroleans say yes – I think this is a great progress. It could also be a model for solutions in Tibet, for example, solutions in Kurdistan – even there you could use the South Tyrol model. There are still some questions to be resolved, especially in the area of police authorities, where the German does not yet play this role and is simply disregarded; we have data about it: up to 90 percent. I think there are also a few competences that Bolzano is waiting for – even this one should be reminded – especially in the field of energy and large water. The Liberal Forum is committed to a dynamic interpretation of autonomy and, at all, of popular rights, and with great regret, Mr Khol, I must note that your group is in particular prevented from bringing the deliberation of Article 19 of the basic law to a reasonable conclusion. I find it unheard of to act so clearly and unilaterally in South Tyrol and, on the other hand, not to find the same language for the groups in Austria, Mr Khol. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to write this to you in the main book: I am deeply disappointed by you, I am deeply disappointed by such a behavior of a man who must know in himself the problems and know what he is doing or what he has to fail. In summary, you can say: A positive balance sheet for South Tyrol. I believe, however, that the Secretary of State should soon be given an EU constitution. First drafts would be necessary. Above all, we would like to see a very, very clear EU directive on popular protection – this would be a great step forward for Europe and, in this sense, for Austria. It would then be compelling right. And so Mr. Khol with comrades could not prevent good, reasonable solutions in his own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14319	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14338	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I should like to follow the remarks made by my previous speaker, Karl Smolle, and also look at the South Tyrol report and the outcome of the subcommittee, since this report has a high level of topicality that goes far beyond South Tyrol. Autonomy is currently in many mouths. For example, autonomy for Kosovo was a demand we have heard for a number of years. This also has a lot to do with what has been achieved in autonomy in South Tyrol. When we look back in the 1960s, we see the parallels, they are only today, almost 40 years later, out of the consciousness suppressed – thank God! Some of the reports we received during the last two, three years on the suppression of a people's group from Kosovo back then in South Tyrol remind us of those reports. In the 1960s, the German People's Group was truly oppressed in South Tyrol de facto. There was no German-speaking doctor at the Bozner Hospital, and if a only German-speaking patient has come from the country, he has not even been able to communicate with the doctor. No bilingualism in offices, in courts, in authorities, no really independent educational opportunities for the German-speaking population. That was the situation at the beginning of the 1960s. The result was explosive attacks, terrorist actions – as they were called terrorist actions at the time – a cry of the population. The response was an increased military presence in South Tyrol at the time. If you've moved on the South Tyrol streets, you've met up with military vehicles, you've done everything to suppress this very autonomy movement. But then we have taken a different path in connection with South Tyrol, and I think this can be exemplary for how to deal with such problems. Bruno Kreisky then brought this problem to the United Nations – you know that. [[Abg. Young: And kept contacts with the Liberation Committee!]] Please, that's a really serious thing. In two resolutions, the United Nations Assembly drew up solutions and proposed solutions. And that's where the difference to Kosovo begins: Both countries, both Austria and Italy, then took this path seriously. There are a few features that one can learn from these 35, 40 years of autonomy movements: The basis were resolutions of the United Nations Assembly – this seems to me to be very important. It followed toughness, patience and close cooperation between South Tyrol and Austria, and it took 40 years for this resolution to be implemented almost completely. The autonomy was also a common concern of all three groups in South Tyrol – that is also crucial. It doesn't work if one ethnic group wants to rule over the other. It was a common concern. The German-speaking, the Italian-speaking and the Ladins have tried to make the most of it for their country. In particular, there was also a sensible political leadership that, as long as progress has been made, has never left the way of negotiations and has been able to resist temptation. There have been enough attempts in this respect. But it was also a wise population that always rejected those groups that wanted to polarize in this area. Those parties who have demanded independence have never gone beyond 5 percent. The result, I believe, can be measured in today's situation: One of the then barracks is today a university of health professionals, the state roads were transferred from the Republic of Italy to the country. All the things that have developed so positively there are mentioned in this report. I think Austria is also responsible for minority policy in Europe from this experience. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] That is why we should take seriously what our South Tyrol friends always tell us in all friendship, namely that they would expect more support from us in the European Charter of Minorities. I really want to say that from this point of view. You're waiting for that. [[Renewal detonatative accompaniment of the abg. Smolle.]] It will be our task as an Austrian Parliament to continue to accompany South Tyrol on this positive path so that we can take this autonomy as a model and also implement it in other parts of Europe, wherever it is concerned about minority policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14398	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14420	High house! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Paul Kiss. Only a note on the Holy Cross and the agreement with Hungary to which we agree: From this need to ride a Philippine for the Lyocell plant, which testifies to a little of economic incomprehensibility or inconsistency, dear Paul. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This economically soft egg Lyocell plant with the total flop, which has turned out to be a defense for management reasons et cetera, is Humbug par excellence. That's where you get into the record book, dear Paul Kiss. And the serious, state-bearing face in your speech could have saved you, you should have laughed at your speech – but only by the way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Thankfully, South Tyrol was also discussed in detail by my predecessor. Some comments. South Tyrol policy was and is basically consensus policy of the important parties also in this House. That is why I would like to stress once again, as I did in the Committee, that, despite some progress in South Tyrol policy, despite the fact that Austria has the ever-increasing protection function for South Tyrol – the ever-increasing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I note once again that Auguren thinks that you are not a heart concern, Mrs State Secretary, South Tyrol. I'm not going to say this now, but if you could upgrade it, we'd be grateful for it. If we are for the defence power function – and that is fact – then this function of course is filled with life, namely the fact that you do not give any jubilation and performance reports, but point to what is still to be done, because the path of suffering of the South Tyroleans has not been abolished since the First World War, ladies and gentlemen! If today, for example, the necessary amnesty for South Tyrol activists is still being pushed to the long-term bank, then not only from a liberal point of view, but also from a diplomatic point of view, ladies and gentlemen, must be reformed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also necessary that questions from the Federal Minister responsible should be answered a little more seriously, not as he did on 25 May. He answered a parliamentary question in 1999 by replying to the question: "Are you aware of the cases of South Tyroleans which, according to the findings of German Supreme Courts and the Austrian Administrative Court, have been condemned by Italian courts against the European Convention on Human Rights?==References====External links== This has nothing to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. One has nothing to do with the other! I am with colleagues President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In this regard there is still a lot to do, or here, Mr Niederweiser, there is also a bit of a researcher, because the repeated reason that elections would be held in Italy is simply not the case. Then there is nothing you should do there, because there is no restless elections there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A long, long path of suffering, as mentioned, and from the climateic point of view, I can only quote from an essay by Viktoria Stadlmayer – I hope that this Grande Dame of South Tyrol policy, which also had to sit in Italian prisons and was not treated there, is known to you – she says: Nor do the Italians understand and understand in the depths of their hearts that there are people who are not happy to be Italians. – Under this title one must also see the open questions of the outstanding completion of the Toponomastic question. There's a lot to do here. Just to say: Well, that's a problem between Bolzano and Rome! That is why we believe that you too should take action on the question of the grace of South Tyrol activists and the question of toponomastics. It is not true that, as the Federal Minister is, one can be very satisfied with South Tyrol policy. There's a lot to do. Some things have happened in the positive sense, in the peaceful congregation of the South Tyrolean population, but the essential questions such as, for example, – once again! – Amnesty and toponomastics belong up-to-date. We ask you to act there in the sense of the commonness of South Tyrol policy and not to give way to forthcoming elections in Italy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14509	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word is not requested by the rapporteur. We therefore come to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty and the Supplement in 1572. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. . I note that this request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Final Act and the Joint Declaration and Appendix in 1634 of the Supplements. Here too, I may ask you to give a sign in case of consent. . I note that this request was also unanimously approved and accepted. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG, according to which the Finnish and Swedish language version of the Agreement, annexed to the Protocol in accordance with Article 2 of the Protocol, as well as the Protocol concerning its Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish, must be made known in order to provide public access to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this procedure to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously decided. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with the verbal note, in 1691 of the Supplements. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report III-35 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of the report to give a sign. . I note that this report has been adopted unanimously. We have thus dealt with points 2 to 5 of the agenda. 6. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Doris Kammerlander and comrades concerning measures to protect whales (1821 of the supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 8. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution 987/A (E) by Dr Martina Gredler and others on the ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court (1825 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14626	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda. Here too, the debate is being held under one. Does one of the rapporteurs wish to speak? - That's not the case. Mrs Tichy-Schreder spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14654	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with the third block of proposals from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I have asked myself what these three applications, namely the request for measures to protect whales, the second request for measures to protect children in wars and armed conflicts, and the third request for ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, actually have in common, so that they are negotiated under one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Mrs. Dr. Gredler, you are perfectly right, they are opposition requests. Today we have already discussed common foreign policy. It is precisely these three proposals that show very clearly that Parliament is very likely to have a common foreign policy in this area. But I think it would be the worst thing to say that these are applications for opposition, which we all bear together, but I think, rather, they are applications which may not be known to the public, but are certainly for the protection of certain groups. They serve to protect whales, animals, on whose unfortunate situation was again pointed out in a daily newspaper published today. An Indian tribe from the United States rejoices that after years it has succeeded again in harpunizing a whale. I must say that it was the commercial whaling that caused great damage. We are of the opinion that measures must be taken in this regard in order to maintain walpopulation in our oceans. The fact that a number of positive things have also been done in this context has shown the Canadian Government, introduced the fishing bans, and contributed to the fact that the population of fish in the seas has once again partially stabilised. I think we can do something from the government side, and I believe that we should continue to work together on the whale commission in the future. I know that representatives of Austria are particularly involved. That is quite welcome. The second report deals with, I believe, a subject that is very moving us all, namely that children are being increasingly involved in military conflicts. A joint motion for a resolution is intended to try to take action at international level in order to raise the age of children recruited for armed conflicts, because there are very tragic cases to this end. Especially in countries where children are once mature, they are used to use in war conflicts. I believe that this should be prevented under all circumstances, and that we must become active internationally. In this respect, a joint motion for a resolution is intended to allow recruitment to begin at the earliest at the age of 17 years and not before, and that children under 18 years of age should not be used for active service at all. I believe that we should try to enforce this proposal internationally as well. The next request concerns the ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. It has been found that there is a broad international agreement on the use of this International Criminal Court, which is necessary to ensure that crimes can also be committed internationally. It also shows weaknesses, but it is necessary for us to find ways together worldwide to deal with crime in this area so that war criminals or dictators who commit particularly serious attacks can be put before this International Criminal Court. Unfortunately, God’s signatures are not yet available from important states such as China or the United States. I believe that we should make every effort to ensure that the Statute of this International Criminal Court can be adopted soon so that we can really oppose criminal regimes. There is a threat that war criminals will come before the International Court of Justice and that this is indeed an effective instrument against criminal regimes. Perhaps this is an approach to more peace in this world.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14706	Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14727	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too welcome these motions for resolutions, but I would like to make two comments on those concerning measures to protect children in wars and armed conflicts, as well as on measures to protect whales. Ladies and gentlemen! Red Cross and Red Hemisphere sound alarm because in armed conflicts, whether in regular armies or guerrilla movements, more and more children and young people under 18 years of age are being used. It is not only true that in African countries children are used in these wars even at the age of seven, but also in European countries, in industrialized countries – that was for me the new thing that there are such armies in industrialized countries – children who are already recruited to military service at the age of 16, for example in England, but also in the USA, where it is not common practice. However, the situation is unbearable in many countries of the Third World, where more than 300,000 children are in use as soldiers. Children who need the special protection of society are suffering there. As a reason for the increasing number of child soldiers, UNICEF indicates the mass availability of light weapons, which can also be easily used by young people. There is certainly no simple solution to the problem of child soldiers, but what they need is first and foremost simple education, a creation of consciousness in this matter and the deploration of the armies that put children in their service. There are six leading international NGOs – including amnesty international, "Human Rights" and "Terre des Hommes" – who have jointly launched a campaign to better anchor the rights of children in the laws at international level. It is essential that an additional protocol on the "Convention on the Rights of the Child" is introduced, in which, in the event of hostile conflicts, the convocation and use of persons under 18 years of age is prohibited. Secondly, we must ensure that former child soldiers can be disarmed, rehabilitated and integrated into society. I would also like to address a positive project here. In Austria there is actually a long tradition in this regard. A few years ago, the film "Is the devil really a child?" The Austrian journalist Margit Niederhuber is excited about the child soldiers in Mozambique. In addition, there has been work with these children in Mozambique, and I think that was really a very successful and positive work. On the second subject: Protection of whales. I believe that it is necessary for us to take a stand at the next annual meeting of the International Whale Commission and at the Conference on the Washington Convention on Species Protection in 2000 for the fullest possible protection of whales. I ask you, Mrs State Secretary, to engage in bilateral negotiations, particularly in talks and agreements with Japan – Japan is very interested in the trade in whale meat and whale products – but also with Norway, because the whales are, in principle, threatened by global pollution of the seas and by global climate change. I would also like to support the Greenpeace initiative, which is in place for the establishment of a global whaling area, because only when the world's seas are declared a world whale protected area can these intelligent marine mammals survive. I believe that Austria can prove again in both areas – and I think Austria has proved this very often in the past, if I think only of the anti-personnel mine campaign – that you can also take a very positive, critical position as a small country and indeed do a lot more in these international negotiations. In this sense, I would like to express my warm thanks to those responsible who will deal with these issues in these conferences.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14783	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14804	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution 902/A (E) on a fundamental basis, although it has a large number of errors, gaps and weaknesses. For example, the applicant may have overlooked, among other things, that there are no 18-year-old children in Austria. But what is much more important: He contradicts §§ 15, 16 and 17 of the Austrian Wehrgesetz. It would have been more reasonable and wise if one intended to change the law of the military, which allows for an earlier service. When you introduced it at the time, you thought something about it: In order not to give the apprentices a year of loss after completion of their teaching, but to give them the opportunity to perform the military service immediately thereafter, this age limit was deliberately introduced in Austria. But one probably only wanted to agree quickly to a well-sounding resolution and has not thought enough about it. The Ministry of Defence will also require a change in the school and study plan of the Military Realgymnasium, because the students at this institution at this age are beginning to take up their military service. However, this seems to have been overlooked by the ÖVP or the Ministry of Defence. But it is not the first time that the Minister of Defence and his ministry have overlooked something that one has to work hard to repair afterwards. This is not our case, it is the case of the Ministry of Defence. However, from fundamental considerations, because we think that the intention behind it is correct, we will vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14840	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14862	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that it was possible to reach a consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on materials which were actually very patiently waiting for their treatment. If I were to ratify the Statute of the International Criminal Court, I would of course wish it had been assigned to Parliament immediately after the Rome talks and after the Rome Convention. That was not possible until now. Mrs. State Secretary! They will certainly help us to ratify this document in Senegal and Sierra Leone, which are the first two states to ratify the Statute of the International Criminal Court, perhaps as a third country, so that it can be ensured that the installation of an International Court of Justice for cases of contempt for human beings takes place within and outside a territory as soon as possible. There should be the possibility of indictment and appropriate protection for the population, at least in retrospect. I am pleased that this has not been made a summit of this House, but that my request has been accepted by the government parties and we have been able to agree. The same applies to the protection of children in war conflicts and armed conflicts. In this context, I would like to thank the representative of UNICEF very much, who has vehemently advocated that we take this issue on the agenda in the Austrian Parliament and discuss it. [[The red light on the speaker's coil begins to flash.]] . I do not think I have entered a time limit, Mr President, but it does not matter that I will still try to be very quick. We from the Liberal Forum have taken this issue to the point of making this request. It is not about us wanting to "turn" Austrian law. Of course, it is not worth interrupting training or hindering the professional progress of young people. This is not at all the intention of the application. The intention of this request is to protect children from being used in military conflicts and to misuse them in order to carry out a so-called mine clearance. The mine clearance shall be carried out as follows: One sends the children through a mine-drenched field; those who have managed to survive, those who have stepped on a mine usually die. This is the way children are abused. And we want to protect these children! We are concerned about their lives and their physical integrity in this request, which we have made to liberals and which, fortunately, has come up with reasonable consent in the House. It is good that we have jointly found this position. It is unfortunate, I believe, that you are calling on things, Mr Jung, which are not so important in this regard. We can adapt Austrian laws, but we need an international approach with which we can also defend girls. Girls who are abused in armies who are forced to be recruited, not only to cook but also to satisfy other desires. The fact that this is being suppressed is a special concern for us, and we are also trying to protect these girls about this request. I believe that it is enough that in the last ten years 2 million children have been victims of wars. Another 6 million children were seriously injured due to war conflicts, and there have already been 1 million war orphans. It is high time for the international community to do more for the children of this world whose lives are threatened. How's a child living in Kosovo? How's a child like that? How can it enforce its rights if it is all alone? Does a child have the opportunity to come to Austria if it does not have any relatives who protect it in the camp and say: "Speak to the officials of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, maybe you have the opportunity to fly along, perhaps an Austrian family takes you in!"? - Maybe we should do more for these kids. There are enough Austrian families who would be willing to take up such children. The Caritas says that accommodation facilities made available to private persons are not exploited. That is, we still have opportunities in Austria and no, but we do not make them available to the most culpable beings of this earth. We should do more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14917	Mrs Kammerlander is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14938	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the fact that our proposal for the protection of whales - which I must stress - has received unanimous support, i.e. unanimity in the vote. I am therefore pleased that Austria has actually been able to profile itself in the context of the International Whaling Commission in recent years, not only with accurate and very correct opinions and attitudes, but also with its continuous work in this whale commission, due to the continued cooperation of all political groups on this issue. This shows that part of international work can work well, especially if there is a strong restraint in the relevant national bodies and, above all, in Parliament. Again: In this sense, I would like to thank you very much for supporting this request, and I think that cooperation will continue to take place, which will also give some importance to Austria's reputation in this Commission on whaling. On the other two requests, I can only say that we support them and are very glad that these have also received the approval and can be decided here in the House. I do not want to add much more to what my previous speakers have said, especially as regards measures to protect children in wars and armed conflicts. I just think that one of the next steps after such a request would be a stronger one, I do not want to say surveillance, but to show vigilance and show it when it comes to further armed conflicts. This results in some other activities also for a neutral country such as Austria. On the third point, the International Criminal Court, I can only say that I am very glad that we have ratified this Statute very quickly, after Austria, in particular, has been very strongly committed to the establishment of the Criminal Court within the United Nations. I should like to remind you that it is mainly due to Austria and also to the work of Professor Hafner that this statute of the Criminal Court has at all come to pass. For some time it seemed as if it would be delayed again to be pushed to the long bank. I very much welcome the conclusion that the Statute is now in place for ratification, and I hope that we are among the first signatory countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14975	The next speaker is Mr Amon. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14996	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I, too, would like to focus on the motion for a resolution on the abuse of children in the form of child soldiers, which is a five-party request and is therefore approved by all five political groups. I remember very well that debate in which Mr Gredler made her request. I have already said in the debate that I am convinced that we will meet in this regard and that it can only be taken for granted that the House is opposed to such measures. I am therefore pleased that this agreement could be found. Of course, I am surprised by my colleague, Jung, who once again tried to find a hair in the soup. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Mr Gredler has already correctly stated that today it is not about the Austrian Wehrgesetz that it is not about discussing this today. Skill Do you remember that ever in the history of the Second Republic of Austrian children had been used in a war? . It is completely absurd to bring this into the debate just to make this motion for a resolution ready. [[Abg. Young: No!]] However, I would like to congratulate the Group of the Liberal, Reformist and Reformist Party on the fact that, despite its new spokesperson, she has decided to do so and has been able to get through and overcome this motion for a resolution. If we know that, according to the reports published by UNICEF, more than 2 million children have been killed by wars in recent years, between 4 and 5 million children have been conjured up, that more than 12 million children have been driven out, that 10 million children have been traumatized due to war struggles and that millions of children have lost their parents, then it can be said that there is a need to take action to counter this horror internationally. Mrs. State Secretary! Please understand this motion for a resolution in support of the Foreign Ministry's policy, which is to be further motivated to support it in all international bodies, whether within the framework of the European Union or also of the United Nations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank UNICEF Austria especially for its use in this context. UNICEF Austria has launched a signature campaign with the child ambassador Thomas Brezina to combat the abuse of children as soldiers that are still running until the end of June, and of course everyone is welcome to join these calls. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I should like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that we have jointly achieved this motion for a resolution and that the Austrian National Council sends a clear signal against the abuse of children, especially as child soldiers, or also as mine cleaners or whatever. I am glad that there is this common signal. In this sense, Mrs State Secretary, I can only ask you, together with the Foreign Minister, to remain active in this regard. I am aware Your people will also be convinced that you will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15047	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Posch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15068	Mr President. My previous speakers have already said a lot about this request concerning child soldiers. In my view, it is not only about the child soldiers, but generally about the rights of children, because children are particularly affected by wars and wars, because there is a risk to life and life, because they are particularly affected in civil wars, but also because child labour, prostitution, sexual exploitation and so on, especially in Third World countries. In my view, therefore, it is primarily not only about child soldiers, but generally about the protection of children. Regrettably, the additional protocol to the Convention on Children's Rights has not succeeded in anchoring the minimum age for military service from 15 to 18 years, but at least universal ratification has succeeded. According to § 8 of the International Criminal Court, the forced recruitment of children under 15 years of age is prohibited and is committed as war crimes or is to be committed as war crimes, which would be an important progress, so I ask you to also urgently urge you to ratify this statute. Apart from the unsustainable situation in war zones, children from it need explicit protection and help. That is to say, childish reasons must also be taken into account in the asylum process according to my view, so not only the use of children as child soldiers, but also child labour, sexual exploitation or female genital mutilation are childish reasons. This does not concern you now, Mrs State Secretary, but there is no uniform age in asylum proceedings – currently 19 years – and in the Foreign Law – currently 16 years – regarding children's refugees. I believe that we should also do a lot of things about this from the Austrian side so that minor refugees cannot be put on a standstill in order to set up clearing facilities to examine childish reasons for escape, and in general to recognise that there are child-specific reasons in the asylum procedure. The second is the institutionalisation of the International Criminal Court. ==References== ==References== In July 1998 a diplomatic conference was held to create such a criminal court. This is a very important step towards the detection of the most serious international crimes there are: Genocide, crimes against humanity, systematic attacks against the civilian population, murder, slavery, torture, deportation, rape, apartheid, forced pregnancy, and war crimes and aggression war. At the time, 120 states voted in favour of this International Criminal Court, including Austria and all EU countries, regrettably seven states, but seven important states, including the United States of America, are opposed. In order to ratify this International Criminal Court, 66 countries were needed, ensuring that the independence of the court and the prosecutor is safeguarded, and for this the participation of the United States, particularly in the preparatory Commission, would be essential and of great importance, especially because 50 years after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, there would be the historic opportunity for the first time to create an effective institution to enforce it and thus enforce criminal prosecution of crimes against humanity. There have already been the first such tribunals: In 1945 at the Nuremberg trial, 1991 in Yugoslavia the Tribunal of The Hague, and 1994 concerning Rwanda the Tribunal in Arusha. Nevertheless, instead of this ad hoc tribunal, a permanent international tribunal would be better off than the state world, which fears above all the perpetrators, who ensure the security of the victims and the goal of preventing inhuman violence in military conflicts.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15114	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take up the seats for this purpose and perhaps continue the discussions with the staff after the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the 1821 Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. . This request was adopted unanimously. (E 181.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its 1822 report of the supplements. If you wish to take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This has also been done unilaterally. The application is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1822. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done in a single light. The request was accepted. (E 182.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its 1825 report of the supplements. If you would like to take note of the report, I would like to ask for the relevant sign. – This is done in a single light. The request is also accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the resolution annexed to the 1825 Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This has also been done unilaterally. That is why this request has been adopted. (E 183.) 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors pursuant to section 32e of the Rules of Procedure. 4 GOG on the examination "Promotions of the organisation "World Vision" by the Federation; in particular, clarification of the question of how these funding has come about (interventions, human relationships, parties, etc. Electoral financing), how the funding was carried out, evaluated and settled" (1823 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15219	We shall now proceed to item 9 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. The first mention is made by Mrs Apfelbeck. No time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15249	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions was set up by the National Council for the purpose of carrying out self-testing. The Standing Subcommittee shall act in the performance of this task instead of the Court of Auditors acting otherwise as the aid body of the National Council – with the same rights and obligations. For example, the Court of Auditors shall be empowered, inter alia, to request from the audited bodies at any time in writing or in a short time, any information it considers necessary. I therefore believe that this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors also has these rights. The questions to be examined by this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors should therefore be answered in full and directly without delay and provided with all the information requested. A successful performance of his duties would not be possible if there was a restriction on file, ladies and gentlemen. However, if the Court of Auditors were to carry out its audit task as this subcommittee, we would be able to remove it without replacement and save the taxpayer a lot of money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 17 The opposition requests were lowered by the majority of the rulers, stating that these were democratic decisions. It was not until the third committee meeting that selected information was to be consulted for the first time, but it was satisfied with debates on the Rules of Procedure and a decision to ask the Federal Ministries for a report. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Colleague! This is business order!]] Mr Lukesch! You quote the Rules of Procedure here. They confuse this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors with a "normal" Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors which you could use at any time. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You confuse him with a committee of inquiry!]] This, of course, has other rights, namely the rights that you now mean. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministries' willingness to participate in the Enlightenment was very limited. [[Calls and calls between Deputies Dr. Lukesch and Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] For example, the Federal Chancellor's Office has shown us the importance of this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. Instead of the requested survey report, we were only sent the answer to a parliamentary question by Mr Oellinger, but this was with reluctance and strict confidentiality – a question that every Member here in the House would have received anyway. No Member of the SPÖ or ÖVP has given rise to this. On the contrary: This procedure was still defended. As in the previous two audit contracts, I am already holding – 1997: Government procurement operations, 1998: Review of illegal incidents in the planning and construction of the close-to-earth route and, lastly, the donation scandal of "World Vision" – it is established that this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors was unable to fulfil its audit mandate and was unable to comply with it. You from SPÖ and ÖVP, with your "lived democracy" here in the house, have prevented you from being unexplained and unscathed how these funds were actually used by World Vision. With your living democracy – who has the majority – you have prevented a real control of what, who and how to examine and who may be questioned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! The Secretary of State has assured us that everything is in order. I say to you, Mrs State Secretary: That's not true. – A study on a project in Kinshasa sent to the Subcommittee alone states first that the project has failed to meet its obligations to the farmers for whom it was intended. For SPÖ and ÖVP, however, this is all right. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Certainly you have not mentioned this project study in your report. They write in the report: A damage has not occurred. Secondly, no seed, no fertilisers and no pesticides were provided to farmers during the seeding period. I ask you from SPÖ and ÖVP: When, if not at the time of sowing, should the farmers get the seeds? – And then you say from SPÖ and ÖVP that it’s all right! Thirdly, however, it has also been found that no storage books have been kept, while the population should be provided with 1 830 megatons of cereals, 210 megatons of soya and 177 megatons of long beans. But camp books were not kept. And then you say of SPÖ and ÖVP: It's all right. Fourth: This study also states, however, that there have been illicit payouts of 16 463 US dollars. That's what you say about SPÖ and ÖVP: Everything's all right. There's no damage. Fifth, you open a bottle The study also states that the project was not planned for profit. That is to say, the taxpayer would say in the folk mouth that this project has gone full of pants. When SPÖ and ÖVP write in their report: In summary, the Republic of Austria has not suffered any financial damage!, then I insist: The Republic of Austria has been very damaged. I blame you for preventing further clarification. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the present practice, the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors is a toothless instrument which in no way fulfils and can carry out its control tasks. It would therefore be absolutely necessary... – Mr Lukesch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] It's for you, that's it. You finally understand what rights this Standing Subcommittee has and should also have, should this Rules of Procedure be amended so that you too can finally understand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, private donors were also damaged. Now I ask you: Who are these private donors? – But mostly people who have very little of their own who want to calm their consciences with their donation, because there are people who are even worse, and who try with their donation to vote fate for them personally. These people, ladies and gentlemen, have a responsibility as SPÖ and ÖVP politicians. You have not fulfilled this responsibility! Here you have clearly failed in mutual coalition loyalty! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are honest with me, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you agree with this request. You owe it to the voters!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15397	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15421	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! The Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, set up by Parliament, has very probably dealt very intensively with the federal funding issues relating to the projects of World Vision. [[Abg. Oillinger: He hasn't even read the reports!]] Eight meetings have taken place, 16 persons have been invited, including high-ranking individuals: the President of the Court of Auditors, senior officials of the relevant ministries, and also Mrs. State Secretary Ferrero-Waldner or Mr. State Secretary Wittmann. [[Abg. Böhacker: The rest was silence and walls!]] There were reports, there were statements from the Constitutional Service, 12 or more written parliamentary questions and even a question here in the House. I believe that we have had a detailed opportunity to examine the accusations in detail. [[Abg. Oillinger: You don't believe that yourself!]] There are two conclusions. Conclusion point one: There is no indication, nor a single small indication that the federal government's public funds had been misguided. [[Abg. Oils: Many clues!]] Conclusion number two: There could therefore be no financial damage to the Federation. – These are the conclusions of the discussions of the Standing Subcommittee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On behalf of the Standing Subcommittee on Auditing: The task was to examine the proper use of the federal public funding. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the point! Not whether the project is useful or not!]] It is quite clear, Mrs Applebeck, that a distinction must be made. The Rules of Procedure are a Standing Subcommittee and not a Committee of Inquiry, as you would like it to be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] Point two: This Standing Subcommittee is not responsible for the conduct of the World Vision in relation to private donations. This means that the courts are responsible, and the courts will also examine the incidents that have come to the public. This Standing Subcommittee is also not responsible for examining the use of EU funds. The Austrian Constitution does not provide for any cooperation of this Standing Subcommittee with EU institutions. I would like to make that clear. That is why this Standing Subcommittee has more than fulfilled its task. The accusations you find in the minority report must therefore be strongly rejected! To the projects: The projects are not projects of the Federal Chancellery or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but these are projects of these many associations, these many non-profit organisations. Therefore, the examination can only be related to these projects and not to the associations and to the organisations. In fact, if we were to take a close look at all the associations that are seeking, there would be no single project to be realized. That must be clear to us. Therefore, the examination was only and only related to these projects. In order to cope with these promotions: There were and are very precise guidelines. For example, if you come to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for project handling, a Commission will decide. The Commission's decision shall be based on a checklist based on formal criteria. There's a promotion contract. There are bank accounts. ==References== In November 1998, there were no circumstances which would have opposed the promotion of these concrete projects. The opposition seems to be not about the facts and the information, but about making private development initiatives available to third world countries. It is already the question of where the accusations that benefit from the investigation stop and where they begin to harm the development cooperation. I suppose you'd rather be hurt. That is why we have, together a few weeks ago, tabled a resolution in Parliament on the seal of quality for donor organisations. [[Abg. Marizzi: Please answer me a question: Why is Habsburg running for another party?]] I believe that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice are required to make appropriate proposals concerning a seal of quality. I would therefore like to sum up once again: First of all, the Standing Subcommittee has complied with its obligation. All these processes could be checked. It must therefore be strongly rejected in the minority report that the audit order has not been carried out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15549	Mr Smolle has also been mentioned on the floor. No time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15570	Gospod predsednik! Gospa Državna secretary! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Visoki stupid!]] Visoki stupid! Khol, you've been so bad lately, I'd go in the last row in your place, but there's Amon who's more sympathetic to me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But now on the real topic. Ladies and gentlemen! As I believe, Mr Brix will report on an actual correction, namely to a correction of his own. Mr Brix said at the time that we were going to make it clear in the subcommittee that the matter was going to be resolved. Brix was the one who was a good climber for the ÖVP and said: Surely we also have at the SPÖ some affair or an affair up to the elections; then it stands 1: 1, so two affairs are not an affair. – This is the means of the government parties. It is the only craft that the government parties actually understand perfectly, namely the walling and covering of inconspicuous processes. Ladies and gentlemen! But now, of course, as I see, a third party will be added to the walls, because in a newspaper you can read: There is no scandal of Sichrovsky and Raschhofer. These are allegations that do not vote. – I would recommend the FPÖ to go to school soon with the government parties, because they will have to wall a lot more over the next few weeks, especially until the EU election. Ladies and gentlemen! It's about what's in news. As you then dement in the "Kronen Zeitung" is very thin. The FPÖ states: Raschhofer and Sichrovsky have not sponsored their specifics and life partners. - So far, so bad. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the real topic: We refer to the minority report that we have jointly adopted and that is behind the Liberal Forum. It also came out a little bit during the discussions. That means we could so to speak shine into the dark corners, but the light was too weak to see all the shit that is hidden in it and to get to the daylight, ladies and gentlemen! I am of course of the opinion that, when the next reform of the Rules of Procedure comes, it is necessary to strengthen the rights of opposition within the framework of the Subcommittee in the Court of Auditors, but also of the Committee of Inquiry. The criticism of the Court of Auditors in this matter, already presented in 1993, was simply ignored by the Federal Government. You've just continued to do this. The criticism of the Court of Auditors has not even been brought to the attention of the people of "World Vision Austria". There was also the misuse of public resources. This was also demonstrated by the Committee's examination at least on the verge – we were not allowed to clarify it at all. The excellent contacts of some ladies and gentlemen with the Federal Government, perhaps also with family members in the Federal Government, could be used to tap Austrian funds, by EU funds. Of course: The problem is that the money does not have a mesh. One could hardly follow exactly where the Schilling approved by the Federal Government went, because the whole thing was cast behind private donations. There was a lot of fake activities. There have been the unlawful use and irregularities in settlements, but the courts will give us a clear answer. The link between "Paneuropa" and "World Vision" is very unfortunate, because I believe that some of the ladies and gentlemen of Paneuropa are doing good work in some areas. It's a conservative organization; that's another thing. I believe that this is a rather active organisation, particularly in connection with the idea of Europe in some of our neighbouring countries. I had the opportunity to participate as a listener at some events. It is also clear, of course, that we need to do something about the testing institution for humanitarian organisations. It is not a question of organizations continuing to act as humanitarian organisations which do not have a corresponding certificate and which, as it were, simply send donations to them. The individual donor does not have the opportunity to follow his 100 S, 1 000 S or 50 S, but who make the herb fat, as we know, and often fill the donation pots, especially those who do not necessarily have the highest income. Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal of damage has been done, especially for the humanitarian organisations in Austria, but also for them. That's a damage that just can't be done well. What I do not understand is that there has been nothing programmatic in the discussions in this direction, namely clear considerations that we have something to do with it. What can a caritas, a red cross, the deacony, the "help work", the "people's aid" be done in the face of this "World-Vision-Austria" miscarriage?- Oh, my God! I have been involved in a number of projects, for example the 'helpworks' in Croatia, in Slovenia, in Bosnia. Together with the Austrian "Volkshilfe", I have implemented a large project for Bosnian children, which, according to their somewhat "unusual history" – I want to express it this way – has again shown a reasonable work. It is especially important to thank the many volunteers in these organizations. Of course it is also important to thank the many donors. We ask that these activities continue to be supported in this way. But as a Parliament, we are obliged to define the control mechanisms more clearly. That has also shown this investigation, however lean the result has been. We need very clear and more stringent control, and we have to consider who could take control of the many thousand donors. This will require some thought. Of course – this is a central point – the certification of organisations is also important, ladies and gentlemen. So the result is not what we expected. However, we have learned some things, but rather in by-sets, on side shows. Unfortunately, we have not been able to complete the work in such a way that we can say good conscience that we are producing a good report. But I refer to the minority report of the opposition. He shows some serious things. However, I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in future, especially as regards the Rules of Procedure, we will have to make some new rules. In this sense I note: It's a low result. I recognize the subcommittees and their work, but I expect the government parties to do so in the future not to wall and close immediately, thus preventing comprehensive and complete results. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Nowhere has been walled!]] Above all, I also expect more cooperative cooperation from the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15628	Mr Brix is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15649	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very grateful to Mr Smolle for finding that I said it was all right. I emphasize: As far as the audit mandate received by the Austrian National Council is concerned, everything is very well. For the audit order reads: It is the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the examination of the promotion of the "World Vision" organisation by the federal government, in particular, the question of how this funding has come about. The funding provided by the Federal Government to "World Vision", whether by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or by the Federal Chancellor's Office, was very good; we could see this in the meetings. [[Abg. Elder: Wrong!]] This is a fact, and therefore the audit order has been carried out primarily. [[Abg. Oil: Price Waterhouse Coopers!]] This report came after the last meeting had taken place, which was after the 12. May. But neither does this report show what you are interpreting in it, but there are other things in it that might be noted. But as far as the test report is concerned, it makes no sense to interpret something inside, which is simply not inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Apple beck.]] If Mrs Apfelbeck wants to have an investigation committee, she should get out of here and say it. This is the subcommittee of the Court of Auditors and not the committee of inquiry which you want from the liberals. But let me say something else. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you agree to a committee of inquiry?]] – That was not the question at all. Let me just say something. On this occasion, we have also examined other links, especially things that have come about in connection with Mr Habsburg. And there are, indeed, a number of things that happen to you – in Vienna – the gray bulbs, because they were partial things, which are simply not allowed to happen, but which have happened. I note that in the time, Mr Habsburg, who was sent by the ÖVP to the European Parliament and is still sitting there, he was a member of the board of directors of "World Vision" – by the way he is still; he is still a member of the board; either he does not know about association law or he is very sluggish about association law! – for example, it happened – and that is terrible! – that the four-eye principle has been abolished. By a decision of the Executive Board, the Managing Director, Mrs Krones-Taurer, was and is entitled to draw. And at this time all the painters with the donations of the Austrians have also taken place. But I'm stuck, as bad as this is: It is the task of an ordinary Austrian court to review that. And the court, I suppose, will determine what happened. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Steindl and Dr. Lukesch.]] Secondly, I note that, on the one hand, this Lord Habsburg and his friends who have taken care of him have, in fact, tried to use the Catholic Church as a sign of hanging out, and have based themselves on the teaching of the Catholic Church, but on the other hand, they have not been accepted by the Catholic Church, by the Conference of Bishops as a splendour organization, because they have just been promised that they are very sluggish about the money. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There were church people’s desires on their side!]] Thirdly, At this time, too, Mr. Habsburg – simply because he wanted to make advertising for himself – has been able to print monarchyAtlants with donations intended for a project in the developing countries, for example, according to the motto: That's how Austria was once, and that's how a Habsburg-Austria should be again! – which he probably still has given expression to. At the time, he used donations to advertise, and that was sent. That's a scandal! I give the right to all those who signed it, who stand by it. But one has nothing to do with the other, with the audit report. I'll put it together. As far as the audit mandate of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee is concerned, namely the proper examination of the funds, everything was fine. What affected the further action with donations, especially in connection with the ÖVP member in the European Parliament, Karl Habsburg, was a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15753	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15774	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Brix! This was a sad chapter which was just delivered: a sad chapter of discharge for a subcommittee in which the majority parties considered that everything was fine, although you and us together did not have many documents available but sufficient to prove that nothing was all right. Mr Brix! I also say: My initial hypothesis, when I started working in committee, was that the public funds would be all right, because I suspected that "World Vision" has operated so much that it has used public projects to reach new donations or sponsors in the private sector, and that the reputation of public projects can, as it were, be put to the test. However, when, not due to the work of the Subcommittee, Mr Steindl, I was told that there are problems in the Moçambique project that there are problematic points in the Congo project – I am going to list them – my starting hypothesis has not been kept. I would like to point out at the outset, and I will also document that you have refused to consult the Committee on the most important person. The most important person is certainly next to Mrs Krones – who, I would say, has given up some mystery by what she said, because it is not in accordance with what is evidenced or represented by her own statements in the public or the judicial authorities – Mr Wolfgang Krones. He is still the most important person for the Committee's work: Mr Wolfgang Krones, who made the bookkeeping at "World Vision"; Mr Wolfgang Krones, who is Secretary General at the Pan-European Movement; Mr Wolfgang Krones, who was also involved in the financing of the pan-European movement in the financial sector, with the Society of the Friends of the United Europe; Mr Wolfgang Krones, who worked in the Economic Federation in Vienna; Mr Wolfgang Krones, who was still cashier until 1998 at the JES, an organisation you certainly know about the ÖVP. He worked all over the world in finance. And that's where you say of the government parties: He's not interested in us! We don't need that! We know everything!Unknown term type: "%s".? They have said: The Secretary of State and the Secretary of State have explained everything to us, said that everything is all right, so we know everything, we do not need to hear and question these persons. That's not our job! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You want to check the club! That's a judge!]] They didn't want to explain! You have pursued fruitification policy, Mr Luke, for a long time only fruitification policy! When the reports of the two State Secretariats came, you nodded and said: Thank God we have something we can talk about! We're so happy already! I say to you on this majority report: As a narrative of what the two State Secretariats have presented, he is very good. You'll get a "Very good" for that. Perhaps you would have had to compress the content of what the State Secretariats have presented in the narrative a little more so that it really deserves a "very good". But as a contribution to the investigation, what you have presented in the majority report is to judge only with a "not enough". Ladies and gentlemen – and this concerns both government parties – must be introduced: There will be ten or 14 days before the final subcommittee meets, the test report by Price Waterhouse Coopers only received by our intervention. We would normally not have gotten this report. It was only in the opinion of the Secretary of State that there will be a final audit report by Price Waterhouse Coopers on the Congo project in March. Because I have worked this through, I then said at a meeting that we want this report. And thank God, the chairman of the committee has requested this report. We have tabled a request, and it has therefore been said that we do not need to make a request at all, but the report is on the way anyway. – He was not on the go, but it took 14 days, but after all, he came in English. Well, I can also accept, not everyone has to be able to speak English. He then came in German four days before the final subcommittee meeting. And what do we find out? – You have not even made it the basis of your final report! You have totally ignored this report, although this review report by Price Waterhouse Coopers contains an devastating criticism of the Congoi project! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You did not even mention him in the Subcommittee, although you had him!]] You have to imagine: Price Waterhouse Coopers notes: The project has not met its obligations to the farmers in Plateau de Bateke – this is part of the project – in the course of the preparation of the country, as contractually held. No seed or fertilisers or insecticides were provided to farmers during the seeding period. And the majority here in the house says: Everything fits. Further criticism – I quote –: The project was sub-assembly sub-assembly. A single manager was involved in all aspects of the project. They say in the majority report: Everything fits. That these managers, mentioned here, were also released by World Vision International because he committed serious crimes, you also pass. It has not even come to your mind to mention this, although elsewhere it is also noted. It goes on to say in the comments – and there it will be criminal, Mr Steindl! –, I quote: No storage books have been kept indicating the consumption or difference of seeds, fertilisers or goods. What do you want? What do you want to confirm? That the project was well managed if there are not even records? Do you want to sell us for stupid?- Oh, my God! It can't be possible for two government parties to say that it's all right, while a test report finds that nothing is documented in writing! And the manager got into a cash register. [[Deputies Mag. Steindl and Dr. Lukesch:Read on!]] Would you like me to read this to you, Mr. Lukesch? Do you want to hear about the manager? – I quote: "Unauthorised payouts of USD 16 463 were carried out on the one hand", and so on, "to provide the SAFAR project with a computer at the expense of the KIGEPRO project and, on the other hand, to cover the personal expenses of the former local director. This amount has been covered, as set out in note 7." [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Covered is called "recovered"! That means "repayed"!]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: Learn English!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He can only Russian!]] – Read also note 7, read the relevant articles. I'll hold on to this. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Secretary of State, presented to us in the Subcommittee on Development Policy Cooperation guidelines indicating that this project should only be supported by a maximum of 35 per cent; Directives indicating that the project operators should first bring in own resources. I'll hold on to this. According to the documents of Price Waterhouse Coopers, the project in the Congo, because it is not the focus of development cooperation, has not, as agreed in the guidelines, been funded by 35 percent – and not as you write in your majority report, because you can't even hold the numbers properly, with 25 percent – but it has been funded with 65 percent public funds. [[Abg. May. Steindl: This project is not yet completed!]] Over a period of one year, these funds were the only ones that were brought into the Austrian project. No funds have been provided from "World Vision", but the share of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been transferred to the account of "World Vision" and located there for months. I emphasize: for months! Then "World Vision" did not even pay the full share for the Congo, but held back a bit. Mrs Krones has needed this for other expenditure. – But you note: everything is fine, all the guidelines are complied with! That's grotesque! That's absurd! This has nothing to do with the reality that we would have had to investigate. You have not complied with the Funding Directive in any way! [[Abg. May. Steindl: This is a ongoing project!]] You have not checked the credibility of the promoter, although, according to a note in the funding guidelines, you should have checked who is entitled to draw "World Vision". It might then have been possible that Mrs Krones alone was entitled to draw 17 accounts. I repeat: for 17 accounts! – But you say: We don't care, that's a credible club. Second project. The Moçambique project is actually – as the Secretary of State has admitted – not an Austrian project, which was subsidized with Austrian funds, but a US project. It is a joint project of "US-Aid" and "World Vision International". The Austrian share of this project is reduced by the fact that the Federal Ministry of Finance has paid funds. Where are we going in development cooperation when the Austrian share in an Austrian development aid project is that we are paying money into a US project?- Oh, my God! Let us do this so that it is the way the Secretary of State has said: "We are shareholders in the big "US Aid" commitment, we are at the pulse of the event, we are giving a small contribution!"? You know, Mrs. State Secretary, that this commitment has only been made because Ms. Krones, as a representative of "World Vision", had commitments to "World Vision International": the payment of the annual amounts that must be made to "World Vision International". This is part of the contract within this organization. Mrs Krones had no money because she used it elsewhere. That's where she thought: Then we are doing a good project together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will give us a bit of money, and that is what we are going to do as our contribution to "World Vision International". I may refer to the following: 75 percent of the cost of this Mozambique project has been paid by "US Aid", 25 percent of the share of "World Vision International". And due to a request from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we know that the share of "World Vision Austria" in the share of "World Vision International" was 15 percent. That means exactly – you can calculate it – 4 percent of the total project amount has been spent by Austria. And of these 4 percent, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has financed 2 percent, i.e. half, good faith. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch:... the collaboration you have always required!]] And one sixth of all Austrian project resources has been introduced into the form of a jeep! The Jeep, whom Mr Krones drove to Vienna, was shipped to Mozambique. He didn't want to use him anymore, he had a new car. He didn't want to use it in Austria anymore. Money had no longer had "World Vision Austria" at that time, because this was otherwise needed for the private expenses of Mrs Krones. So you brought in a jeep as a share of own resources. The shipping costs alone were horrendous! Mrs State Secretary, you have at least achieved that duty has been reduced again. But I am not proud that 300 000 S of customs, which would have been paid to and for this insanity comic, is the "success" of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It should have been paid almost as much as the vehicle was worth at that time. The value of the Jeep at that time was 370 000 p. This is one sixth of the project costs if you charge the transfer costs. And then you say of the majority parties: We have done a good project, we have moved a jeep from Austria to Mozambique, and you will probably need it in a project?! – Yes come You're not being ridiculous at all? Come on. If you really believe that a used jeep of Mr Krone, which has become a little too unlegislative to him, is being shipped to Mozambique, which would have meant 800 000 S effort with customs costs? [[Abg. May. Steindl: Is this recognized by the Ministry? Is that reckoned?]] - That's what we're asking! We have still not received any information about this! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oillinger's fairy tales are these!]] I'll hold on to this. Just as the Court of Auditors' criticism of the Eastern Aid project was not observed by either the Federal Chancellery or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – and at that time it was already true that the project promoters had not even been informed of the Court of Auditors' criticism – are so few You are now ready to observe the criticism and to deal with the fact that at least the Congo project was lazy from the front to the back. This is a misuse of public funds with which this was supported! And you keep this abuse the bar! This is the accusation you have to make! You know just as well as I do that the projects that the country of Lower Austria has made with "World Vision" – the key to village renewal – include lazy eggs. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: How do you know?]] You know as well as I do that the funds the country has spent on the Bad Ischl training centre have been invested in a project that is lazy. You know just as well as I do, ladies and gentlemen, that the projects, the "World Vision Austria" has accounted for with the EU, do not even appear in the documents that have been submitted to us in committee! [[Abg. May. Steindl: These are allegations, please! How do you know that?]] You would have had the opportunity to check the revenue-expenditure bill submitted to us by "World Vision". There is nothing in there of a receipt of funds, neither from the Federal Chancellery nor from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor from the EU projects that took place at this time. – Yes, is that a good accounting? Can you agree to an accounting that has not even been documented, that money has been taken and money spent, that has been passed on to the project, and say: That's all right, the use of public funds is well documented!Unknown term type: "%s".? – You can’t! As a conclusion, I can only say one thing: You are right, the Subcommittee was a teaching for me. It was not a question of examining something. They didn't want to investigate! Before any document, in front of any document that somehow seemed to be in it, something that could be critical, you have closed your eyes and said: No, please, don't look at that, please, don't ask someone who could say something, please, don't do anything, we believe everything anyway! – You have given faith in a tour. In this form – you are right – the Subcommittee has certainly not complied with its mission to investigate the use of public funds in connection with "World Vision" and also the link between "World Vision" and "Paneuropa". But this is your fault and your responsibility as a majority that you have completely consciously walled because you have held Mr Habsburg – and this is also the responsibility of SPÖ – until the end! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But you didn't read the report! You have apparently never read the majority report!]] The K. u.k. Coalition held Mr. Habsburg's bar, because of course she did not want to harm him, because, even if he was to say goodbye, she did not want to let him go of him unhonorably, because it also casts a slightly bad light on his own reputation, if one also throws some stones at Mr. Habsburg. Then he might be able to throw back a few stones, Mr. Steindl!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16021	Mr Stampler has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16042	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This Standing Subcommittee was then set up as an instrument of the Rules of Procedure to carry out important checks. Its creation means strengthening and increasing the rights of the parliamentary opposition. I therefore do not understand why opposition politicians are now calling this instrument toothless and pointless. [[Abg. Oillingers: You can be pretty cynical! This is a satire you're presenting, isn't it?]] And if this instrument is toothless, then I understand even less why you are constantly making applications, because then it actually has no effect. But one thing has to be said: A subcommittee is not a committee of inquiry. Some of them may have wanted to refunction him by trying to bend the Rules of Procedure. And the observance of the Rules of Procedure is then regarded in the minority report as an attempt to hinder work. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have to stay on the bottom of the facts: The survey of persons invited to this Subcommittee must not be conducted in such a way as to result in an interrogation. I reject the accusation that the government parties were trying to hinder the work of the Subcommittee. There were at least eight meetings during which 16 persons – including the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State – were invited to inform, and of course it was always about the proper use of public funds. For the examination of the use of private donations, ordinary courts are responsible, so says the Constitution, and I believe that we should also stick to the separation of legislative and executive. As far as EU funds are concerned, the control bodies are also responsible for this audit. Let's stick to the public funds. When the accusations against the management of "World Vision Austria" became known in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the funds for the projects of "World Vision" were immediately frozen by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is to say, there were no further payments, there was a recovery of the unaccounted funding, there were other billing operations that no longer took place, because of the fact that various documents were handed over to the economic police. Information on the projects that have been funded has also been collected immediately. And here I am with another argument: The opposition parties always act as if the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs's funds were flown into any cash registers of "World Vision". – That’s not true! It is only project funding for individual projects, but not association funding. The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not violated its own guidelines, but it has also used the development law of 1974. The fact that the Ministry was at no time able to control the project is therefore not correct. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again: We are interested by the ÖVP in the fact that the use of private donations is completely clarified by the ordinary dishes – but precisely by the courts! Finally, it should be noted that: The Standing Subcommittee has fulfilled its obligations, and the Ministries have done their best. EU donations fall into EU competence, and the use of private donations will be reviewed by the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16081	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Schweitzer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16102	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stampler, perhaps to the final clarification: A subcommittee can be installed on any committee, but the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors is a committee in which the same rights are valid as in the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is a committee in which it is quite appropriate to ask very detailed questions as to what has happened. And if you continue to confuse this detailed question with a committee of inquiry, that is why, above all, you probably had the feeling that detailed questions could promote something about Habsburg, "Paneuropa" and "World Vision", which might be unpleasant to the EIA. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Not we, you have confused it!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come back to that again, I have enough opportunity to deal with it. One thing I have to say: Mr Oellinger, who has been most concerned with this matter and has clearly shown that public funds have not been used properly, that bills that would have been necessary have simply not taken place, that many projects have suffered from many shortcomings and dubious operations. He worked it out in a minute. High regard! Now to you, Mr Steindl, and to how you are dealing with Mr Brix – he was not always sure whether he should be playing there, whether he should always act as a coalitionist; Mr Tegischer is my witness – in eight committee meetings, he prevented the actual outcome from being achieved. Brix sometimes got a little bit of a swing, said: Let's just put a little bit on it, let's see how much the ÖVP holds! It was obviously not much. He was then – that was so obvious – rebuffed by an employee of the SPÖ club, his nickname is "Peppo". He told him: Boy, now you've gone too far, but now is the end, now no more opposition applications are decided. Mr Tegischer said at the time that she was quite depressed about this process. This already shows that these stories have been dealt with in some way with in a large-scale way, in order not to give the opposition the opportunity to promote some sort of grip. Mr. Steindl, you listed what happened. I can list you – and we have done so in our report to the Subcommittee – which has not happened. They have always rejected a number of requests that should have served to find the truth with dubious reasons. They said that we don't need it all for the truth finding. Only the number of people you didn't load is 14. We have requested the charge of 14 people who have rejected you! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and SPÖ! Why did you reject these charges? It would have been interesting to hear what people have to tell us. They also rejected applications for other means of information, including a request to the Federal Chancellor's Office, which should have given some information on fees for the benefits of "World Vision" projects. Or: ==References== In April 1999, the Austrian Bishops' Conference rejected the request to invite informed representatives. It would have been very interesting to talk to these representatives. Or: You will be present at the meeting on 12 February. The request was rejected by Commissioner Emma Bonino in May 1999. It has said that, within the framework of its rules of procedure for cooperation with national parliaments, it would like to support the subcommittee of the Austrian National Council in its investigations. It would have liked to have provided us with documentation on the projects "World Vision Austria" has made available in the ECHO, PHARE, TACIS and Socrates programmes. Yes, please, Mr Steindl, why have you rejected this request with your partner SPÖ? Why have you rejected the fact that the EU Commissioner provides information? [[Abg. May. Steindl: We have no competence as a subcommittee at all!]] She was willing to provide information on questions. Why Have You reject this offer? [[Abg. May. Steindl: We have no competence as a subcommittee at all!]] You should have just agreed to this, and we would have received clear information. But after all, with this tactic and a completely inadequate Rules of Procedure, you have succeeded in making it impossible for you to explain without delay. [[Abg. May. Steindl keeps a printed sheet of paper in height.]] As you have just given me a note, I would like to tell you the following, Mr Steindl: We have at least noticed that "World Vision" paid 220 000 s to the "Society of the Friends of a United Europe" to dubious rent. 220 000 s to dubious rent! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: This is a scandal!]] And now I'm gonna tell you something: Mr Steindl! I've got documents from Bauer Druck. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Do not confuse apples with pears!]] Bauer Druck has produced prints for "Paneuropa" and for the election movement of Karl Habsburg. The invoices were paid by "World Vision Austria". Mr Steindl! Here's the evidence! [[The speaker shall keep copies of payment documents up to date.]] The invoices were paid by "World Vision Austria", drawn with Krones-Taurer. Yes, you don't care! Obviously you didn't care until the story was over with Habsburg! But we'd be interested in all this! I say: They have managed to cover up a lot of what the public would have a right to learn.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16212	Mr Gusenbauer has also been mentioned. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16233	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Alfred, don't say anything!]] Mr Schweitzer! It was therefore not necessary to invite further information, because essentially everything is clearly at hand and because, in reality, not only we but also the public has already drawn the conclusions from this case. The criminal part of the matter will have to be done by the courts, and the misuse of donations by "World Vision" is recognized by all as unprecedented and scandalous. It is also quite obvious that there is a humanisation between the "Pan-European Movement" and "World Vision" and that there are obviously cross-links of individual actors in the ÖVP, from a section head in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the General Secretariat of the ÖVP, to the MEPs in Europe Karl Habsburg. These cross-border links are infidelity, need no further investigation and are conscious to everyone. The head of this whole matter, this entire scandal, is evidenced by the couple Krones, who served as a sign of Mr. Karl Habsburg, but who at the same time also served as a benefit of this entire reconnaissance of "World Vision" and "Paneuropa". [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Very well analyzed!]] We do not need to comment on the opinions made available to us by the Secretary of State. They are financially defying, they are from the development policy point of view. To say, these projects meet the general standards of the Austrian development policy projects, there would be an insult to the countless, many good projects of Austrian development policy. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as on representatives of the Freedom and Liberal Forum.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Nor is it surprising that there has been an increase in the number of projects for "World Vision" from Austria and the European Union exactly when Karl Habsburg appeared for this organization. And in my opinion, that he had first and foremost the function of a 'door opener', he has not, in my opinion, been dubiously disputed in my interviews. I found the surveys partly degoutant, the answers reflected a self-absorbing will and did not help clarify, to the extent that I believe that a continuation of this subcommittee would not have brought much – except an insult to the present Members who have tried to bring light to this whole matter. It is and remains a scandalous matter. For us, it is about freeing the good organizations in this country from the shadow of uniosity that has fallen upon many organisations through the scandalous appearance of "world vision". Therefore, it will be necessary to draw consequences of legal nature as well. Parliament has decided on a motion for a resolution expressing its desire to have a gift seal. This donation seal and its criteria will be subject to the compliance of organisations. The organisations, which are equipped with the donation seal, can then be accepted with good conscience by the population and perceived for donation. The preparation of the relevant templates is before the conclusion, they will then be discussed and ensure that the good organizations are questioned and not harmed by the scandalous behaviour that individual people have shown in the "Pan-European movement" and in the "World Vision". In fact, that was deguant and harmful.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16288	The speech was made next to Mr. Dr. Lukasch. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16318	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, I agree with you on one point, but that is all I agree with you. They gave the impression here that the Standing Subcommittee would not have done everything in its power to actually control and detect the use of public funding. They do not take into account what happened to the private donations that went to the private association "World Vision". [[Abg. Ollinger: But stop the fairy tale!]] [[Abg. Edler: This is the scandal!]] It's with the courts. [[Abg. Edler: What you hear!]] And I'm telling you, that's where we're going. The Austrian People's Party has a specific interest in clarifying what has happened to public funds at "World Vision", whether these are funds that the Federal Government has channelled into projects in the context of development cooperation, or whether they are private donations. [[Abg. Oils: That's not true!]] The Austrian People's Party is interested in a complete investigation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also not the case, as Mr Schweitzer has said here, that one has done, because there was a Karl Habsburg, who played a role in "World Vision". [[Abg. Oellinger: We have actually proved this, Mr. Colleague!]] Mr Habsburg has been reminded of twice in the Subcommittee and has been questioned, and the report of the majority groups speaks a clear word. [[Abg. Oillinger: He remained guilty without evidence!]] If one had performed the functions of a board of directors in "World Vision" with the care of an ordinary Member, this affair would not have happened to such an extent. That is what this report says. That's what we're standing for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He can't reveal himself!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You're cleaning up now!]] But, Mr Oellinger, your claims are, I would say, a mixture of imagination, inventions and half-truths. [[Abg. Ollinger: I quote test reports!]] I'm taking out a project, the Mozambique project. This is under ongoing control when we have a development cooperation office there, whose head confirms after an audited letter that this project is kept informed, accurate and correct in its overall assessment – target and result-related working methods. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Oils: Militaryly led!]] So they say only half the truth, and that is typical of the role of the opposition she has to play in this house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You mean the American project! That was a US project!]] A second is also typical: on the one hand, the permanent mixing of an order from a Standing Court Subcommittee with the mandate of a committee of inquiry and, on the other hand, the mixing of the use of public funding with those private grants. Please note, Mr Oellinger – even if you do not want to see what Mr Wabl did in the previous subcommittees – that we have a federal constitution, and this separates the forces. You can't be investigative, investigative, decisive court, legislator and inspector in a person! Follow the Austrian federal constitution! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Oils) Even if you're having a hard time!]] Her minority report speaks of "the advance organisations of the ÖVP" and apparently means the "Pan-European movement" and "World Vision". [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] I would like to point this out the most decisive. Both organizations are not front-end organizations of our party! At "Paneuropa" I can't imagine that at all. Is the public aware that the chairman of the Freedom Party, Mr. Landesführer Dr. Jörg Haider, has been on the Board of Directors of the Pan-European Movement for many years? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Excessive!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] How do you actually get to talk about a "pre-eminent organisation of the ÖVP"? The same applies, of course, to "World Vision", which is not a precursor organisation of the ÖVP! I'll get you together. The Republic has not suffered any financial damage from the promotion of these projects through "World Vision". The development objective and the achievement of the objectives are being examined. In the moment when the organization "World Vision" has been suspected, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has responded immediately and called for the repayment of the funds not yet settled. They've been transferred to a trust account. A general examination of all organisations wishing to cooperate in development is impossible. [[Abg. Oillingers: The others are checked exactly!]] Hundreds of organisations are set up to make support projects in the developing countries directly with the population and to get public funds for them. If we were to examine with each association whether it is statically also properly composited, then this would be an overload and would ultimately make the direct commitment of Austrian non-governmental organizations in development cooperation, in particular with the population, impossible, and then we would come back to a promotion: Government towards government, something that is not optimal – that will also be said by Mr Gusenbauer – and which we have long rejected. We call for the seal of donations for those organisations that collect aid, and we call on the appropriate ministers, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance, to make the motion for a resolution – I assume that it was unanimous, as the President would say – to do the fastest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16596	The next Mrs. Jäger is speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16618	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of "World Vision" there is nothing to beautify and not to apologize for. It explains to the Austrian judicial system those areas in which the suspicion of criminal offences exists. In this context, I am particularly sad that the reputation of all Austrian development aid organisations, which do excellent and proper work, has been damaged by this debate and that the Austrians, who willingly donate because they want to do something in front of the misery, the starving children in front of them, have been disappointed. There's a need for action. I also have to criticise the fact that this organization has been acting negligently, since it has been active in Austria since 1985, and has been in the media again and again, for example, in the "profile" or in the "developmental news", criticism of this organization. There were allegations in connection with the pediatric pediatric pediatrics, as there were inconceivable advertising methods, there was an exorbitantly high administrative share in the project process, one of 40 percent, while in other organisations only 15 percent went to the administration, there was no transparent financial delivery. The organization "World Vision" wanted to join AGEZ twice – there all Austrian development aid organisations are united – but twice their admission was rejected. All of this must have been known to the office. [[Call at ÖVP:The Federal Chancellery too!]] It was also expressly forbidden by church bodies, by the coordinating body of the Austrian Bishops' Conference of the Organization "World Vision", to claim to carry out their calculations according to the criteria of the Church's organizations. "World Vision" was rejected from AGEZ because the annual report and the settlement guidelines of this organisation did not meet the requirements of AGEZ. All other development aid organisations adhere to these. "World Vision" had not adhered to that. This means that "World Vision" had a bad reputation in the developmental scene. However, this organization – no, I only had four minutes of speaking time, I would have liked to agree – was provided with financial resources to an insignificant extent, including from the EU. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: May I ask you a question?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why did you not agree to a charge of a representative of the Episcopal Conference?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You had! But you don't have!]] It was at least 130 million schilling. Without a doubt, there has been a connection with EU member Karl Habsburg and also with the fact that a number of ÖVP officials were on the board of directors. I have to say: The insight into this board was shocking for me. I've never seen a club that works such dubios! I believe that we must learn from this situation. Criteria should be established for co-financing projects, including in connection with the new Development Assistance Act. I wonder, Why do we support the development aid organization of an American church or, as one would say in Austria, sect? Why do we finance projects of "World Vision International", although we have enough decent, good Austrian, but also good international organisations to support? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You must ask the Federal Chancellor! Ask your party president!]] Finally, I would like to say: I also welcome the creation of a gift seal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16703	Mrs Tegischer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16725	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Our respect for the monarchy is limited. I think we agree. I would therefore like to highlight the role of Mr Habsburg a little closer. One thing is clear: By his sounding name, because he is an EU Parliamentary – still is – he was used by "World Vision Austria" as a train horse, and he was actually – or should it have been – the guarantee for the serious use of public resources. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: He is the train horse of the ÖVP!]] I found the attempt of Karl Habsburg to present himself in committee as a victim of his own ignorance and inability to do so embarrassing; he is actually unworthy of a popular representative of a People's Party called "Christian". In my opinion, his blind trust has limited his naivety when he believes that he has been shamelessly exploited by "World Vision", and as a lapidary report at the end of his life: Well, I have learned from these negative experiences and will remember it for the future! I simply find this behaviour of Karl Habsburg as a public person and people's representatives irresponsible. I myself work in three committees and also on the board of directors and I know about the financial presentation in the associations that operate with donations and public funds. I feel it is my duty to inform myself – if I can't be present – and send the protocols to me. In this context, I would also like to say that it seems that Karl Habsburg only adhered to the programme of principles and trusted it, according to which - I quote from the statutes - the basic Christian attitude and commitment to the poor ensure that the funds of the sponsors, the donors and public funds are handled with the best possible means of achieving the goals sought with the help of God. – This is a very blue-eyed approach for the blue-flowered Habsburg. I would now like to say a few words about the sponsors that have been raised. It really bothers me: It will be advertised again on the Internet with these sponsors, where you can choose whether it should be a boy or a girl, and where the donors are precipitated to take care of a child personally. It is also pointed out that one can get to know his father’s child. I find this to be unscrupulous and irresponsible. I would therefore like to point out once again that the wrong information is used to kill donors. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Now a few comments on EU funds. To this end, I would like to say the following: I spoke personally with Mr Bösch, and he assured me that the members of the EU – at least the SPÖ-EU MEPs – will ensure that the actions are checked in the independent anti-fraud office. Finally, I would like to say: I trust it or hope that this resolution will help to ensure that there will never be such an affair in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16766	Mr Edler is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16788	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Knowledge of today's deliberations should be as follows: It is certainly not essential to invigorate the Standing Court of Auditors when a court procedure is under way. We have always had to find out in the deliberations that there are problems with the information subjects because they have appealed to the current court proceedings. One thing is fixed, ladies and gentlemen, and this also shows the public debate: in this case it is about a fundraising affair of 15 million schilling. I can only say one from my side: The ÖVP cannot speak up because there are not only links with the EU member Habsburg, but also with other persons, including persons working in the General Secretariat of the Austrian People's Party. It would be appropriate to address the question to Mrs Rauch-Kallat, to what extent she was informed of her staff, because Mr Girardi was delegated there. What has the Commissioner done to clarify the matter earlier? Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to put the following in the foreground: I believe that we are jointly invited to deal with this case. Especially in view of the great donations of the Austrians, it is appropriate that we really look at clean club events. As far as the seal of goodness is concerned, I believe that this project should at least be supported so that the donations really benefit only those people who are in need and really need this money. To sum up, I would like to say: I believe that the court proceedings will show that many questions will still have to be resolved in political terms. [[Abg. Oils: When?]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Parliament will then have to deal with it again. Now only public funding could be discussed, and we came to the conclusion that the public funding was in principle settled in order. [[Abg. Oillinger: Have you been advised or advised about public funding?]] But unfortunately, as has already been said, the way in which private donations are handled is the case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16842	The next Mrs. State Secretary, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16864	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few general remarks; then I would like to address some of the accusations made here. Ladies and gentlemen! Development cooperation is a task which must be carried out by the State, private and joint. In particular, private involvement plays a particularly important role in development cooperation – but not only in terms of scope, but above all in terms of partnerships on which long-term development cooperation can eventually be built. Especially in Austria, this private sector is very diverse. Think of city partnerships, self-control groups, parishioners, individuals, the many associations. Hundreds of millions of schilling are private. This is why I have found that private commitment deserves recognition and support. That is why we have come to this co-financing concept, which is also being debated here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The project design – and this is something that has always been mixed here in the debate – is, however, part of the initiatives. We only give co-financing and have drawn up our own rules of procedure for awarding and billing. – That was my first comment. My second comment: I would like to make it clear here once again – I have already done so on 18 November. February in the Subcommittee said – that not "World Vision Austria" was promoted as an organisation – you have presented or assumed a few times – but just two development projects, which are clearly based on the relevant criteria – there is a criteria catalogue; this has also been addressed today – have received grants. At the moment – and this has also been made clear in the Subcommittee – when irregularities were known, the federal government's public funds – were immediately frozen and reclaimed and paid back on trust accounts. Ladies and gentlemen! I could go into a lot of details, but I'm just going to deal with some accusations. Before that, however, I would like to say the essential thing, because this too has been tabled by Mr Ollinger: There was no indication, ladies and gentlemen, that these claims would have been granted on the basis of the intervention of any person. I have explained to you in the Subcommittee exactly how our Commission works from officials. I did not know anything about it at all, but I would be right to do so if I had known it, because it was absolutely done according to the criteria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next point I will address is the following: Of course, technical implementation and evaluation of development projects can always be discussed, ladies and gentlemen, but here it was not about federal projects, but it was about promoting – I have tried to put this out – private initiatives that we want to promote in order to achieve more development cooperation and more assistance. The Price Waterhouse report, which has repeatedly been cited here as an alibi for criticism, is a purely book-examining report – let me speak out! – which holds the financial status on the spot. [[Abg. Böhacker: So what?]] This is not a content report on the quality of these projects. We have now, after Price Waterhouse here, some irregularities, especially in the Congo project, have been commissioned by another real development project evaluation agency, namely a Swiss company called KEK, to look at this again. In principle, however, we cannot examine every project on the content of this special programme. This is just a specific programme. Now allow me to address the minority report, which was presented here as if it were all wrong in the majority report. Firstly, it says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was at no time able to control the project. – That is by no means true, because we had constant interim reports. Only on the basis of the interim reports will further instalments be paid, and only because of this could the funds be retained immediately and then recovered. – So this first point is not right. Second point: As you have said today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has violated its own funding guidelines, which say that our share of funding is 35 percent, whereas the amount of own resources is 65 percent. You said that was exactly the other way round. You have not seen, however, that, of course, the total sum, the final amount, and not the rates that we have paid, must be taken into account. We have actually paid higher rates, but that is not at all questionable, that is not at all negative, but that is always the case with projects, which depends on the progress of the project. – So your statement is half-truth in this respect too. That's not correct. You have also assumed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through its, as you say, generous pre-financing, has enabled the association "World Vision Austria" and its promoters to provide temporary funding. - You didn't know exactly. That's not true either. Because if we pre-finance a little longer and then it will only be paid back later by "World Vision Austria" or others, then interest will be paid back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. - So that's wrong, too. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The "World Vision" project, you say, has missed essential project goals. This means that seeds are said not to have been spent. That's why, because I want to check that too, I just switched on this KEK company. Price Waterhouse, which is a pure book audit company that has no idea of development evaluation, has not written why seed has not been issued. You know that there is civil war in the Congo. It could also have been – I don't know yet, but it could be, and you already assume here that the project was wrong – that it was perhaps not possible because of that, or maybe it could not be spent, because it is just a dry period. – So I would ask for a little more accuracy in this context too. You expect this from me, but I think we can expect this from a minority report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The farmer can also be given the seed in a dry period!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] You also addressed this jeep. Such projects – and this was a agricultural project in Mozambique – sometimes require a vehicle. This was clearly determined by our coordination office in Beira, Mozambique. A second thing is that the customs duty there, because it was not well-informed – we have now asked ourselves – has made a requirement for customs. It is, of course, a matter of course – I do not regret this – that we have, of course, called for Mozambique to withdraw this requirement for customs duty. Of course, this has been done. – So this is not at all to be addressed here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point I would like to address is: They have spoken so strongly that the Mozambique project is only a small Austrian share. I have examined it, we have come to 15 percent Austrian share. But please, are you bothering me? Do you not want us to pursue development policy, which you always have development policy objectives? It's not tragic. We should not be so chauvinistic that we say that it must necessarily be an Austrian project with an Austrian flag or a Austrian mascherl. It is important that people be helped! Furthermore, you can document this very well, and there in the area is always clear who belongs to the sponsors. – I wanted to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16946	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. Second word. Time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16967	Mrs. State Secretary! In fact, this could just as well be a response, a correction, I make a speech from it. You said: Let us look forward to the fact that there are private project promoters. – I mean so, here I am your opinion. But if the private project promoter, as in the example of the Mozambique project, is not an Austrian association, but "US-Aid" together with "World Vision International", if there is no documentary Austrian share in this project – and this has been dealt with several times in the Subcommittee – then this has nothing to do with the thing you propose here together and which we would agree with. [[Abg. Dr. Moser-Starrach: That's not true!]] It has not been a private Austrian project, but the name of "World Vision Austria" has been used to bring project funds into an international project. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Second point: the Jeep. You have now said in your opinion that there is an opinion from the Beira Coordination Bureau. I read to you from the response from your ministry – I suppose you have to answer it – what it contains regarding the vehicle: "There is no opinion from the EZA Coordination Office Beira on this issue." Yes, what's right now, Mrs. State Secretary: What you're saying here, or what you sent us two days ago in the answer? Third point: Example Congo Project: If you tell us that there are development policy guidelines, but at the same time, Mr Steindl says they haven't done so at the time – what is the case then? At that time, these development guidelines did not apply. They have explained to us in the Subcommittee that they apply. The project is also reviewed by the Austrian municipal credit. I asked myself: She's not checking the project. The Congo project, explained to me the Austrian municipal credit, has not been reviewed by it. And you say that's going to be checked. You still nod now. Yes, what do you know about the matter? You're saying...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17000	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17015	...I rely on my officials. Mrs. State Secretary! If that's the case, if you really don't know anything about anything, then you're not qualified for this office.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17054	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Finally, the rapporteur, Mr Stampler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17073	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! At the end of this debate, I would like to point out that the report of the Committee on Budgets, on page 4, fifth paragraph, and on page 5, sixth paragraph, wrongly "25 percent" is written. Rightly, it's supposed to be "35 percent." I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17097	Thank you very much, rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall vote on the request of the Committee of the Regions, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 The Rules of Procedure Act 1823 of the Supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of its report in 1823. If you want to do so, I also ask for a corresponding sign. – This too is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Applebeck and Mr Comrades on the control of donor organisations. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority, therefore rejected. 10. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1755 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Studies at Academies and on the Creation of Colleges for Pedagogical Vocations (Academies Study Law 1999 – AStG) (1794 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Teaching Committee on the draft federal law amending the Higher Education Act 1998 (1795 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1756 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act (1796 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17195	I now call on points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. The first mention is made by Mr Mag. Sweitzer. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17229	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, even in the case of your comments, which you really have nothing to say, I have never allowed myself to limit yourself to time. So leave it with me as it is! I'll use those 8 minutes to the best of my knowledge. I hope you'll always do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The educational academies are to become so-called high-school institutions by today's decision of the government parties and, if it is true, in eight years to become educational colleges, where graduates can complete with academic degrees. Ladies and gentlemen! This will continue to divide the tertiary area. In addition to the universities and the technical universities, we have for the first time also this high school institution and after eight years the university for educational professions. The term "university" alone shows that something is to be decided here, of which one does not know exactly what it is really to become. Today, the SPÖ and the ÖVP – I think – decide on a completely immature template with completely unclear structures, and any layman who has been a little concerned can see the compromise between SPÖ and ÖVP, whose outcome – Mrs. Federal Minister – I would have liked to explain something from you in your speech – I do not believe that there is a decisive improvement for training or for teaching. I would therefore be very pleased if you were able to disprove me in your speech or to make it clear to me where the improvements in education and in education are here. The comments of the EIA Members in the Committee underline that something is decided here, of which even the EIA Members do not know exactly where the journey is going. Mr Höchtl, for example, has said in the Committee that he already sees a success in the end of this decision, which is to come to an end today, a 25-year discussion. If he sees the end of a 25-year discussion by this decision as a success, this is a very poor result, Mr Brinek. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You yourself will also explain to me the statement you made and which I found very funny and amusing. You said: We are starting a transformation process with this decision. This transformation process should run for over eight years, and the whole has, as it were, an open end. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] Of course, I quote. Explain to me what you mean by open end. Do you understand that you yourself do not know what to do, what will be the result in eight years? Then say that too! To me this clearly seems to be the case. It is also very promising that Mr Antoni's statement, which has confirmed that some adaptations are necessary here, which can only be made over time, for example, a new right of service must come. And there must also be a new right of remuneration, Mr Antoni. I'm right about that. I now say and know that this claim is correct that the Federal Ministry of Education is already unable to get through with the budgeted resources. The budget is simply no longer sufficient to pay the teachers' salaries, and it is clear that the budget has been covered by many billion schillings. This has already been demonstrated to us in an answer to a question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] This is fact, Mr Niederweiser: The Minister of Education does not agree with her budget. But in your presentation – and the Minister of Education has also repeated it in the Committee – she says: By this decision, the entry into force of this law will not create any additional costs. Mrs. Federal Minister! At the best of will – I can't believe that! Is there really no cost of a new service right, Mrs. Federal Minister? If it really is, then tell me how that is possible. Is there not, in fact, any additional costs for accompanying research, which has been so highlighted? I cannot imagine that accompanying research does not cause any cost. But these are the little things. I also count the costs of the evaluation among the small things of additional costs. To sum up, these little things probably make up a lot of things, Mrs. Federal Minister. But now, Mrs Bundesminister, Mr Niederwieser, we come to the crucial question: How are the graduates who have finally completed and have also acquired an academic degree classified in origin? – That is a crucial question. Until now, primary school teachers have been classified in L 2, while high school teachers or teachers are classified at higher education institutions in L 1. I can hardly imagine that you will succeed, the graduates of this high school institution – I like this expression! – to convince that they will continue to be classified in L 2, although they have acquired an academic degree. That is to say, there will be an upgrading – this expression, Mrs. Brinek, comes from you again – of compulsory school teachers, and this upgrade will of course be associated with considerable costs. And I would like to know exactly how high these additional costs will actually be. These are unfinancing, at least with what has been made available to you so far, Mrs Bundesminister! Absolutely unfinanceable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't stand there alone with this opinion. I quote from the Court of Auditors' opinion, and I would be very interested in what you, Mrs Bundesminister, say: The Court of Auditors also appears to be obliged to point out that the Academies Study Act, as Mrs Bundesminister Elisabeth Gehrer points out in her accompanying letter, constitutes a central, indispensable step on the way to the university. The obviously intentional conclusion of this development would likely have a significant impact on teacher remuneration. - Quote. So, Mrs. Federal Minister! How many billions is this decision that you want to take with the government parties today?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17288	Mrs Dr. Brinek is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17310	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schweitzer, in particular, addressed a few points of order. Why are you afraid of further differentiation of the tertiary area? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I don't fear it, I found it!]] But you've done it that way. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I fear the costs!]] This is a development that can still be observed. In order for us to have passed a university study law and to adjust the necessary service consequences, you have no problem either. So don't represent that as a special case! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Amon.]] Second point: Transformation process. This is not a problem either, because it is a different way than the laws concerning universities that we have discussed for years. We checked them out very accurately and then presented them as finished, matured, well-structured matter, but it contained long transitional periods. In total, the result orientation is given in any case, only another way has just been taken. I therefore believe that you are interpreting a personal problem. The success will lie with us accompanying this law, and with the academies themselves, which will ensure that these new forms will exist in 2007. I have every reason to be pleased today and here that today's decision will improve the training of compulsory teachers, which will be extended to cover adult education and, at least, leisure education. I am also very pleased that the university teacher training, namely the teacher's in higher schools, is not affected – it is clearly regulated in the university study law – and I am just as pleased that the first major improvement in compulsory school teacher training with the School Law in 1962 is also being made today under the Ministry of an ÖVP politician. I am very glad that we have moved a little further in this area. What made us move? What's in the new Academies Law? – On the one hand, as I have already said, this will improve the training of compulsory teachers. Because of what fact? – A better scientific foundation and an extension of autonomy in curriculum design. So far, the academies have been essentially sheltered or school-organized institutions, which are now more and more given the opportunity to choose from. Furthermore, we ensure the establishment and intensification of research activities, which are part of a high school institution – Mr. Schweitzer, dearly, learns a piece – and motivates and stimulates the teachers there on habilitations and research activities. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, I know that too!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Grey theory!]] It's not going from today to tomorrow. Anyone who has ever been involved in educational structures and institutions knows that a school institution cannot become a high school institution from today on. In this context, it is also important to us that a consultative Commission – and this is perhaps the new way in which it is going – accompanys the ongoing development of the high school institution, which is to be completed in 2007, both legally and legally, as well as, Mr Schweitzer, under the law of law. I am confident that we will also find a solution in this regard on the social partnership path. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's all right!]] The Akademien Studiengesetz is also important because it achieves further things: a clearer statement on the possibility of more precise assessment of the recognition of study parts in the University Study Act, in order not to suffer a subjective judgment, and to be more moving internationally. The objectives are defined in § 2 SCHOG, the organization is based on the University Study Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The educational academies become universities for pedagogical professions, but not specialized universities, a presumption that has also appeared in the discussion. The state does not deny the obligation to provide solid teacher training, and it does not leave the educational academies to the temporary free professional market! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain to me only L 1/L 2!]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Academies Law is a transformation law. This is perhaps a new way because it came out of a PÄDAK working group, so if you want to, "from below". We have now taken a decisive step or will take it with the decision-making process. However, the work is not yet completed! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Financing!]] Since we do not shy the work – at least we from the coalition parties – we look forward to a good future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17462	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next word comes from Mrs Schaffenrath. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17491	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Schweitzer. The funding is open, we will experience it in 2007, and I think the chances are bad that a university will really get out of it, because there are too many arguments against it. And something else, Mr Schweitzer: This high school institution – I would rather say: high school institution – of which you do not know exactly what it is supposed to be, is clear to me, at least, a classic symptom of the typical coalition disease, namely, that you cannot decide for a long time and then find some compromise that is not fish and not meat! That's exactly the result! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And this is not surprising either, as there are great ideological tensions between SPÖ and ÖVP in the field of teacher and teacher education. Combined with a two-thirds majority in education legislation, this does not allow another compromise in the enforcement of the SPÖ on education issues – I say now. Mrs. Brinek! You were very honest, really honest, because you said you were delighted that the teacher training at the university was not affected and that the education of compulsory school teachers remains in its own system. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Is she always!]] That's what Mrs. Minister has already done on 11 November. Last November in the newspaper "Die Presse" – I quote – said: I'm going to do everything I can to get close to the unit school. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: This is a completely correct position!]] And that is, of course, the motivation behind it. I don't even criticize it. You have always clearly explained your position here. Although it is – understandably – not mine, but I say: This is an honest position. That's also what surprises me so much on this side of the house. [[The speaker pointed to the SPÖ banking series]] But I have to make a point of criticism: If the basis for a decision is to prevent something at least, and not to have a pedagogically meaningful, modern, EU-compatible, highly efficient teacher and teacher training, then this could almost be described as a policy of prevention. I'm just putting that in the room once. But now to this side of the House. [[The speaker turned to the SPÖ MP.]] Mr Antoni! In a today's APA issue, you explain that "the law for us Social Democrats is one of the most important political choices in the last decades". [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] They also say, Mr Antoni, that "the level of education" of compulsory teachers can be "uplifted to international standards" and that it is now possible to "prepar the pupils through best-trained teachers" – and teachers, as you have certainly meant – "to prepare for the increasingly tougher demands of the labour markets". [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you continue to say that it is "a forward-looking and direction-setting law", I know that social democracy has finally adopted its principles of education. Because you too have heard the motivation of this law from this side of the house. [[the speaker points towards ÖVP]] It was the SPÖ that vehemently advocated a joint teacher and teacher training. As a result of the fact that something has developed in the field of academies, the idea of the pedagogical college came. But what is offered with this proposal is really a witness of poverty for social democracy in this House, and not a step – such a "total" step, Mr. Niederwieser – that you are prone to opposition. I would like to give you this step because he is a proof of where you are today in education policy, not only on the issue of uniform teacher and teacher training. For example, I recall other forms of service feedback, the integration laws. That is what we will be discussing at another item on the agenda. I remember, above all, the other form of service feedback at basic level 1, flexible school entrance. You've taken your position from all over your fundamental positions. That really disillusions me! I do not think that this law will in any way improve training despite high-school structures. I have much more of the feeling that this law has been better prepared to have as good a chance at EU level to recognise Austrian compulsory school teacher training. We have tried to introduce changes in terms of terms, for example, the examination of diplomas. That sounds more like college, doesn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's what the HTLs say!]] What exactly can be understood is still in the stars. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's called housework even now, and there's that at the university too!]] Well, it's still not clear what's to be understood by this diploma exam. Mrs. Brinek! I have already pointed out in the Committee that this Academia study law is further enshrined in the School Organisation Act. But not just that! This would bother me even less, for our complicated and fragmented law matter could still be said that this is a mistake. But also the classic elements of the education are not cleared! If a student or a student of this high school institution does not take an examination within a certain period of time, the study is completed. This is not really high school, but rather characteristic of the school in which you only have a fixed limited time to be able to take an exam. Also among the duties of students there are classical student obligations, which could also be enshrined in other laws. The persons acting at this high-school institution remain the same as before. There is also no clarification of what can be understood by an academic teacher, an academic teacher, what training, what teaching power they have! The financial resources remain the same. The Minister also made it clear to Mr Schweitzer that the whole thing should be cost-neutral. The financial resources remain the same, so it is said in all areas in which it might open up spaces, each in an additional sentence: according to the human and financial resources. . I cannot therefore imagine how these possibilities can be used in any way. Of course, there is a lot of praise, for example, that there is now also research and evaluation. I wonder how high-quality, accompanying research can be implemented completely cost-neutrally. Although I admit that there are also some positive minor changes in it – I admit that I have already said it – such as study commissions, the possibility of a distance study, or a very positive accompanying psychological advice for students, but that certainly cannot be enough for the approval of our liberals, because it is not surprising – from this page, but from this very well – the two-track teacher training! [[Referring to the representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Referring to the representatives of the SPÖ]] And I have not yet mentioned the bureaucratic structures and costs! So we cement this at least until 2007. However, I am concerned that it will not be a university which would, as it were, be sufficient for a L 1 classification. That's what I'm gonna give you! In any case, however, we still cement the lower incomes of compulsory school teachers and compulsory school teachers, despite the much more difficult educational task. This is what we are holding fast; it is a reminder of the integration of problem children and others more. We cement the lower flexibility for these teachers because, for example, they cannot be used in other types of schools. Also, international recognition at EU level is far from guaranteed for me, because it will not be enough to give the thing a different name and set up a few high-school structures. I am still waiting in this House for a statement by the ÖVP and Mrs Minister and, more recently, by you Social Democrats, why two teachers or teachers who teach the same subject in the second class of a primary school or in the second class of an AHS are trained, paid differently and still have different teaching obligations. As long as you can't explain this to me, my call for a significantly improved but uniform teacher training will not fail. I repeat: I know that the heart of the ÖVP depends on this system. The heart of the ÖVP, although in reality there has long been no longer any such thing, depends on the classification of 10 years in AHS sub-school and primary school, in other words in drawers. And that, although that has not been true for a long time, because not 80 percent of all children in the city centre of Vienna are AHS mature, and some of the 80 percent who attend primary school in rural regions are AHS mature anyway! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] In the first district of Vienna, it is even 90 percent. But that doesn't matter! The figures speak for themselves. The vote with the feet has already taken place, Mr Amon. You know that too! At panel discussions, you also express your own opinion and not always just the party opinion. [[Abg. Amon: I always express my opinion!]] There the talks with you are certainly more progressive, compared to the discussions in this House. For the ÖVP, it may even be a small step forward to create a high-school facility. But I simply think that your Social Democrats are taking part in this process is a huge step back in social democracy on education issues. Social democracy has thus clearly lost sight of its originally highly appreciated educational policy objectives!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17628	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17649	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Now, for a second time today, this speaker’s desk has presented itself as an election stage, this time for the Liberals – should be. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: For the Greens too!]] I didn't expect here... [[Abg. Oils: Now you can!]] No, I'm going to tell you what it really was about us. I did not expect the opposition to be positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] But I still remember very well the discussion when we introduced integration. Even then it said: Under these conditions, all of this goes anyway. If we wait a few years, we'll see!, you said. Today, we can see that 47 percent of children with special educational needs are integrated. Although more than 50 percent are still in the ASO classes, at the time we also said, Mrs Colleague: This is a process, and it will develop. We're here, I think, very good on our way. It was similar with autonomy and other things. I stand by what I have formulated in the press release: This step is a particularly important step for the Socialists and Democrats and one of the most important changes in recent decades. It has not been 25 years since we first talked about it in a party program, but it has been more than 70 years since. It was the Linz party program of 1926 in which the SPÖ said: We demand a common full academic training for all teachers. I give you the right, Mrs Schaffenrath: This law does not yet bring the College of Pedagogical professions. But there is a development process that you do not want to understand. This development process ensures that, over the next eight years, Austrian compulsory school teachers will have a full academic education at university level. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Why not at the university?]] The educational academies are being developed into schools for pedagogical professions, and the level of education is raised to international standards. I'd like to see what happens if we said: Starting in autumn 1999, all educational academies will be universities. Do you even know what it would mean to introduce this from today to tomorrow? Perhaps hundreds of teachers working at the Educational Academies are supposed to habilitate over the summer? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] The thousands of students who are in schools would suddenly be in a completely different study situation. That would be negligent, Mrs Colleague! - Not at all, no! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They don't think about it!]] A few brief comments on history and development: It is known that about a year ago, an academies study law was presented, which was not necessary from our point of view. We were of the opinion that the draft did not contain the necessary educational perspectives, that it did not respect international development to the extent necessary, and it was to be feared that the present state would be cemented. There was little hope for further development. The SPÖ has then submitted its own draft law, with the help of a number of experts – it has been quoted –: "The University of Education". As a result, difficult discussions and discussions followed. Today, it can be said that despite the difficult negotiations, it has succeeded in bringing forward a forward-looking and direction-setting draft. From this point of view, I do not want to thank all of my colleagues from the classroom, but also from the scientific department for their work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me conclude, but let me address some of the essential points. Within eight years, high-school institutions for the training of compulsory teachers and other educational professions will be established. The organisational and study regulations must comply with the standards at universities and universities. The diplomas will therefore include academic degrees and will be recognized internationally. The interaction – and you apparently did not realize that at all – of teaching and research must be ensured, thus ensuring cooperation between universities and educational universities. This will also ensure that equivalent calculations of studies at universities and at academies are made possible. The representation of the students has been removed from the law for the educational academies at all and transferred to the ÖH law. This will also facilitate and improve cooperation between these two institutions. The most important instrument of this transfer law – it has already been addressed several times – is the planning and evaluation committee referred to in § 2, which will specifically plan, coordinate and evaluate further development within the planned period. A progress report will be submitted annually to Parliament by the Minister for Education. The teaching committee will also have the opportunity to accompany and discuss the further development of the educational academies and to ensure that the necessary steps are taken. At the same time, there will be studies and studies to support this process of further development. I am very sure that in 2007 we will have higher education institutions. Again: We have eight years for this comprehensive and large reform project. This is not too long for this project. Because – and now I can come back to colleagues Schweitzer – we have also taken over it to address structural adjustment in the post-secondary field in the course of the further development of the educational academies to universities. Hundreds of teachers and thousands of students will change a lot. There must be sensitivity and a sense of responsibility in order for all to be taken away. Anyone who knows in the university field knows that the necessary habilitations, further and higher qualifications are not possible in two or three summer months, but that this will take several years. The development of a new right of service and remuneration is also part of this law. This will also take time, a lot of time. I believe that the eight years in the law are well-elected eight years. We're going to need them very urgently. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not so much about the international recognition and full academic degrees being played in the foreground. Our every concern must be to have the best qualified teachers for our students in this state! – It is important to work on this!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17743	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17764	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can learn a lot over and over again. For example, I am now more rich in the experience that this is a transformation law. In the Committee, the law was still a law – and Mr Antoni is still of this opinion – which will introduce a evolution. That is what the Federal Minister said, and this has also been said by Mr Antoni with a different word, namely, "development". There is a difference between evolution and transformation. The transformation still involves the idea that a development might have taken place before. That was your opinion. Now, however, evolution begins, the law will introduce a evolution – that is actually the best thing about the facts. That means nothing else – and this has been emphasized by the Federal Minister and Mr Antoni – than that until now. That's more true, it was a standstill! This movement, which is now under way, where we do not yet know where the whole thing is going, in what direction, with what perspective... Mrs. Brinek! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes, we know exactly!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The result of a transformation is not to predict!]] This development or transformation – whatever you want to call it – is not because it is because it is as you have said, that this is a reform "from below" – you have tried to present it in the committee – but it is because the diploma recognition directive imposes certain requirements on us so that trained teachers can experience international recognition. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Cyberspace!]] We still do not know – and I think it is still not quite "eating" – whether this recognition will actually take place to the extent that we would like them to be trained at high school institutions in the future. Because one thing is clear, I admit: The educational academies do very good in the educational field. I am therefore in favour of extending the question raised by Mrs Schaffenrath. She said she wanted to know why a high school teacher who has the same curriculum as a gymnasium is trained differently and paid differently. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There is another educational goal!]] There is no other target in the sub-level. He is trained differently and paid differently. I would like to know – and thus expand the question – why a teacher or a teacher at a educational academy or high school institution is primarily trained in education, whereas a teacher or a teacher at a university is hardly trained educationally. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes! Read the university law!]] Hardly! I did not say "not", but "nothing"; with emphasis on scientific training. I want to know what it will be like after these eight years. In my opinion, Mr Niederweiser rightly said that there was an objection that had also been raised by the opposition parties in the Committee: Well, it may be that certain insistence trends are becoming effective, so that we cannot yet say whether within these eight years the structures that are somehow transforming are re-enforced or whether the journey is going elsewhere. I really want to know where to go, not only for students, but also for teachers at these academies. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For those involved!]] What training do they have? What teaching qualifications do they receive at the Educational Academies, Mrs. Federal Minister? Can they also habilitate at these academies or high-school institutions? Or where does the habilitation of these teachers take place? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: At the University!]] Obviously still at universities! I am at a final point. What you're keeping here is the external differentiation of the secondary education area, which is reflected in the price of much higher costs. The fact that the primary educational training remains separate from the primary scientific training, that synergies which would be possible by joint training at a common university are still not used and that they do not save costs is determined! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That must not be so at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This extends to the point that the Federal Ministry of Education and Art is still responsible for the high school students at the educational academies or high-school institutions, whereas the Ministry of Science is still responsible for the students at the universities. What you're writing here is the proportion at the level of training of future teachers. This is a pity, and unfortunately this is not an improvement, but a consolidation of what we have known for decades in Austria, namely the proportion of education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Here he is cast into a structure, where on one side the SPÖ says: We really wanted to, but we couldn't get through! and, of course, the EIA has to show something. Here it is still set in a common structure that is hardly fixed – only at the level of students. I'll hold on to this. This development is unfortunate! Unfortunately, it is not a step forward in the direction we would have imagined, which we would have wished for, and which concerns not only the remuneration of the trainees, but also the training content itself. This is a really missed opportunity! If you continue with the reforms in the pace you have taken over the last 50 years, we are still not so far in 50 years that we will actually be making a decisive step forward in this area of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17912	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17933	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The new Akademieen Studiengesetz, which is available today for decision-making, is a first step towards the College of Pedagogy and can also be seen as such. From 2007 onwards compulsory teachers will be trained at these universities. These universities are also intended to provide training for teachers in adult education and other educational areas. The aim is to ensure that graduates are also facilitated within the European Union, as diplomas are internationally recognized. Mrs Schaffenrath said on the one hand that she did not know whether these diplomas would be recognized, on the other hand, she said that the law would only be made so that these diplomas would be recognised in the European Union. That was a contradiction in itself. In addition, more autonomy is transferred to the academies. This expansion of independence enables academies to have more influence on the design of studies, and that is certainly very important. The study plans must be decided by the study commission at the respective academy, with the pedagogical content being designed in principle autonomously. Mrs. Gehrer has achieved a reform that could be exemplary for many other areas. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For which? Call me an area! For which?]] – I only have 4 minutes of speaking time. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For which? Call an area!]] Furthermore, the academies receive their own student representatives, who are attached to the Austrian University School. That too is progress. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] At this point I would like to make an appeal to all students: Take part in the ÖH elections! Make use of your democratic voting right, and do not leave the non-electors the majority! The studies at the academies serve, on the one hand, a more scientific and practical vocational training, which I also consider very important. This government template also ensures that the academies' research activities are strengthened. Intensive cooperation between the academies should facilitate these research opportunities. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who pays this?]] Research, practice and proximity to practice are inseparably linked. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What's that cost?]] - You'll see. The graduates of these academies take on an important role in society. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where is the money to come from?]] In their future profession, they are not only supposed to impart knowledge, they also make an important contribution to the more value-raising of students. Mr Schweitzer! In addition to the parents' home, teachers have a great role model for young people. Young people today reject official authorities, but they very well recognize personalities who appreciate them. Teacher training must therefore be given a very special priority. High house! This reform package is a progress towards a reasonable education policy for which the Austrian People's Party and thus the Minister of Foreign Affairs are responsible – it decides on the opportunities of young people on the labour market of the future. We are concerned with strengthening school autonomy, the sustainable commitment to the differentiated school system and also the sustainable commitment to priority policy. These intentions are taken into account by this law. I am therefore seeking your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18028	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18050	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Leikam is right: This is a forward-looking law, for the reason that something will only happen in 2007 anyway, and that is now in the future. Otherwise, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a big throw. On the contrary: In my opinion, it is a terriblely bad law because it raises more questions and creates more problems than it can solve. Although it is not possible to talk about Husch-Pfusch because it was discussed for a very long time, it has unfortunately not come out very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This law is at best the draft for a program you want to implement by 2007 or 2008! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You decide today that you will adopt a real law in 2007. And that is not enough from a liberal point of view. The terms are unclear. What, for example, is a "university"? I come to this term again. It's supposed to be "high school." Only recently have we – you all remember – made universities in the science field, last but not least the universities of art, into universities. That means that we will probably sometime turn the "university institutions" into "pedagogical universities". This development will lead you to do so. You will also write about the level of higher education in educational and social fields. – Is this a premise of the social academies or social universities that you may be setting up later? And what about the teachers at these high school institutions? Are these then college teachers? – Are these academic teachers then professors at "university institutions"? No one's gonna know each other so well! The A-valuability and the remuneration questions have already been discussed here. There is a lot of open questions in detail: For how many semesters is it possible, for example, to liberate students? Or the topic of nostrification: We have last decided that nostrification in higher education or in the university sector is doing the ministry. In this case, the Director of a high school institution shall be responsible for this. The composition of the study committee is also completely open. The human and financial resources to be considered have already been discussed. It seems to me to be a little familiar, from the field of national defence. It's the same thing that you're doing: First, you look at what you have, and then you adjust the image of the threat and the situation to the resources available. That's all too familiar to us! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] The definition of student duties has already been discussed by Mrs Schaffenrath. We will talk later about the report of the University Council. Professor Schelling, President of the University of Applied Sciences Council – not a typical freedom-making man, but an ÖVP man – calls for clear structures in the field of education; he calls for a continuous education system. But we do not achieve that, but we remove ourselves from it. What is to be achieved? "Cui bono?" That is the question. – This law can only be used to cut a point in the coalition agreement. It may also serve to achieve a dubious increase in the academic rate. In any case, however, it serves to regulate the competences between red and black for the next legislative periods: Professional universities in the red area, academies in the black area. – At some point something will also come into the blue area, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We demand, and we have already called for it in the Committee, the establishment of a subcommittee, a survey to clarify the open questions and the discussion on the broadest basis of what the teacher training of the future should look like. That is what we owe to the children, the teachers, the institution school and finally our homeland, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our colleague, Mr Graf, will continue to take care of the representation of students on account of the fact that you are still in the same position as you are washing up. They are assigned to the heads of the student representatives of a forced chamber – can almost be said – which the students at the high school institutions – don't want at all at the real colleges. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18123	Mrs Fuchs is speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18144	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Up to now, two-track teacher training – on the one hand the training of compulsory teachers at the PÄDAK, on the other hand, the training of AHS teachers at the university – no longer meets the current requirements. Today – as I mean – people agreed on this. Therefore, an equivalent training of all teachers at higher education level is a necessity. The advantages are clearly obvious: First of all, there is the full academic training of all teachers, second, they have access to a doctoral degree; this possibility is thus also given; and third and especially important... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: The A-Value!]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Is that then A-value?]] Of course! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Also from payment?]] That will have to be the result, certainly. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who is funding this?]] I hope you won't worry about it! That will not be the biggest problem! I don't think that's the question! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it comes to training, the question of the possibility of financing for us Social Democrats cannot be an argument! For us, this cannot be an argument against a better education for our students, for our children, for the next generation! I would like to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Edlinger and his "Essel, stretch yourself!" I'll pay for it!]] We must admit that there is still a lot to be done in Austria in order to bring it into line with European conditions. This is a fact, and it is therefore more than necessary for us to look beyond our own borders in all the educational parliamentary discussions in the future. In fact, there are developments that must also be taken into account in our discussions, which can also be financed, and I therefore believe that this will also be possible with us. I can address one of these examples here, namely a higher education course for the training of kindergartens and primary school teachers at the Free University of Bolzano in South Tyrol. In this example, we are presented with the fact that training areas located outside of the university are very likely to be integrable at university level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The duration of the study is four years, with general contents of the two courses of study being communicated in the first part of the study and specialization taking place in the respective profession. Ladies and gentlemen! I could give you a few examples. In view of my short speaking time, however, I would just like to make it quite clear to us once again what social democrats are about: We are concerned with the people in this country, their opportunities and the development of their potential. Therefore, the level of development set out in the objectives is of great importance. Only with the establishment of a university for pedagogical professions will we – hopefully soon – also reach the international standards, and we will... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where are we now? Are we now below the international level?]] Yes, sir! Unfortunately, we are there! But we will be able to offer the best training to future teachers and to the infant educators too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18264	Mr Grollitsch came to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18286	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The self-proclaimed educational expert Dr. Niederwieser told us in the committee that this Akademie study law is a great proof of how functional the coalition is at the end of the legislative period. He wanted to wipe out the scepticism on our part by saying that we are actually only jealous that this work has now been completed. The term "self-named educational expert" is not a disrespect to my person for the very cooperative colleague. Instead, I can quote a press release by Professor Wingert, Vice-President of the National School Council for Upper Austria, who writes: "Ununderstanding, displeasure and indignation about the Academies Study Law of ÖVP. ... The Federal Minister Gehrer claims that the draft law was drawn up by a working group of experts from the ÖVP and SPÖ. As an expert on matter, I may hold that at most ‘self-proclaimed’ experts of SPÖ may not have been ‘respected’.” [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Who's that from?]] I quote your party colleagues, Professor Wingert from Upper Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: When was that, and what design did that refer to?]] I make this press release available to you, of course, so that you can determine their authenticity! Mrs. Federal Minister! You can be assured that you have averted the College of Education. This is the declared goal of the Socialists. You have assumed that the alternative to what is available here today is a statement of intent over the next eight years, in which there are quite some aspects which give the PÄDAKs an opportunity, which you have agreed with in the Committee's own words, to all the reformability. In the Committee you have, for example, meant that the PÄDAKs are at the end of their development. I could quote Mr Scrinzi from FPÖ in 1969 to the emergence of the PÄDAKs, who had already predicted the limit and the finality of these PÄDAKs. Mrs. Federal Minister! The main problem I see is that teachers are disabled today and within the next eight years by the expiry of the Educational Institutes in their continuing and continuing training. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This could make a contribution to teacher education and further education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18385	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Dr. Grollitsch has just read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dr. Stippel with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18409	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On this motion for a resolution, which I received ten seconds ago, I would just like to make one comment: It would be inappropriate to disband the educational institutions. Of course, the PIs have to be further developed as we do in teacher training. Almost all speakers have already commented on the eight-year phase of development. I would like to say once again: There are two ways to get to a law. One can decide a law after a short or long discussion and then observe how this law proved to be true in reality. In this case, we are constantly experiencing the fact that the law in question must be changed after a relatively short period of time. Or you go the way we're trying to go now: We lay down a period of time – saying: eight years – and with a very concrete objective of a common teacher training in future universities for pedagogical professions. I believe that this path is quite legitimate. I also think that this is a path which is at least not bad, because this House, Mr Oellinger, the National Council, is involved in the development. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] The Committee on Planning and Evaluation also has the task of setting up a progress report to the House each year, which allows the House to intervene in a corrective manner over and over again. I personally welcome this procedure. And if Mr Schaffenrath, in her speech, meant that social democracy had adopted its principles of education, then she looked forward to that. Mr Antoni has already pointed out the relevant passages in the Linz party program of 1926. They themselves know how difficult the educational issues are. Because of the need for a two-thirds majority, the steps in this House sometimes cannot be taken as quickly as we would have wished from Social Democracy. But I see a very beautiful, clear step forward in this law to be adopted today. I would like to say to Mr Schweitzer – Mr Fuchs has already suggested this – that: Education policies that serve progress cannot be a cost issue. If higher costs are to be incurred in 2007, these costs will be borne. It must be inside for the future of our children and our society!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18451	Mr Martin Graf spoke with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18473	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to deal with the proposal to amend the High School Law and to submit a referral request in this regard: Request Deputies Dr. Graf, Mag. Schweitzer, Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and colleagues on referral pursuant to § 71 GOG-NR "The National Council, pursuant to § 71 GOG-NR, wants to decide to refer the draft federal law amending the Higher Education Act 1998, as amended by the Committee's report (1795 of the Supplements) to the Teaching Committee for further consideration." The story of this request is a bit strange. There was a resolution by the liberals on this issue in November 1998 that a representation of interest should be laid down by law at the vocational colleges. This request was rejected by the government parties. However, our proposal at the time provided for non-integration into the Austrian high school. At the same time, Members of Parliament, Mr Lukesch and Mr Niederwieser, shortly thereafter submitted a motion for a resolution in the context of the decision-making of the University Study Act asking the Federal Minister for Science and Transport to draw up a bill of law in order to install a representation of interest at the technical colleges. On 27 July the Coalitions took the initiative of the Coalitions. On April 27, an §-27 application was brought in, without reference to the bodies, without consideration of the bodies and without prior notice to the opposition parties. This application has been referred to the Education Committee and is now regulated by the representatives of the technical colleges within the framework of the Austrian University of Applied Sciences. It must be said that there is already a voluntary representation of interests at the vocational colleges with well over a thousand members, with this number increasing steadily. This representation of interest came with a press release of 2. On the other hand, May states that it is "degraded" to the ÖH – I think that is really the right expression. In the same way, at its plenary session, the University of Applied Sciences Council held on 14 and 15. In May, it was decided not to take action against the will of the actual representation of interests in the form of the association of higher education students in order to achieve an incompetent transition of the student's representation of interests within the framework of the university. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it would be necessary and important – and it is still time for it – to refer back to this matter of law, that we talk about what students really want, and also about the current ÖH elections, to which even the current chairman of the APA press release of today states that the electoral participation is in the East and, today, at some universities, is only 2.8 percent. I think it would be necessary to rethink the whole thing, unless we do not want to install a proper representation of interests at the colleges of a specialist.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18527	The referral request submitted by Dr Graf, Member of the Commission, is sufficiently supported and is to be dealt with. There is now a speech by Dr Niederwieser. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. 4 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18551	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There has been a great deal here about this law and the development of this law, who has fallen by it and who has enforced himself. – Things are relatively simple, and the questions were probably only rhetorical. There was a draft of the Ministry of Education for a novel to the Academies Study Act. Mr Grollisch! I appreciate that you may have been given incomplete documents. The criticism of Vice-President Wingert referred exclusively to this draft of the Ministry of Education and not to what is available here. You can have that black on white. Therefore, do not quote an old statement that has affected something completely different! Please, look at this! I'm sure you'll correct that! The SPÖ, on the other hand, has developed a federal law for higher education institutions, and we have now had the task of trying to unite it in the coalition. We have taken back at the pace, Mrs Schaffenrath, but not in the objective, and we are pleased that this has become a common goal. I am not surprised that the liberals are still under arrest in old thinking structures. I wonder, however, that the Liberal Forum and the Greens are unable to do so. Two steps have been taken to reform: On the one hand, the academies are equipped with completely new structures, in such a way that they also gain proper international recognition for graduates. You need no doubt about that at all! This is the connection between research and teaching. There are independent study plans and, of course, involvement in high school also belongs to them. These are new collegial bodies and extended autonomy for the academies. A second step is to transform into schools for pedagogical professions with a accompanying expert commission. In this Commission, the best women and men will be called out of practice and from science. We are getting regular reports, and there are also studies in which these steps can, of course, be preceded. And there are not only the provisions in the law, but there is also a very concrete interest of educational academies in carrying out these studies. I would like to admit something to you from the opposition parties if you say that these are not universities: The difficulties of the plain are undoubtedly still ahead of us. There will be difficulties in actually implementing all of this as we imagine it to be. But it will be a very appealing task for all of us to prove to you that this will succeed in an excellent way in the interest of our children!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18595	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18616	Mr President. High house! Teacher education in Austria is a good education. I would therefore like to make three clarifications on this discussion on the Academies' Law. First: We can be proud of our educational academies, the training of compulsory teachers and compulsory teachers. It's a very good training. It is recognised in Europe, and many new accents have been set in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second clarification: This Academies Law gives the Educational Academies more autonomy, more independence and more opportunities to respond quickly to challenges. I would also like to point out quite clearly that this extended autonomy in the Academia study law does not cause any cost. We discussed this carefully and discussed it through. Now a third clarification: This Academies Law is a law that sets out a clear goal to be achieved in eight years. We don't want to make a single survey once, and we love to talk about what we might want to do, but we're very clear and clear: Teacher training is so important that the educational academies should develop into schools for educational professions, and we want to do so together with a fixed Commission. So we do management with planning and not management by chaos. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Academies Law will continue the consistent path in the field of education that this government has taken, in order to enable more independence for our educational institutions and further developments. This provides the basis for future-oriented training for our young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18668	There is no more word message for this. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will take place separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1794 of the supplements. To this end, Members Dr. Brinek, Dr. Antoni and Comrades have tabled an amendment. The Akademien Studiengesetz is within the meaning of Article 14(1). 10 Federal Constitutional Law on a matter for which a qualified quota is required, at least the presence of half of the members and a two-thirds agreement. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. There is only one amendment, and I therefore leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Dr. Brinek, Dr. Antoni and Comrades concerning § 12 para. 2 and § 25 para. 1 vote. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the existence of the constitutionally prescribed two-thirds quorum. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their agreement to this draft, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft is also adopted at third reading on the basis of the two-thirds constitutional requirement. On the draft law concerning the amendment of the High School Law 1998 in 1795, Member Dr. Graf submitted a referral request. We therefore vote on this referral request. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law being referred back to the Committee on Education in 1795 to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The referral request is rejected. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1795 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for signs of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by the majority at second reading. I ask for the vote of the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1796 of the supplements. The draft concerns a federal law that amends the school organisation law. It may also, within the meaning of Article 14(4). 10 Federal Constitutional Act will be passed only in the case of the quota of half of the members of the National Council and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft shall be adopted by a majority on the basis of the two-thirds quorum required. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give a sign. – The draft is adopted by a majority of the third reading, once again in the case of the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schweitzer and comrades concerning the dissolution of the Educational Institutes. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. 13. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 1058/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Josef Höchtl, Dr. Dieter Antoni and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Landeslehrer Service Law 1984 (1797 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Committee of Education on the Government template (1752 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Education Act (1798 of Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1753 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the School Education Act for the Professionals (1799 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1754 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Remuneration of Examination Activities in the field of Schooling with the exception of Higher Education and on the compensation of members of Advisory Commissions pursuant to § 15 of the School Education Act (1800 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Education on the petition (PET-41) on the future of the Waldorf schools in Austria, presented by the honourable Member Mag. Dr. Josef Höchtl (1801 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motion for a resolution 689/A (E) by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and others on the integration of school tests into the general school system (1802) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motion for a resolution 438/A (E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and Comrades concerning the introduction of an ethics teaching as an election subject (1803 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motion for a resolution 600/A (E) by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and others on the successive replacement of the numbering system by educationally meaningful system of performance feedback (1804 of the Supplements) 21. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 620/A by Maria Schaffenrath and Comrades on a Federal Law establishing the School Education Act (BGBl. No. 472/1986) as amended by the present version (1805 of the Supplements) 22. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 621/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act laying down the compulsory schooling law 1985 (BGBl. No. 76/1985) as amended by the present version (1806 of the Supplements) 23. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 622/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on a federal law with which the School Organisation Act (BGBl. No. 242/1962) as amended by the current version (1807 of the Supplements) 24. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 712/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the School Time Act 1985 (1808 of the Supplements) 25. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 732/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act laying down the compulsory schooling law 1985 (BGBl. No. 76/1985) as amended by the present version (1809 of the Supplements) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Education on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18969	We now come to points 13 to 26 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There was no oral reporting. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18996	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If you see the fullness of the agenda items currently selected in the field of education, you could gain the impression that in the evening you have become industrious that some sort of end-track will move the resort. In addition to the application euphoria of the teacher Schaffenrath, however, there remains only a new school teaching law and accompanying measures, which reorganises the implementation of adult, diploma or final examinations. Mrs. Federal Minister! The transfer of project work as a diploma and finalisation is indeed a welcome reform. But as so often the devil lies in detail here too. For example, a sufficient oral review of the knowledge of the content of project work does not allow drivers to be discovered in the event of group work. Or: The draft provides that according to § 36a "Admission to Examination" the examination candidate is also entitled to take the main examination, which did not successfully complete the last curriculum level and was assessed at this school level in a compulsory subject matter or with "not enough". The limitations on this passage also suggest formal invitation to act. For this and other reasons, we cannot, in the end, agree with the liberals of this proposal, even though, as has been said, we very much welcome the introduction of project work and are in favour of the subject. Let me make a few comments on the other materials. On presentation 1754 concerning the remuneration of examination activities et cetera: Mrs Bundesminister, we – and not just us – are skeptical and doubted that the pre-liminated 2.1 million schilling of additional costs can be found. Furthermore, in this context, the question arises as to how personnel costs will develop in your department in the next few years, for example in the next two years. Mr Schweitzer has already referred to this. They are referred to in a tomorrow newspaper – I congratulate you for my birthday – as "the pet-born". I connect with "stier" but also other associations, because You have already significantly exceeded your announcements regarding additional costs or non-additional costs last year. The same is to be expected for this year, and your future projects are not exactly cheap. Just a short while to the item on the agenda 17. We very much appreciate Mr Höchtl's efforts in relation to the Waldorf schools, but believe that it is necessary to avoid inequality with other private schools and therefore a novel to the private school law, as announced in the Committee, is necessary. As far as the Liberals' requests, which are the subject of Agenda items 18 to 25, are concerned, we cannot go along with them for various reasons. The fact that the applicants were not particularly serious with their proposals may be seen as a result of the withdrawal of a request for gift support from the Committee, because we signaled freedom of movement. Become such an inaccurate and tendent exclusion They also do not giant in education policy, my "Lordships" of the Liberals! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19045	Mr Dr Höchtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19067	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of the 14 agenda items to be discussed in this joint debate on education, I would just like to focus on three points: firstly, on the value of what we have dealt with in the Committee on the Future of Waldorf Schools. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I made a petition here in the National Council about a year ago after some discussions and discussions with representatives of the Waldorf Schools to secure the future of the Waldorf Schools in Austria. The Waldorf schools in Austria, in my view and in the eyes of the Austrian People's Party, are an integral part of the local education system, which includes some 2,600 pupils and about 1,000 kindergarten children. We believe that it is valuable work being done there, and that is why we have from the outset expressed our support for the need to do everything we can to ensure the future of these schools. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Over the past few years, we have also tried, under the aegis of the Federal Minister Gehrer, to set numerous material accents. I have chosen the figures in question. While we had around 1.45 million schilling in 1990, in 1995 there were already 8 million schilling. However, this amount was systematically increased under the aegis of Federal Minister Gehrer, namely in 1996 to 14.5 million schilling, in 1998 to 18 million schilling and in this year to 19 million schilling. And if we add the various posts, which are still paid, then we come to about 23 million schilling. I think that only this short list of a few data shows that in recent years there has been a conscious attempt to live up to the value and importance of the Waldorf schools. I think it is undoubtedly worth thanking the Federal Minister for the fact that this effort could also be converted into concrete figures in such a way as to form a tangible coin. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and by Dr. Mertel and Dr. Niederwieser.]] But the future is not yet secure. In this context, it must also be mentioned that the parents of these Waldorf students have enormous benefits. On average, amounts of over 2 500 s are paid to school fees alone. There are considerable benefits that are provided here. We have therefore discussed in the Committee on Education whether the future of these schools can no longer be secured through a contract in the longer term. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the representatives of the Waldorf Schools, is very much negotiating a concrete wording of this Treaty. We could not decide in the Committee on Education the outcome of this Treaty or a Committee statement in general, because there was no assurance in the financial field, but not by the Federal Minister, but by the Minister for Finance. However, we would like to stress that it is a matter of concern for us that this Treaty should actually be concluded in the foreseeable future, because the future of the Waldorf schools should not be abandoned, but secured! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me make two more comments on two other points. First, colleague Dr. Schmidt, in turn, has submitted an application for the abolition of compulsory religion and the introduction of free religion and, as an alternative, an ethical teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This request did not find the majority in the Committee on Education. I would like to stress: We of the ÖVP clearly acknowledge the value of compulsory religion! Over the past decades, millions of students have gone through meaningful religious teaching, and they have received a valuable value orientation through it. As long as we have the opportunity to make a decisive educational policy here, religion will be maintained for so long! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (turning to his non-appealing colleagues) Niederwieser! What is it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: He didn't say it to us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you can say the same!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I've been maturizing in religion!]] This brings me to the third issue, the numbering system. That is also something the Liberals would like to abolish. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect too, the Liberal Forum probably has some very small group of people in mind. I can only say: We of the ÖVP prefer it with the vast majority of students, parents and teachers. We recognize the numbering note system as the most useful system in the performance assessment. A recent survey conducted in Upper Austria on pupils alone showed that between 80 and 90 percent of students want to maintain the numbering note system. These students clearly have the support of the Austrian People's Party. So we are also saying a clear no to abolish the numbering system!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19171	Mrs Schaffenrath has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19201	Oh, Mr. Luke, how am I going to miss you? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She already understands something about that!]] Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I actually wanted to focus on other points because of the abundance of the agenda items, but now I feel challenged by Mr Grollitsch and, of course, by you, Mr Höchtl. Mr Grollitsch, who believes that there would be no educational competence on the part of the Liberals, would you please look at the previous arrangements for the test of maturity. For if he believes it would be a innovation to be allowed to enter a mature test with a "not enough" then he will be wrong. This has already been the case if this item was also Matura's object or could be assessed in an extraordinary examination in the context of the maturity test. However, in one point I give him right, and then I can... – Well, it's true: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My son Julian is acting in this way...!]] It wasn't new. I do not think that this law is being rejected for that reason. I would have to criticize other points and I will come back to them. However, I give him the right thing on the question of the Waldorf schools. I am a supporter of the Waldorf School as one of several pedagogical possibilities. It was the liberals who have repeatedly discussed the private school law in this House – twice since I was here – because I am concerned about a financial security of private schools, which means an enrichment of the Austrian school system. Since private schools, as we know, can only be supported according to the means – apart from conventional schools; so it is in the private school law – I am concerned that these are regular and, as I believe, justified allocations to the Waldorf schools are also limiting the possibilities for other private schools. I have this concern, and I would very much like to discuss this here in the context of a request for private school law. Mr Khol! I must always laugh when I see this number series, the increase in funding amounts. All here in the house know that the Waldorf School may not only owe you its privileged situation in relation to other private schools. All your children attend a Waldorf school. You yourself have visited one and have personally been able to convince yourself that private schools also have a high-quality education offer, and this high-quality education offer is also carried by your wife, as I know, or at least supported. Now there is another comment in the direction of Mr Grollitsch, who has unfortunately come to my attention. [[Contradict with Members of the Liberals.]] Where is he? - Oh, up there! Mr Grollisch! If you in this House claim that we Liberals have withdrawn the request for the promotion of gifted people, or better - we have specified - from gifts, because the liberals had agreed to, then you say, as I believe, consciously the untruth. In the course of the discussion in the Committee on Education, the Minister said that a large part of the demands of this request have already been met. It has assured me that this information will be sent to me, and I have said that if this information is not sufficient and my wishes are not satisfied in this context, then I will bring the request back immediately. The fact that you have said that the Liberals would have made a request from the liberals in the field of education, I am simply putting this to the general public for discussion. Everyone may judge what to think of it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Höchtl! On the topic of religion as a subject of constituency. I remember: It was also your clubman, who has already expressed himself very positively here! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Unfortunately, I can't walk up to my office now and get the OTS broadcasts from you, Mr. Klubobmann, but you know that anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Not as a matter of election!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But not as an election subject!]] As an alternative! Where's the big difference? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: As a matter of duty! I have to correct that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's something else!]] The Minister of Education, who was pleased to report on 27 or 26 school attempts in this area, asked the Commission to wait for the evaluation before taking further steps. I take note of that. In addition, as I believe, this request has been in committee for two years without being dealt with. We have already debated in detail a deadline which has been rejected. But I would like to confess, Mr Klubobmann, that we have already developed in the meantime and now we really want to have a mandatory ethics lesson for all students. Unfortunately, I do not have so much time to respond to our new request, which will be tabled immediately. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: "Leider"? - Thank God!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Take your time!]] One more point, Mr Höchtl: Surveys in which 70 to 80 percent of students – that was the number you mentioned –... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: 80 to 90 – if you had listened!]] I have written it, Mr Höchtl! Maybe you promised. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: No! But that doesn't matter! That's not a problem!]] - It doesn't matter. It was a survey in Upper Austria that you quoted, according to which 80 percent of students – some of us on average – thought that the number notes would be a sensible system of assessment. If you quote this survey, please bear in mind, Mr Höchtl, that only those students who have already learned to live with this completely unobjective, anti-performance system and who know nothing else have been questioned. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I can't ask the three- to five-year-olds!]] The three- to five-year-olds, Mr Höchtl, will not have asked you, I assume, but of course you have asked only those who already know this numbering system. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I said: I can't ask them!]] However, one thing is quite clear – and in this science agrees in this field: If the numbering note should now be introduced, then it would not have a chance, so it is negatively assessed by all experts. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: This is a purely theoretical possibility that does not exist at all!]] Regional School Council President Riedl also successfully tests alternative forms of performance feedback such as the direct performance template. Also Montessori and Waldorf schools – highly appreciated by you – do not have a digit note, but have alternative forms of performance assessment. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We're talking about regular schooling!]] But if all this is so bad, perhaps we should consider the long-term financial security of the Waldorf School again, Mr Höchtl, because the Waldorf School does not know the numbering note. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We're talking about regular schooling!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We talked about regular schooling!]] Where's the big difference? [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: There is a big difference between regular schools and Waldorf school!]] It seems to be working for the so important – yes, indispensable – Waldorf School! On the government templates. Mrs. Minister! We agree with your proposal for the reform of the mature test. "Reform" is perhaps not exactly the right word, but I think it is important that examination procedures be simplified, that Commissions be reduced and - of course - that is an essential necessity! – that project work is anchored within the framework of these final audits, as they are now called. However, I have a few small problems, and also because of your contributions to the Committee on Education. If I see, on the one hand, that the time between written and oral examination has to be at least three weeks, and on the other hand, that you prescribe at least six months in externalist examinations, and that is why we also need opportunities in order not to make it too easy for these externalists, I am not doing so. That it is only at a time when we focus on training and life-long learning, that we are looking for opportunities to put stones in the way of those who claim something other than the public system, for that, Mrs Minister, I really have little understanding! Another point: I hope you will return to the position you had in relation to the possibility of ascending with a "not enough" without a class conference. It is precisely within the framework of this government template that it has become so clear how difficult the argumentation of staying seated is. They say, for example, that someone who has a "not enough" and has to repeat the class no longer needs to visit those items that he has received in his first visit to the class. What does this look like in the fourth class of trade academy? There are also educational subjects that have been evaluated in the final analysis. Do the students concerned no longer need to attend the teaching of these objects without involving the aspect of the mature exam? How useful is a repetition of classes because of just one "not enough" bad? That is why I am not doing so because my speaking time is running out of my mind. One point, or maybe two, but I would like to address it. Mrs. Minister! On the question of audit fees, you will not get our consent, also from principle considerations. As long as there is no very clear job description for teachers, we do not agree with allowances or fees of any kind. We simply do not want to expand this supplemental jungle, I say now. With the same reason, of course, we also reject this quick shot by colleagues Höchtl and Antoni – I think you both were – the Landeslehrer Service Law. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We didn't shoot quickly!]] This is a reason for rejection, but there has already been an additional trick, once again at the expense of disabled children, of children with special educational needs and their teachers. Mr Oellinger will make another request. I don't know if it was a mistake – I don't want to put anyone under it. I mean, in any case, we should give the support hours to those who are actually confronted with it – on the one hand, teachers and on the other, the children – and not necessarily move them to the directorate level. But that integration is not really a deep concern of this coalition, you have once again proved in connection with the Liberals' requests to improve the conditions of integration. On a request, I would like to make one more specific point. Mrs. Minister! We wanted to ensure, with our request for the compulsory schooling law, that all those children who have so far been considered unfit for schooling and have therefore been excluded from the general schooling requirement have at least a right to education. Mrs. Minister! Even if you said that these would only be more than 300 children and these would be removed in social institutions, I would like to point out to you: This is really a human rights issue, and the right to education is also firmly enshrined in the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of Children. All children, regardless of their individual needs, have a right to education. If they are not integrable in the school sector, if the school is not an offer for them, then we must find out-of-school funding for them. This is your responsibility, Mrs. Minister. We cannot leave the responsibility solely to the parents. 300 children are not much, but there are just about 300 children too much. The last point is also interesting. He's dealing with the school-spraying law. Mrs. Minister! I was more than surprised at the discussion in this regard in the Committee, because if we take autonomy seriously if we grant schools small spaces – small, I say – so that they can develop a school profile, if we believe that this will also create competition and increase performance, then we cannot leave everything as much as it is at present: that children are distributed as evenly territorially to schools of the respective community; that children, regardless of their needs and interests, are simply assigned to organisational considerations and that this proper allocation goes before the right to free choice of school! If, moreover, a colleague of the ÖVP – I don't know exactly who that was anymore – thinks that a school of a community could break up, then I'll tell you: If all children would choose another school – and that doesn't make the parents and the children of Jux and Tollery – then it's probably not particularly bad about this school that dissolves, either. I think that one should not only promote autonomy and allow a little bit of it, but should not fear it when it comes to allowing a competition in the interests of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19493	Mr. Dr. Khol asked for an actual correction. – Please start the correction with the presentation of the facts you want to compare with your version.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19518	Mr President. High house! I'm correcting my previous speaker. She said that I would have joined the Liberal Forum's proposal that religion should become an electoral subject. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: An optional subject!]] The right thing is that I work vehemently for the duty of "confessional religious education" and that I support a basic teaching for children without confession as well as for those who subscribe to the compulsory "confessional religious education" as replacement classes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19556	Mr Rada. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19578	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, I do not have enough time to speak, otherwise I would very much like to go into a discourse with Mr Höchtl on the value of the point-note assessment and on the alternative forms of the point-note assessment. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Please! Very much! You're at your disposal!]] At least in Lower Austria, we have exactly the opposite of those students who are in the field of school entry and primary school: They can't start with zero notes at this age unless they have older siblings. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Don't underestimate the children! That's terrifying!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Better than in any other form!]] But, as I said, unfortunately, God's speaking time is missing. This also applies to the field of ethics. However, I could very well befriend the fact that for those students who have signed out of religious education, another form of value teaching could be introduced. I would like to focus a little more intensively on the revision of the State Teacher Service Law. Because this has been a little disqualified from previous speakers, I would like to note a lot of positive and good innovations. From my point of view, it is first of all the flexible head office, away from the rigid age structure, after which the most elderly teacher of the headmasters is automatically. This has always been a problem in practice. Either he was unable to do administrative things, or he did not want to, or the interpersonal link between the head and the deputy did not work. It has so far been a very complex, bureaucratic procedure to release the most elderly teacher from his duties of representation. I also think it is good that there has been a financial equality between the heads of school events. And I think it is good that the capping of the time limit for Kustodiates has fallen. However, I consider it a problem that the coverage of the time off has remained to the extent of a total of four hours per week, and I would like to explain this as follows. We have very few physics teachers – at least in compulsory school – and it is in practice so that physics teachers teach a lot of classes, in addition to most of them Coastode for physics collection and perhaps also class board and teacher for German or mathematics. In this case they work very much, but do much about God’s reward. Therefore, this cover should also be left to the school flexibly for a total of four discount hours, four weeks off. In conclusion: In the area of integration, I do not share the concern of "Integration: Austria", which fears that where integration is managed through the District School Council and not through a special educational centre, teachers could suddenly go to the search for children and, so to speak, convert them into a mesh so that they can become integration children only so that they can receive as many children as possible. That is to say, that is what is happening at the moment. We must not assume to the teachers that they only demand special educational support from children out of greed after shift hours! In addition, school supervision is also used for the control.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19640	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19661	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the point that's the lightest thing I can do. This is certainly the petition on Waldorf schools, not only because I think it is right to promote the Waldorf schools as well as other schools, which represent similar or the same principles – we have called for it several times – but also because I think – this has also partly demonstrated the debate in the Committee – that one should actually continue to work on this point. The principles of the Waldorf Schools state that they should be accessible without any difference to the birth, national or ethnic origin, gender, language, religion, status and wealth of parents or legal persons. If you take this sentence seriously, then, of course, the question - the Waldorf schools have also asked this question - is whether a school fee is acceptable in this context, because this is an access barrier. In the Waldorf schools, we have made a great effort to achieve this extra benefit of our parents socially. But in principle – and therefore I believe that the private school law is indeed reformed in this direction – it would be necessary to link subsidies for schools such as the Waldorf schools and other private schools not only to this catalogue of criteria, but also to the additional criterion that no school allowance should be required. Under these conditions – we discussed this very briefly in the Committee – I thought it would be useful to waste a little more than just a thought on reforming the private school law, which will light up somewhere and then turn down in this petition or in the support of this petition – in this rather soft support. I now come to another point, namely the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz. In the last few days, because of the attention of "Integration: Austria" one more point has been brought into the debate – Mr Schaffenrath has already mentioned it to us – and I believe it is worth correcting here by means of a corresponding amendment. "Integration: Austria has stated very detailedly and informedly that the proposed changes are, under certain conditions, disadvantages of schools with special educational needs, when they are run in the form of integration classes. To develop and implement this argument would require a little more time. But I think, Mrs. Federal Minister, you know this letter from "Integration: Austria" as well. It is clear that integration is taking place across Austria, that there are restrictions and obstacles across Austria, and that there is probably also an average key. It is therefore not to be seen that special directors should benefit from these supplements, whereas those who carry out the teaching are not included. At the same time, the amendment proposed by the Government's parties, within this logic, would be less favourable to integration classes in relation to those leading special school classes, does not make things any easier and not more satisfying. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A final comment on Mr Höchtl – he is no longer here now –: I am amazed that the ÖVP and, above all, Mr Höchtl, who, otherwise, when it comes to promoting young people and the same rights for young people, is not one of those who are characterised by special attention and support – for example, when it comes to reducing the age of election – but for the purpose of justifying school notes, refers to a survey on this subject among young people in Upper Austria, in which students call 80 or 90 percent for school notes. I am surprised that surveys are already an educational argument for the EIA. However, this surprises me all the more in that the students in these schools – with the exception of the 10 or perhaps 15 percent who were also against the school notes – could not come to know the reality of other performance assessment systems. However, in order to be able to assess something – even if it is asked about surveys – a certain knowledge of and information in alternative methods is essential. Mr Höchtl should be aware of this. That means that it was not a particularly good argument. But I am not used to good arguments on the issue of the performance assessment of Mr Höchtl.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19742	The amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Horngacher is speaking next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19767	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Schaffenrath's request, which concerns the abolition of the numbering system, is certainly more differentiated. When it comes to replacing the number notes with verbal evaluations, I think that very soon some of the standings would be commonplace, which basically mean the same. There are attempts to do so, but there is no special benefit or progress to be made from it. If, however, it is true that the assessment of performance is at all possible, I believe that this is not the right approach. Children are delighted with a good note and performance, they are proud of it. But if children are overly afraid of bad grades, I think that is more likely to be the wrong attitude of the parents. If a child can be sure that it is loved and appreciated as it is – with or without good grades – then the problem is not as big. But the reason why I have no right to vote in favour of this motion is another one. It is the sentence in the reasoning in which it is said that the note as a weapon in the teacher's hand to keep his students in check is Austria's daily reality. – I think this is a huge insult to the many teachers who make daily efforts to care for our children! As regards the application for the introduction of ethics as an alternative subject, I would like to say that, in my view, religion must remain a compulsory subject. It has proved to be a source of value over generations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if children are unresponsive or quit religious teaching, then an ethics lesson should be mandatory in the future. It will also depend much on how ethics is designed, how the ethics teachers are trained and what values they convey. At all times religion has taught God’s faith and love of God as well as the rules of life for the co-existence of the people who in the simple sentence "You should love your neighbor as yourself" actually say everything. It is better for children to be taught these very clear regulations than if they are taught any gay all-world philosophy. In fact, children are formable, so the task of providing values is a very responsible one. That is why I will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19816	Mrs Dunst. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, some of the objectives of the present proposal concerning LDG amendments. First of all, the first point: I see this as Mr Rada, who mentioned the subject of representation in the event of prevention of school principals. I am convinced that the countries will often make use of this measure, because often enough is heard of teachers who would have to carry out representations according to the principle of service, but this does not in fact mean that it was at all possible to get rid of this unpleasant task at all on a written request, stating the reason. As a result of the new regulation, Members who really want to take over this task and who also carry it out with the aim of achieving it will be able to take over the representation in the future. Above all, as Mr Rada has already mentioned, it is certainly also about the relationship of trust between the Director and the Deputy, who takes over the task for him. On the second point, on equality in pay for managers of vocational training days, only briefly: The organisation of working days or weeks requires a number of efforts, starting from the preparation of the students, to the search for practical places for care during these days or weeks, to the preparation of follow-up. It is therefore only fair, from my point of view, that there is this equality. Thirdly, The previous speakers have also referred to the removal of the cover for the Custodite. I would just like to say that this cover is correct. But the next step, Mrs Minister, would be to get rid of the cover in the overall downturn hours. I do not want to include a comment on the speech by Mrs Schaffenrath on the classification of school-sprayers. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They put it as if there were no other way. They know as well as I do that there is this possibility very well and that parents can speak for another school-based school. Of course, an application must be made for this, but it is possible in principle. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Yes, the condition of goodwill!]] I just wanted to say that. Summary: All points of the LDG are to be welcomed in the sense of our students.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19873	Mr Schuster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19894	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to focus on the request made by the LIF Member, Mrs Schaffenrath, on the abolition of compulsory schools. I believe that this proposal should not be realized because it brought about greater problems for families and communities. First of all, I would like to make it clear to you, Mrs Colleague: The legal situation provides that the federal government only has to legislate in principle, while the legislative and enforcement competence in this particular case lies with the countries. In the following, however, I would also like to explain to you, Mrs Colleague, why I personally believe that, despite some shortcomings, the classification of schools is still the most useful, because it is also the most economic solution. Since the communities are the school holders, the authorities in the municipalities must have the basis to be able to calculate. From the outset, you must be able to ask yourself about questions such as the following: How many children will attend our primary school next year? How many classes do I have to make available as a school holder? How many rooms need to be renovated? And so on. Secondly, the promotion of students would be another problem in the event of the abolition of school-sprayers. Mrs. Colleague! All local politicians who have to do with this know how difficult it is in the early stages, at the beginning of school, to negotiate with the national finance management and with the municipalities that everything is being re-established economically. All of a sudden, parents come and think: My children should be transported to a school 10 or 15 kilometers away. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Do you believe that parents do not also save?]] I therefore believe that this matter cannot be resolved within the meaning of the communities and not within the meaning of the parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Are the schools for the children there or the children for the schools, according to your interpretation?]] I mean, first of all, that the parents are there for the children and second, that the schools are there to support the parents, so that the children become ordinary people. That's what I mean. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Colleague! The third area, the school visit in its own township, is an important factor in the integration of youth into community life. It is absolutely in the interest of the communities that youth remains in the village. This is important for cohesion and the maintenance of local structures. The children should have friends, playmates and referees in their own community as possible. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Do you think the parents won't remember all of this?]] Already in the youth age, alienation is to be avoided from their home country. The fourth and most important reason why I am against leaving compulsory school is that parents should have a right to a safe school for their children in their own community. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What do we need school profiles if...?]] Mrs. Colleague! They always want to highlight the needs of parents and the needs of students. But they are always only talking about those cases where the children want to go to a school outside their community – and that, Mrs. Colleague, is the minority! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next item, Mrs Colleague. Two sentences to abolish the notes: I hold it with the Minister of Education of Austria on this point and therefore quote our Minister of State Gehrer. She meant: One has to consider what is best for the child and not what school parents want. What do I give notes for? For the future of the country, it is not good to reflect on the youth that everyone can reach the highest conclusion without achieving the required performance. - Quote. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mrs. Colleague! That's why I mean... [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But this has nothing to do with school-sprenning!]] I spoke on the second request to abolish the notes. – Mrs Colleague! We will not be able to give your two requests for approval for the reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20007	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20029	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Taking a position on this monster package in three minutes is hardly possible. Let me make a few comments on the Novelle-SchUG. This innovation will make it possible and legally guaranteed in future that, in accordance with the respective examination regulations, project work will be possible in the framework of the mature and diploma examinations or final examinations. Project work – as we have already heard – is nothing new in schools. They have also been carried out continuously so far. It has been shown that the independent, multidisciplinary, practical work on topics and content has brought a great deal to pupils. Work in the project team is promoting the team's ability, which is increasingly common today. These legal regulations are also very necessary in time, because the final examinations, the examinations and the final examinations have already begun, as confirmed by a work that I have brought with you here. This is a project work – one has to look at its extent! – which has an extremely interesting area on the subject. This is – it is a work within the framework of the Higher Federal Institute for Agricultural Training – about the ecological and economic impact on agriculture in the groundwater rehabilitation area. The subject is very well prepared in this work, and there are a number of interested parties who could be interested in these contents, for example the farmers concerned, the municipalities and farms in such zones and regions. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I therefore believe that it will also be necessary to draw attention to these new possibilities in addition to this SchUG-Novelle. With a school environment, I mean the economy, the businesses, but I also mean public institutions such as the communities and the associations that I think we have to say that in the future more and more students will come to them with various project concerns. I know from my professional experience that there are not always open arms. However, it must be pointed out, as I believe, that well-developed projects also bring a lot of new and valuable things to those concerned or to the project partners. A brief comment on the cost impact of this federal law or of this novelle: It is said to be additional costs of 2.7 million schilling in the field of the Ministry of Education and 1 million schilling for the agricultural and forestry schools. I only hope that the underlying data in the explanatory notes will actually vote. Finally, I do not want to mention the objections of the Federal Chamber of Labour in the opinion on the new SchUG and to approach this objection. The Federal Labour Chamber advocates that externalist examinations be exempted from the examination fee provided for in the law. This group is usually a professional who is able to catch up on the second course of education and can certainly not be counted among the big earners. Ladies and gentlemen! Lifelong learning should ultimately not fail in training costs or even exam fees!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20075	It still has Mr Mag. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will agree with the Novelle School Education Act, which provides for pre-examination examinations to be replaced by project work, because I believe that project work opens up the creative potential of young people and thus results in a development of creativity. I think this is always more meaningful than checking out knowledge that needs to be reproduced in the test and then, when the test is done, it can be forgotten again. I am concerned about discovering and developing the dynamic skills of young people, because people who have developed these skills are likely to be better able to get through in later working life than those who have accumulated lexical knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20127	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word has not been requested by the rapporteur. We shall proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each request. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1797 of the supplements. Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. I therefore begin by voting on the parts relating to the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. The amendment tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades refers to the deletion of paragraphs 7 and 10. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. There is no need to vote on the amendment requested in the numbering. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees may give a sign of consent. - That's the majority. The draft is largely adopted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. - That's the majority. This is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft at third reading may give a sign. – This also happens in a majority way. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1798 of the supplements. The draft, which is present, concerns a federal law that amends the School Education Act, therefore falls under Article 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Act and can only be decided with a qualified quota with regard to presence and decision-making. First of all, I note that the present quo is necessary for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the draft to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This draft has been adopted by a large majority, expressly indicating the existence of the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft at third reading to give a sign. – The draft has been adopted by the majority at the third reading, even if the two-thirds majority quota has been established. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1799 of the supplements. This draft, which concerns a law which amends the School Education Act for professionals, is in accordance with the nature. 14 para. To assess 10 B-VG, i.e. only in the presence of at least two-thirds of the members. First, I notice the presence quo. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft has been adopted by a majority of the required two-thirds majority. We shall vote at third reading. Who agrees to the draft in third reading? – This is the majority, as is the case with the two-thirds quorum required by the constitution. Accepted. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1800 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft has been adopted by a large majority. Who agrees to the draft in third reading? – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1801 report of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report shall be taken up by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1802 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1803 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1804 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. The report has been largely taken note of. The next vote concerns the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1805 of the additions. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1806 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of his 1807 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1808 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1809 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. – This notice has been made in the majority of cases. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1810 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. 27. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Research Report (III-87 of Supplements) 1997 of the Federal Government (1779 of Supplements) 28.point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 29. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Research Report (III-132 of Supplements) 1998 by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport (1781 of Supplements) 30. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20424	We now come to the items 27 to 30 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There was no oral reporting on all agenda items. I am the first speaker to speak in the debate, Mr Dr Martin Graf, with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20451	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Excuse me: Mrs. Hostasch! I conclude from the fact that you are here today representing the Minister for Science. I can still address you in this capacity, because you are aware of the Minister's representation. I would like to ask the Minister how he feels in the face of the striking disastrous election participation in the Austrian high school elections. I mean, this question is very topical, and I ask you to judge it after it has been interrupted by his own group, but also by the ÖVP, the coalition partner, on the question of the higher education law at the colleges. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to tell him today – and therefore ask you to direct it to him – that he can save himself the presentation of a concept for the effective representation of the students in high school courses – which has already been the content of a resolution by Mr Lukesch and Mr Niederweiser, who has also been adopted by this House, because we have already dealt with this issue with the teaching committee matter today. He will probably not be particularly pleased, but perhaps one can save the ministry the work. It was surprising that this matter became a matter of surprise. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I have already commented on this before. In the short term, I would also like to comment on the research report we are negotiating here today. In the subcommittee, but also in the Committee itself, it has been shown that there are massive deficits in our research funding, both in the university and in the non-university field, but also in ministerial order research. These are lip recognitions which are issued at the end of the legislative period with respect to the research promotion rate. I would like to say to the motion for a resolution that has been drawn up in the Committee: We would like to hear the message – as we are indeed one of the final lights in Europe, as measured by the ratio between GDP and research promotion ratio – that by 2005, as the coalition has proposed and will decide today, the research promotion rate would be increased to 2.5% of the gross domestic product. We like to hear this message, but it is a little too little determined for us. Such promises can be found in almost every statement of government, but have not yet been implemented. At the end of the legislative period, it has now been established that this research promotion rate should be increased by 2005, but without saying what is to happen in the years up to that date. I believe that this is not enough, and my group believes so. Of course, it can always be hoped that something will happen during the next or next legislative period. But you should take your own word. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that the objective of actually increasing the research rate to 2.5 percent by 2005 can only be met if we do a lot in the years up to then. The achievement of this objective is at all events being guided by our proposal. And anyone who really wants to do something seriously in the next, but also in this period must act now and must not prefer the resolution of the coalition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20532	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, Mr Brauneder, Mr Grollitsch, Mr Krüger, Mr Schöggl and others on measures to increase the F&E quota has been properly put in place, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Stippel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20556	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the short speaking time available to me, I would like to make a few comments on the two research reports 1997 and 1998. We need to see the research reports in the context of increasing internationalisation and our accession to the European Union. This is the main focus of the 1998 research report. In addition, the situation and needs of research are presented. The needs go beyond what is currently in place. My previous speaker has already responded to the research quota. The final calculations of the FFF have shown that we have already achieved a quota of 1.7 in 1998, i.e. a little more by means of additional impulses than was originally reported in the research report. We have just recently introduced the Research Promotion Act, and there are 2 million more liability frameworks available for the FFF. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: 2 billion!]] - 2 billion, thank you. I promised. – A further 500 million are used from the National Bank's anniversary fund. It's going to be impulses. There are also 80 million more available to the ITF. It is true, however, that Austria is still in need of retrospect as far as the research rate is concerned. As far as R & D expenditure is concerned, we must know that the public hand – I have already said this several times from this pult – is not so bad about the amount of the amounts. It would be desirable to have a higher share of the economy, but it is realistic to admit that the economy of Austria is rather small and medium-sized. We're missing the big companies. I would therefore be very pleased if we were to have a large research facility in Austria. For example, we have been talking about the "Austron" project for years, and I'm uring from this speaker's desk here and looking for all those responsible to bring this project to Austria as quickly as possible. As In the event that this project can be realized, I have always offered the Wiener Neustadt site in Wiener Neustadt. We would all have infrastructural conditions for this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is also the next research focus in the House, and I hope that we will be able to see further progress in Austrian research funding in the discussion of this research focus.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20592	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20613	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch, you really have to jump in all the time. I think it is very nice that you come here so willingly. They also held hands with Mr Schlögl at the special meeting. However, I think that you should pass this on to one or the other on occasion, because I am sure that, for example, the promotion of women in the field of research is also your government's concern – even if the SPÖ members are now "Go!" call. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I think it is very important to look at an area in which we have a large deficit. For example, the share of first-rate patients rose from 31.5 per cent in 1970 to 55 per cent in 1997. However, the higher you get into Hierarchy, the lower the number of women who pass through this hard landscape of the university. I have to say "hard landscape" because I am connected with many women who tell me that there is some sort of scientific mobbing. I didn't know! I think it is very remarkable, however, when the directors of the respective institutes prohibit research and the funds of all projects do not alloquiate in order to prevent women from producing such results that their works appear internationally so that they can publish appropriate papers so that they can't make a career at all. Science-mobbing is therefore an interesting thing to really deal with. It would certainly be interesting to do this in the context of a survey in Parliament when talking about quality assurance at the university. In connection with quality assurance in teaching, one should also consider the integration of women into the Austrian and the international research landscape. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Worm.]] We have very important things to do in this regard. For example, there should be reporting on the specific situation of women in the research sector in Austria. A women's promotion plan should also be drawn up, especially for the topetages, in which the so-called glass ceiling repeatedly prevents careers. I would like to see the Federal Government's activities in this direction here and there. I know that Mr Onee is serious if he wants to make sure that women prevail at the board of directors. But I also know how often the professorship falls in his back. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: At the Institute level is elected!]] I therefore believe that we should also increase the pressure from a political point of view. Professor Lukesch! You're in those bodies! Please tell your male colleagues that women do not bite that women have a brain and that this brain is in their head! [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Worm.]] In addition, there is even a law on this, namely the Women's Promotion Plan in the field of action of the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport. In § 3 para. It should be noted that as long as 40 percent of women's share in the total number of women's promotion plans is not achieved. I come to the second area I have tried to bring into the debate in 1997. This is about supporting the research performance of SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. This proposal has now collected quite a lot of dust, because the Federal Government simply does not want us to discuss how we could help small and medium-sized enterprises in this respect. I think that's a shame! We have spent two years and have not helped them for two years. Only since 1999 have there been activities in this area. We could have done this much earlier if you had taken the opposition's request seriously! Now, unfortunately, I come to the two major research reports that we really need to discuss in detail. I would just like to quote the Science and Research Council now, because it is the more irreconcilable between us, is it not? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] The Council for Science and Research has not been set up by me, but by someone else you know better than I do, Mr Lukesch! With regard to the 1997 research report, he speaks of – I quote – "dramatic collapses in the relevant part of the federal budget" and sees the "current budgetary policy as the result of a fatal misevaluation". - Not weak, isn't it? After all, the Council of Science and Research is an advisory body for the Federal Government. I think that's huge! Furthermore, the Science and Research Council says that this kind of austerity policy "makes even a semi-real science business almost impossible". – You will thus be given the certificate that in the longer term, your research policy has experienced a sluggish "loss of international effectiveness of Austrian research...". In other words, you will be given the certificate that research policy, as it is operated by the Federal Government, leads to the dead end that not only the researchers migrate to other areas, because they have better opportunities there, but also that the industry migrates, because it simply finds greater support elsewhere – look at it. For example, you're looking at Ireland! – because, elsewhere, it is easier to find venture capital than in Austria, where there are very different funds, but where such opportunities can only be found very limited. I'll tell you: For research, for the gas supply in this field, it is already five after twelve! So far, they have done nothing but talk about who should get the skills: Mr. Farnleitner or Mr. Einm? In this way everything has been blocked! The so-called research billions have not even been spent in toto for research. They are breaking up an area we need to create jobs in Austria! I ask you: Why Make You're actually breaking this area? – We need these jobs in Austria, and I think this is not responsible for you!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20683	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20701	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I will now resist the temptation to give Mrs Gredler a direct answer. I'd like to say something else. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 1997 and 1998 research reports were not for two years in a specific subcommittee of the Scientific Committee, which was set up for this purpose, although they were discussed but not adopted at these subcommittee meetings. It is a sign of Parliament's concern for research policy in our country, for the development of public interest, as expressed in the budget, and for the corresponding future areas of our economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] That is why, Mr Wabl, whether you believe it or not, it took so long for us to actually decide on things! But you also have to say: The Federal Government has acted very well! We have listed a number of initiatives in our motion for a resolution. In particular, we are voting for Bad Aussee's decisions to increase the research rate to 2.5%, so that we have finally decided on these research reports with the motion for a resolution which supports this project. Mrs Gredler! You should also say that, for example, the FFF has as many resources as never before. The same applies to the FWF. Mr Stippel also mentioned the ITF. There too, at least the volume has been secured, although international interest rates have led to a reduction in funds. In addition, you should also not mention that the representatives of other international research funds, such as the Swiss National Fund or the German Research Foundation, have not only reported on paradise in their countries in this subcommittee. Rather, the Swiss representative has said that the funds are stagnating until 2001. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] And the representative of the German Research Foundation has not only said that he is warning against research women and women's research plans, because this led to ghettoization – but that is put in place; gifted! – but he has also said and complained that the activities of the German Research Foundation are not planned. All of this, however, goes hand in hand at the much higher level of the research rate in Switzerland and in Germany, to which we should be determined to join. However, I would like to take the opportunity today to take a different position and take advantage of my remaining speaking time. I have been publicly asked twelve questions on Austrian research policy. Under the Headline "Where does research policy remain?" The President of the Academy of Sciences, Professor Welzig, and the President of the Industrial Association, President Mitterbauer, have formulated twelve questions. I am now trying to give some answers from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party. First question: How should the 2.5 percent F&E quota be realized? – Answer: Firstly, by means of fiscal research funding, as decided in the tax reform, second by an Austrian fund to be subsidized from the no longer necessary national bank reserves – this is an archival plan, which I first agreed here in this House – and thirdly by more efficient use of public funds in the field of universities, as well as in the field of economic research. Second question: Is the White Paper on Higher Education a suitable action plan for the future? – From my point of view, the answer is: No, no, no, The White Paper announced by Brussels has been prepared without the cooperation of the universities and the research industry. It is not an action plan, but it has only been formulated more or less relevant framework conditions for higher education development as a whole, as it considers Minister One important. Today, no more roosters according to this white paper. Further question: What should be the relationship between basic and performance-related research? I believe that the principle of performance-related research should be applied to all subjects. A part will be able to cope with the jurisdiction or with the partial right, another part will be able to find its way through performance – in the competition for publicly funded research contracts. My time is not enough now to answer the other questions as well. The question was: Where's politics? Welzig and Mitterbauer have thus raised their questions. – The absence of Mr. Federal Minister One in the examination of the research reports answers this question.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20778	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20797	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If Mrs Sozialminister as a member of the Federal Government is already following today's National Council debate, I would like to start by stressing a concern which I have repeatedly expressed in the Committee, namely: The high-level song, which is repeatedly voted that research should be adapted as quickly as possible and as far as possible to the objectives of industry, can at most concern a facet of research, namely application-oriented research. However, it is or in particular the responsibility of the public authorities to highlight critically where certain economic developments are going and how new technologies, new processes, new methods, new products will affect society in a social or environmental way. There are very powerful industries that make their money in risk technologies, and this is, of course, covered by the freedoms of the economy and research. But there is a need for a counterweight if research is not directed against society, i.e. to produce socially unbearable effects or to be environmentally dangerous. What I ask for is therefore that particular attention be paid to risk research, social and environmental accompanying research. In my opinion, this explicit objective is lacking in all reports from the Federal Government. Mr Lukesch! You have so particularly stressed the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lucisch and Mr Niederweisser. . I must say that this motion for a resolution is a particularly sad chapter of the motion for a resolution in this House. I have rarely read one - over many pages - such strange motion for a resolution! He almost sounds like a call to the politics of the Federal Government, in which either things that are completely vaguely formulated, or those that have been half-heartedly implemented or are out of order at all, are welcomed, praised and approved. For example, if we welcome the objective of ensuring that equality efforts and the promotion of women have an aliquota representation in the longer term, I must say to the Members of the Government: No, that's not a longer-term goal! This is a legal requirement of the Equality Act, a command to be implemented now and now and every day, according to the motto: Better be entitled to justice than later! – That is, if in a motion for a resolution you formulate a non-legislative objective, namely the equality of women on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, then that is probably the most remarkable facet of your request! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also had the opportunity in the Committee to take a little note of the special flowers of anti-female at the Austrian universities. Mr Gredler has already mentioned the cases raised in the Committee of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I think we should also mention negative examples. When I think about the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Innsbruck, I have the impression that a few decades of equality policy has passed without any trace by the professors. They have congenial helpers in certain conservative media, which, for example, already intervene in an application process in such a way that they represent the candidates – all highly qualified, habilitated women – without titles or simply keep part of their titles away from them, do not write them into the paper, while, of course, the men with the entire list of their achieved dignitys are reproduced. Similarly, one can perpetuate and maintain inequalities. I would really like to see both the top representatives of this House, the members of the Bureau, the Bureau and all the members of the Federal Government in cases where women are clearly treated differently in an application procedure, where they are not given any opportunities from the outset, or when they fall into an application procedure such as "the one is too young, the other is too old" – no one would say this to a male candidate; there would be only talk about the qualifications! ......................................................................................................................................................................................... It is high time that the Federal Government, as a whole, firmly opposes such discrimination! There are two major concerns, therefore: The first is a plea for the examination of the social and environmental impact of research projects and for the conscious promotion of this research, which is socially and environmentally relevant, or for a conscious incentive to do so. The second goal is to implement as quickly and as quickly as possible the real equality of women as possible, especially at the universities which, in a sense, co-design the social plans of tomorrow's society. That would be particularly important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20858	Mrs. Hostasch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20879	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dr. Lukesch, I regret that you were apparently not informed in good time that Mr Dr. One of you is abroad today and therefore unable to attend the plenary session because a meeting of the Council of Science Ministers is taking place in Brussels, a very important event dedicated to precisely those issues which have also been addressed here today. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch:... in Warsaw!]] Today he is in Brussels, Mr Deputies. I regret that I am better informed than you are. [[Abg. Wabl: Are we glad that they know a little!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I am annoyed by the research report without the Minister! Then he can't say that research is his focus!]] She mentions Warsaw, but he is already in Brussels and is preparing something very important – what has now been discussed by you – for the continuation of women's funding in the field of science and the university sector, for the continuation of those programmes that are being prepared and continued at EU level. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think those who, like those who work in the Committee in particular, know that Mr Dr. A person who has been able to develop a common concern on this issue at EU level, welcomes the fact that he can continue important initiatives there too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to say that I believe that both research reports have also been an important basis for a fundamental debate in the Subcommittee and in the Committee, which has not least resulted in their respective decisions and as their result the motion for a resolution has been formulated and decided. The debate also referred to the desired research rate, and I would like to stress that it is not only a concern of Mr. Federal Minister Dr. One of the concerns to achieve this research ratio within the time horizon, but also a desire and a goal of the entire Federal Government. I am going to allow myself to point out, in the context of the National Employment Action Plan, that it is an important goal for all of us to achieve this quota. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Dr. Graf asked me at the beginning of the debate how Mr. Dr. One feels at the beginning of the high school elections. I cannot tell you anything about his feelings, but I hope that at the end of the election days we will all be able to lean back with satisfaction and we will be able to point to a satisfactory outcome.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20953	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Wurm has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20978	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On land, it is lamented that Austria is spending a lot too much on research and development with 1.5% of the gross domestic product and is thus far below the European average. The President of the Research Fund for the Industrial Economy also says in the foreword of the FFF report 1997 – I quote – that: "The FFF also welcomes in principle the increased interest of the Federal Government in technology policy and is open to constructive cooperation. But one thing has to be said: Organizational measures alone cannot eliminate the research deficit. It is also necessary to provide significantly more financial and human resources for research." That is what the President of the FFF means, and in general, the impression that the State is spending a lot too much on research in Austria. High house! This impression is wrong. The research report clearly shows that the public sector spends even slightly more on research and development at 0.76% of GDP than the EU countries, which average only 0.74% of GDP. The reason why Austria is still so badly cut off in the international comparison is to look at the economy. While in the EU the business sector averages 1 percent of GDP for research and development, Austria spends only 0.72 percent of GDP – that is, almost 30 percent less. That is exactly where the problem lies, ladies and gentlemen. The example of Switzerland has already been mentioned today. Of course, it is not completely comparable, as there is another operating structure in Switzerland. We have a lot more small and medium-sized enterprises. Nevertheless, Switzerland, as measured by the gross national product, uses 2.5 times more for research than the Austrian economy. If we continue to look around and make other comparisons, it can be noted that the same picture arises whether it is Germany or, if you look further north, Sweden, Finland, Belgium or Denmark: The economy is spending more than the public sector everywhere. That's something we need to take a closer look at. That is why I also say to the representatives of the economy here in this House: In this area too, the following should apply: "Less state, more private!" [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we look at where the State is spending more on research than the economy, we find that this is only the case in countries with which we do not always like to compare ourselves economically. In the EU, for example, these are Portugal, Greece and Spain. - I just wanted to hold that. Now I would also like to come to the causes which, I think, are not insignificant. The rethinking starts now in the head. But I feel that the universities, the research institutions, are often still considered foreign bodies. If I look at Innsbruck, I notice that, for example, the university library is almost not used by the population, by the economic operators, that there is a sort of skepticism against it and that there are almost thresholds or fears of contact there. Recently, I would like to address Mr Lukasch's comments briefly, we have opened the SOVI in Innsbruck, the new Faculty of Social and Economic Sciences, and this is a successful construction. Minister One or the Federal Government has not invested little money in this really beautiful place, which is accepted by the teachers, by the students and also by the economic operators, as you can see. Balance sheet presentations are already being carried out there. What I particularly like is that in this complex, for example, the MCI will once again find its place and that this will result in a fertilization between science and the economy. That is the right way, and Federal Minister One is doing a lot in this direction. Now I come to the centres of competence. This is really something that promotes closer cooperation and also gives rise to the desire to pursue new ways. The fact that five such centres of competence already work and already have 20 applications for new centres of competence indicates that this will create new impetus. I am convinced that this new path will bring something and that we will also achieve the 2 or 2.5% of the GDP we are trying to achieve. Finally, I would like to make another appeal to the decision-makers of the FFF: Take an example to Minister One who has set up, for example, a fund with his own teaching at the FWF in his area, from which, especially for women, in the sense of female researchers, not women's research, although this is also important, incentives are offered! May this also be done by the gentlemen of the FFF! I am convinced that women are innovative, diligent and competent, and I would like to look forward to the evaluation, because that is certainly a success recipe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21049	The next speaker is Mr Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21070	Mr President. Minister of State! I also regret the fact that Mr President-in-Office of the Council is not here, not only because we always understand each other in committee, but also because there are some questions to which we wanted to address him personally. Ladies and gentlemen! Science debates always take place relatively late – as well as the reports often come into the house very late. They know that reports to the plenary are intended to control the achievement of set objectives. It's kind of a history research. Of course, the government, including my previous speaker, is trying to create a very positive, soft picture. Nevertheless, it is clear that research has not achieved the objectives and that there is no real concrete future programme. Mr Gredler has already quoted the aid call of the authors of the 1997 report, which is why I can save myself. However, it is also repeatedly referred to studies, and it is true that in 1997 there were 2.3 billion schilling spent on studies, but also on Seibersdorf and on basic funding. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Too much!]] In this context, a proposal should be made: Perhaps a study should be carried out to determine what happens to the studies. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Fischl.]] I have the impression that many studies disappear in large drawers after their creation. There is already the question: Who is responsible for the implementation of the results of studies? Who is responsible for avoiding double leaks? And who is responsible for not being hidden subsidies for any obscene associations? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Who checks the cost or the cost of studies? – I have taken along a few examples, so to speak, as grapples. I have here, for example, a study entitled "Sweine Classification – Degradation Test". This study costs 299 647 S, and as a result of this study it is more favourable to measure the bacon layer of pigs between the third and the fourth ribs rather than between the second and the third. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nearly 300,000 S!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What is being measured?]] The bacon layer of pigs half between the third and fourth ribs and not between the second and the third ribs. - We're spending 300 000 s for that! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How many pages does the study have?]] How many pages does she have? – 15 pages, without pictures. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 15? That's incredible, that's it!]] 15 pages of study for 300 000 s, which I believe is wasteful of taxpayers' money, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another example is a study on "Social Innovations for Sustainable Development". [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The length doesn't make it!]] Price: 840 000 pp. Ladies and gentlemen, there are nice stories in it. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: A formula can be so short, and...! The pages don't make it!]] I recommend this book to everyone to read, there is a lot in there. No one has ever been concerned about it, otherwise it would have been likely that an association for cultural residual exploitation would get a lot of money for a study on the joy of being different or that a study on social aspects of the life situation of prostitutes was carried out by 600 000 S and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where do you get the studies?]] – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! This simply destroys important and a lot of tax money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come to the final point of the report, which is devoted to Austria's participation in the fourth framework programme. There is of course also a soft drawing, beautifully drawn. If, for example, the number of projects is highlighted and it is said that 385 companies were involved in the submission of projects, it must be known that this is only 0.1% of Austrian companies participating in EU projects. There is also talk of a return of about 2.2 billion schillings, but the cost of submissions – and we know that the submission of such a project costs a lot of money – is in no way taken into account. The image that we have recently gained from the EU is also reflected in the report on page 27 where we can literally read: The calculation or assessment of backflow amounts, including all known sizes, is an instrument acceptable for an overall review, but ultimately only a remedy required by the Commission due to the lack of uniform documentation. The attempt to understand annual flows is not possible on the basis of current data. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Incredible!]] . This confirms exactly the picture that we have gained from the EU due to the last scandals that led to the resignation of the Commission. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Vetterwirtschaft! Raschhofer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Fischler!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reports show that research activities need to be pooled, that projects need to be questioned critically. Then it will be possible to increase efficiency. The Minister still has a lot to do, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21270	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21291	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced times, I would like to limit myself to a single point that seems important to me. It is about the research centre Seibersdorf once again. I am therefore very sorry that the Federal Minister is not here today, because he could, as I think, give us answers to important questions that arise in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He was swallowed up in the internal battle! He's going to be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...!]] The research centre Seibersdorf is the theme of an almost infinite history. Seibersdorf was once a very renowned research institute. There we have had a number of excellently qualified employees – in part – who have set milestones for Austrian research. What do we have today? – We still have an unclear ownership structure. It was offered, for example, on the part of the State of Lower Austria, to participate in this research centre. To date, no adequate response has been received from the Science Department. Federal Minister One always explains that one cannot support participation within the meaning of a new owner's participation, but only a project cooperation. – However, it is clear that the person who participates in a society also wants to speak with him. To this day, we have no answer. On the contrary: In the ownership structure, the Supervisory Board will now be significantly reduced from 17 members to 8 members. [[Abg. Fischl: Four reds, four blacks!]] The representatives of science, as well as potential customers of the research centre Seibersdorf, will no longer have representatives in the Supervisory Board. I wonder what the meaning of that should be and whether one believes that something really remains in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are four reds, four blacks!]] [[Abg. Fischl: Four reds, four blacks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also afraid that the Seibersdorf site is at risk as such. Again and again, there are rumors that parts should be transferred to the Danube Plate and that this will lead to a complete fragmentation of this once-research centre with international competence and size. Will that be the case? – To this day there is no clear answer. What the employees are doing, ladies and gentlemen, also looks like a sad story: Older employees are being pushed out – I personally know two cases in which Mobbing was actually applied – and very good employees have already gone. What remains is, however, some who still believe in this research centre will soon lose this faith, I think. What does Minister One for that? – There are ads, as last in the daily newspaper "Die Presse", in which with Minister One – with the Minister's counterfee is already advertised for a long time; we have already drawn attention to this; also Mr Bundeskanzler Klima was to see some time – apparently courage is to be made new. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: A good picture of the Federal Minister!]] [[Abg. Fischl: And off!]] Very small is somewhere "Research Center Seibersdorf". [[Abg. Fischl: And off!]] The Federal Minister says he wants new jobs in research. I have already asked him how many jobs he can expect when he advertises courage into new things in the newspaper. What does this really do to research jobs in Austria? – There is no answer so far. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Who pays,...!]] [[Abg. Fischl: None of the SPÖ defends the Federal Minister by striking calls! None for anyone!]] I am therefore afraid that this sad chapter of Seibersdorf is close to becoming a story that ends with a disintegrating of a once-large research institution, and this is very bad, ladies and gentlemen, because what we need is actually research with accents that point to the future. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The return carriage is coming, Mr. Spindelegger! You can rely on it!]] So far, in the case of this particular example, we have all remained guilty. That is why I am still sorry that Minister One is not here today. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You will be able to rely on it! That's nice!]] But, Mrs Bundesminister, just what the jobs are, you are very competent. Perhaps you can use your projects to create new research jobs in Seibersdorf. We'd be glad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21463	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21492	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the meantime, you already have a proper backpack full of criticism, which you have to take with you and transfer to Mr. Minister. There are also a number of points to be made by me in the near future. Minister! The 1998 and 1999 reports have: First of all, they are well understood and readable, especially those of the FFF and the FWF; secondly, they show clearly and clearly that no progress has been made compared to the previous year; and thirdly, the 1998 Focus Report sets out objectives and perspectives which, according to the 1999 report, have not yet been implemented and must therefore be placed in the major barrier to the announcements, as have all the previous reports. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, we had hoped that in the numerous meetings to achieve a new research policy, not only visions and objectives would be formulated, but the strategies would also be fixed with figures and budgets. Mrs. Federal Minister! To date, it is not clear how high the Austrian research effort must be at a research rate of 2.5 percent and what funds need to be spent on reaching this figure in 2005 if this timetable you have spoken about is to be observed. Dr Schmidt explained in his papers and in the committee that this amounted to 62 billion schillings. This number has never been verified to date. The Minister did not comment on this. But neither does the report itself give an answer. It only shows that an 8.2 percent increase from 1997 to 1998 will increase the federal share by a whole – listen! – 0.03 percent has taken from 0.59 to 0.62 percent. The efficiency is probably not high. I shall come back to your words again, Mr Stippel, in which you have spoken about the economy, which is to be included here. The fact is that the proportion of the federal government is about 37 percent. This means that the economy itself brings more than 51 per cent and that an 8.2 per cent increase, as the report points out, does not take five years but eight years to reach this 2.5 per cent. In any case, you need to increase the federal funds by 37 percent in the same federal share as now – which is the result of the high bill – in order to reach this 2.5 percent research rate. The FWF itself is rather modest in its demand for 10 percent increase. When reading this report, I had a little the impression that little thought was being given to the financing requirements there. It is very much thanked for the fact that there is now something more, and it is suggested – without making any suggestions on how the situation could be improved – that there is a double budget in the Federal Republic of Germany and a fourfold in Switzerland for the FWF. In addition, the visions, objectives and strategies also lack proposals for what measures – and I am returning to you again, Mr Stippel – can lead the economy to this 2.5 per cent research rate, because the tax reform alone will not satisfy the burden of tax on the economy in the field of research. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is not so "micky"!]] The answer to this question, Mrs Minister, does not have the Minister of State in the Committee, nor in the discussion on 21 January. It was given here in the High House on April 7. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: It's not like this.]] I would really ask you, Mrs Minister, to explain here when and in what form and at what level the funds are used. Finally, perhaps one more comment because I still got a minute's speaking time: Federal Minister One of them, I do not know if it is correct or not, has stated in the Committee that research institutes are generally too small and can be described as skreberg-like. The fact is, he also said, that project-related research, which ultimately creates jobs, is underdeveloped. We know the effect: The export rate is 8.2 percent in the high-tech sector compared to 17 percent in the EU average. But, Mrs Bundesminister, this criticism by the Federal Minister One who is in itself very hard and has been very harsh to science has apparently not arrived there. There is no response, nor in the report. They probably resigned. Secondly, I must also accept that when I read in the newspaper that Welzig has found at the meeting of the Academy of Sciences that resistance is to be exercised against the rules of the state. The universities are supposed to be partners of the state and not to be undermined by it. I do not think it is possible to put on the table any more a stronger call to say that nothing has happened from the political point of view. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21547	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21569	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This comprehensive research report shows how wide-ranging research is being carried out. In the event of transparency, there is no area that remains unexplored. In the field of medicine – in other areas it will behave similarly – I consider it extremely problematic to have research financed to a very high proportion of industry. When the pharmaceutical industry finances congresses, trainings, studies and research, it hardly does it for humanitarian reasons, but it does it to run marketing. Often products do not keep what first research results promise. We know how different, yes contradictory, research results can be, depending on what results will be sought. How often BSE has been played down by the UK – as now by America the dangers of hormone meat! The effect of hormones on hormone-dependent tumours is secured. We also see the real increase in the number of patients with breast and prostate cancer. How much the tobacco industry is trying to address the consequences of nicotine use! Although research results indicate the dangers, scientists also denied some nicotine-related damage in discussions prior to the decision-making of the Tobacco Act. Such research results can be achieved in many areas. Only the questions and attempts must be given the desired direction. Short to the history of time: There is a large-scale contemporary research project Austria – Israel 1945 – 1995. Apart from the fact that the State of Israel had not yet been established in 1945: Do you hope that Shoah, in whom Austria was not immeasurably involved, can be ruled out when the timing of the relationship begins only in 1945? Was Theodor Herzl only the Dreyfus process decisive for his "Jewish State" or perhaps the atmosphere in Vienna? The intention of this project is a very good one, but it is only a little bit to show the relationship only from 1945 on. Perhaps we recognize some parallels to the present when we explore our history. Antisemitism and xenophobia have similar roots. In the sense of humanity, we have to fight against both. Is there any fear of the Courage to open up the story that one would also want to explore the Austro-Palestinian relations? – Palestinian rights must be respected. ==References== It is hoped that this will be possible in May 1999. Only: Not 65 000 Austrian Palestinians have been destroyed and no more than 100,000 have been stolen, driven out and deprived of their human rights and dignity in Austria! – It would be nice if Parliament were to be informed about these research results. For reasons of time, I would just like to highlight health promotion research, gender studies and transport related environmental research. We welcome this very comprehensive report and hope for the results for the future in addition to the list of projects.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21621	The next speaker is Mr Mentil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21642	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To this item on the agenda is an interesting, nice contribution in the "Presse" of 12. May appeared. I mean, it's getting to the point when there's – I quote – there: "Fördertöpfe/Any animal's pleasures. Research funding may lack money in Austria, but there is no lack of institutions to distribute the scarce resources. This is due, on the one hand, to the domestic tradition of the proportional distribution of competences. For example, science and economics ministers each have their own institutions to promote promising research projects." In view of the small resources, we really have to ask ourselves whether it is necessary to have so many competent bodies and thus also a corresponding administrative burden. This, of course, means that research, for the matter itself little remains. Why do two ministries have to be responsible for this at all? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Plus Destination Research!]] Why can't we be prepared to make a further development and try to handle this matter centrally in a ministry? Interested, committed economic agencies that need research not only report in recent weeks but constantly and express their desire for continuous development. Therefore, we do not understand why things are not being driven forward and changed in 1994 from the content and structural point of view. There are obviously a number of APA issues or opinions by the Minister. For example, I read that the following was said on the occasion of a symposium: The first part of the research strategy will be sent to the National Council in the form of the annual research report at the end of April. A Green Paper on research policy will be available by the end of June on the basis of the draft. However, the final report will not be presented until after the National Council elections in autumn. Minister: This is a paper for the next few years and not for a National Council election campaign. In my opinion, if we approach the restructuring in such a way that we take things from one election date to another and always look at them from the point of view of the election campaign, we will clearly not come to a restructuring or a corresponding outcome in the foreseeable future, in particular in view of the interlocutory nature of each department and the distribution to the individual research bodies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21678	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21699	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Spindelegger, who is very concerned about Seibersdorf. I can only tell him that the restructuring process, the Seibersdorf and the Arsenal, will be a much more promising and successful one. By the way, there is no provision for Seibersdorf to be moved to the Wiener Platte. This information is wrong. The economic success of Seibersdorf had already been restored in 1998. Last year, due to the measures initiated by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Minister, it has for the first time returned to a profit. I see the process that is taking place in Seibersdorf as a very difficult but future-looking, very reasonable and economically necessary activity. Anyone who has participated and worked in a rehabilitation case somewhere knows that this does not happen without pain for individuals and painful individual measures. However, I believe that Mr Spindelegger has been so worried because Seibersdorf in Lower Austria is really the only oasis in which research is being carried out. Because if you look at the way in which the companies that sought and were approved in Brussels for research funds are distributed structurally to Austria – a colleague has already mentioned that 385 applications have been made by companies – then you can see that 162 of them come from Vienna, 114 from Upper Austria and 102 from Styria. It is also precisely what the federal states are doing in the field of research and technology, and it is recognized that there are some federal states in which research and technology policy is really in a desert. Ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly what the problem is. The structural problems faced by the Austrian economy – Mr Nußbaumer has mentioned it: relatively little high-tech and a relatively large range of raw materials – also lead to the fact that the participation of Austrian companies has so far been very modest. This is currently the weakness of our research policy. In contrast to the industrial sector – the good industry companies really research very intensively, take advantage of the opportunities and actively participate in the development of the research infrastructure – it is very badly ordered in the industrial sector. There's a need to catch up. But this catch-up process must take place in the minds and brains of the people. It is therefore necessary, before successfully bringing this process to the rails, to put in place infrastructure measures, to enable a new kind of training in Austria through activities such as technical colleges, or to initiate centres of competence to research with small and medium-sized enterprises as a point of crystallization for these activities. It is therefore right that these activities have been put forward in time, and it is certainly to be expected that the measures and the additional inflows will be successful over the next few years. I am convinced that it would by far not be enough if we were to make this quota increase in Austria immediately. The companies would not even be able to collect the funds we would make available. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21743	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of the III-87 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this notice to give a sign. – I note that attention is made by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1780 of the supplements. Here too, I may ask you to give a sign in case of consent. – The notice is also made by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of the III-132 report of the supplements. Here again, in case of consent, I am looking for a sign. – I note that attention is made by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1781. I would ask for a sign in the case of approval of this resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report. The resolution was adopted by a majority vote. (E 184.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades on measures to increase the R & D quota. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Graf's request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of his report in 1782. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request. . I note that the request was accepted by a majority. 31. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the report (III-191 of the Supplements) of the High School Council in accordance with § 6 para. 2 Z 7 FHSTG on the activities of the University Council in 1997, presented by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport (1783 of the Supplements) 32. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on motion for a resolution 675/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Leopold Schöggl and comrades concerning the establishment of vocational education and training courses, social professions and medical professions (1787 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21863	We come to points 31 and 32 of the agenda, which are being debated under a debate. There is no need for reporting. The first speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21890	Mr President. Minister! High house! The high-school report clearly shows that some sand has come into play in the further development of vocational education. The procedures for assessing, approving and recognizing eligibility are not satisfactory. For example, as the processes relating to the high-school courses in Rottenmann and Irdning in Styria show – and this will be done by Mr Grollitsch – these processes are particularly unsatisfactory for those concerned. I would have liked to ask the Minister at this point, in particular, how we should continue with those high-school studies, in which the time pressure has led to the fact that the raw buildings are now standing and cannot be used, because we do not know how to proceed and whether he is very disappointed about this. Ladies and gentlemen! A catalogue of criteria has been submitted by the University of Applied Sciences. Will it be decided? How will it continue? In particular, the statements of the High School Council on structural adjustment in the post-secondary field are entirely in line with the demands of freedom. But with today's decision towards academies law, you go a completely different and in our eyes wrong way. We want to upgrade and make those training paths that meet the criteria of the University of Applied Sciences Law. This is exactly the same as the demands of the University Council. Minister! This means also those academies that meet the criteria of the University of Applied Sciences Law in the social and health fields and that we want to upgrade liberals to technical colleges. Ladies and gentlemen! It would also have been good and necessary to invite the President of the High School Council to the Committee as a person of information. He could have explained the figures in the development plan and the measures. Minister! We would also have liked to ask the Minister what concrete conclusions he draws from this report and what measures he will take. Finally, there is another important point: Important personnel decisions are under way in the College of Applied Sciences. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Despite elections – as we know, the conditions of power will change substantially and other majority relationships will have to continue, ladies and gentlemen, work must continue. We're already saying: Propore policy has no place at the time of the appointment of the University Council, because the University of Applied Sciences Council is exclusively available to train young people. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21937	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21958	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In contrast to my previous speaker, I would like to stress that the University of Applied Sciences report proves that there are 5 700 students in 1997 and that the report is therefore absolutely in place. In 1998/1999, there will be 8 000 students, and this is exactly what the plan is. In addition, some 2,500 students were admitted in 1997 – with 6,600 applications – thus proving that there is a significantly higher demand than places available. However, I find it interesting that in 1994 25 percent of students were AHS graduates. This share increased to 37 percent by 1997, while the number of BHS graduates decreased from 41 to 31 percent. I find this remarkable in that the technical universities are more practical or professional and this orientation is actually contrary to the graduates. The I development plan provides for 10,000 university students by the year 2000 and this objective will be achieved. In the study year 2004/2005, a third of all students are expected to attend a vocational college. For comparison: In Germany, the quota is 40 percent, in the Netherlands 60 percent. But the Austrian high school system is very young, and it has been rapidly expanded. Competition with universities has proved successful, not least thanks to the offer. The graduates are well asked by the labour market; there is a low age of entry, and they refer to professional experience. There is a high permeability in a total of 14 higher education courses for professionals at the present time, so that it is quite possible to say that the construction of the high school sector is extremely successful. Currently 52 courses are established with – as has been said – 8,000 students. The system is therefore permeable and open. Plan II is in preparation for the study year 1999/2000. If there are now some critical voices that say that no structural adjustment of the post-secondary sector is taking place or that there is a lack of a high-level guidance for the high-school sector, this may be true. There may also be a better regional coordination of the courses. But in total, there is certainly a positive balance for the higher education sector at the moment. This is a very encouraging development. The expectations have been met. The technical colleges are a good addition to the universities, for which the Minister – in absence – and his predecessors, in particular the officials of the Ministry, Mr Höllinger and the other officials, are to be thanked. If the professional universities of Rottenmann and Irdning do not work in Styria, then this may be the case with the private institutions there. It works in Carinthia, and in other federal states it also works perfectly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22004	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22026	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out a very depressive situation. I have been approached by colleges of study students who are very upset about the way they are doing, which they are obliged to be admitted to the university now. There has been a symposium on this with Mr. Federal Minister One. All agreed that they would not. A original vote was set before them, but it is so comprehensible that we do not know whether they can now carry out this original vote to the desired extent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: I hope you have agreed to our referral request!]] They cannot participate in the same structures as the members of the universities, for the simple reason that their curriculum does not make it possible. They have such a streamlined curriculum and a short stay at the technical colleges that they are unable to spend the same time as students at the university. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did you agree to our referral request? – You rejected it!]] That is why I think it is necessary to give the people concerned a hearing and give them the opportunity to structure themselves differently. So far, they have found methods to structure their representation differently. They are independent, also financially, and they want to continue to do so. Membership in its representation is voluntary. This is a remarkable process, I must say, and that is something which the liberal students have called for in the election campaign, namely that the ÖH can only recover its contributions due to voluntary membership, so that the ÖH is forced to focus more on the needs of students. What is happening now because of compulsory membership is that fewer students are interested in it. With a certain expression of fear, I perceive that only 27 percent of students went to vote at the last election of ÖH, and that this evening – tomorrow evening we will know exactly – even fewer people will take part in this election. This is, roughly estimated, a quarter of the electorate, and I think this is a big alarm sign. On the other hand, for the students of the colleges, I would like us to support the path they have taken. That is why I would like to ask the government parties, after the talks that have been held with these representatives, to comply with the promises given to them and not to "roll" them constantly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22074	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Gredler! I only made calls to Horst Bachler, the Secretary-General of the students at the colleges. He quite agrees with the rules that have been adopted, namely that... [[Call the liberals: Is that an ÖVPler?]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler:...but not!]] Well, but his secretary-general, right? I do not assume that the two are different. At any rate, they agree, because the promise – as you mentioned it – makes sense that you say: A change and direct involvement in the ÖH elections are only possible in agreement, and that is beyond that only when there is a new law. – So there is no real reason to panic in the area. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why did you decide?]] On the report itself: I think it is very clear that the technical colleges are a great success and that the High School Act, which has been adopted under Minister of Science Busek, is also a law which is quite good in the field of execution. To the contents: If the report shows that in 1997 there were already 5 800 students working in 40 colleges and that we now have 8 600 students in 46 degree programmes – Mr Posch pointed out that demand is now unevenly greater than supply – then I must say that there is certainly a need to meet demand accordingly. The objective of achieving the reduction of regional disparities must be explicitly supported by the technical colleges or, rather, the technical college. Therefore, it is also useful that projects and considerations such as those in Rottenmann or in Irdning/Raumberg should be pursued further. Of course, it makes sense to ensure a corresponding university offer in those areas that have greater distances to university cities, for example by forcing professional universities to do so. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: There is already the raw building!]] I think that there is still a lot to be done in the area of increasing the permeability and access of different courses to vocational education and training, in particular in view of the fact that the report states that the number of students in the dual education system has fallen from 10 to 7 per cent, despite the introduction of the VET. In my opinion, in some cases there is a selection which is not desirable, because we have also established the vocational colleges to enable people who come from the field of vocational training and from the dual system to be permeable to higher education. In the context of structural adjustment in the post-secondary area, there is certainly also a lot to be done. I would like to have another request, and I would ask you, Minister of State Hostasch, to give this to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. To be forwarded to: It is this wish that this be clarified before, as it were, high-school graduates are integrated into the public service sector, that this is clarified even before the Baccalaureate is introduced, for example, at the universities in the form of the three-tier system. This question has not even been clarified for the degree of the "Master of Business Administration" and the degree of the "Master of Advanced Study" already introduced in the University Study Act 1997. I think it makes sense that there are lines that are also comprehensible.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22168	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22190	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have previously nodded when Mr Schöggl asked for vocational education courses on the subject of medical and social institutions. – I am now telling you about a very up-to-date response from the Federal Minister: "Since the continuing education sector as a whole is designed to train primarily for private sector activities, demand for employment in the public service is extremely low." The current state of affairs shows that, but the development that this area is also being opened up through vocational colleges will not last long, and we support it very much. This answer provides me with the opportunity to believe the credibility of the self-proclaimed educational expert Niederweiser on the basis of statements from his party colleague – and not in my opinion! – to measure and in this context to draw comparisons between reality and what is being transported outside. Delegates Niederwieser asks his Federal Minister whether the graduates of the vocational colleges have A-valuability, which can, of course, be of crucial importance to them in terms of the possibility of merit. The Minister of Finance first quotes the Minister of Finance. – He answered me a question: That's not my place, ask elsewhere! He replied, however, that the Federal Ministry of Finance considered that general recognition of the value of A should not be allowed. But what does Mr Niederweiser do? – A week later, you can read in the press: "In future, graduates of professional universities entering the Federal Service as contract staff will be rewarded as academics. This conclusion is drawn from the answers to a number of questions to the Ministries by the SP-scientist Erwin Niederwieser." That's what he says against better knowledge! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is immense!]] Mr. Niederweiser! Don't worry about the graduates of the colleges! They didn't deserve that! If you don't want to, then don't ask questions, but you'll submit useful applications, which you can also use! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it has already been announced that I am making myself strong for Raumberg and Rottenmann, I would like to say: Mr Posch could perhaps be convinced by his party colleague Schachner-Blazizek from Styria. There is a one-way, well-founded two-week-old decision of the Steiermärkische Landtag, in which the rejection of the application for these two specialized universities by the Minister of State in January of this year – he called them not worthy of funding – was not accepted and demanded that these two colleges, which are very suitable and to be positioned there, should also be implemented with a view to the extension of the new programme II. I believe that Mr Amon, too, has spoken in this sense, and Mr Kröll nods as well. These projects must be continued. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I ask you: Make this Styrian wish, which is also the wish of your party colleague Schachner, Mr. One – if you want to lend me your inclined ear now and meet him –! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22237	Mr Niederweiser, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. I would ask you to present the facts to be corrected and the facts. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22259	My previous speaker Grrollitsch claimed that I would insecure the FH graduates by claiming that they were A-grade. The fact is that, in the quoted issue, I have explicitly stated that it is possible to be classified as academics in accordance with contract staff law, just as you have quoted it, but that this is still open to officials. That was the complete issue, and I ask you to quote completely in the future and not incomplete and wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22292	The Federal Minister is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22310	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief comment and give you an information relating to the non-medical medical professions mentioned in the debate. It is right what you have said, namely that legal reasons still exist for the establishment of an appropriate subject area. However, I have already tabled a government proposal through the Council of Ministers to amend the Health and Hospital Care Act, which is already in place in the House. I assume and hope that the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 10 October. It will be possible to deal with this innovation on June and to give new opportunities as a result.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22341	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. I do not have any further comments to make on this. Since no final word is required for reporting, we come to the votes which I have taken separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of this report III-191 of the supplements. I would ask that the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of taking note, give a sign of approval. – The request for information has been accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1787 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – I notice: The notice shall be taken by a majority. 33. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Stenographic Protocol (III-181 of the Supplements) of the Parliamentary Survey on Quality assurance for teaching and research at home universities (1784 of the Supplements) 34. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Willi Brauneder and comrades on improving the efficiency of the Danube University Krems (1788 of the Supplements) 35. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the motion for a resolution 786/A (E) by Mr Dipl-Ing. Leopold Schöggl and comrades concerning the new rules on admission to study foreign Austrians at Austrian universities (1789 of the Supplements) 36. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1624 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Romania, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Slovenia of 7. February 1998 extending the CEEPUS programme (1785 of the Supplements) 37. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1642 of the Supplements): Exchange of notes between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Italian Republic on the mutual recognition of academic degrees and titles and Appendices (1786 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22451	We now come to points 33 to 37 of the agenda. The debate is being held together. I do not have a wish for reporting. We are therefore going into the debate immediately. Mr Brauneder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22481	Mr President. High house! I refer to the survey on quality assurance for research and teaching. I have already mentioned the following example: Some 100 years ago, in many American newspapers, annoncens were found, in which doctors of medicine advertised for their practice, saying that they had been doctorated in Vienna on a certain day. I repeat: That was 100 years ago. Some of these doctors have even gone to lie. Because if you look into the archives with us, you can find that they have never been promoted here. But apparently the reference to Vienna was considered a quality feature. – I do not want to know what the practice of an American doctor today, since we are located in the list of medical faculties somewhere near Thailand, would look quite far below, if he now wished in a newspaper that he had received his doctorate in Vienna! However, I would like to say that, contrary to many unacquainted calls, especially in certain media, perhaps here and there in circles of politicians, I believe and have had the experience that our universities abroad are quite recognized: I could explain to myself the fact that, for example, in some of the faculties I know, the addition of visiting professors is greater than ever. However, it should be noted that, while this survey on quality assurance for research and teaching is held on the one hand, on the other hand, the legal situation must be characterised by the following questions: Do you really think it makes sense to increase quality that from the third semester, that is, after a year of assistantship, as a university teacher can be used for independent teaching, often stand in the audience and read photocopies? Do you really think it is an increase in the quality of research and teaching that you can get into a pragmatic service relationship without a master's examination, that is, without habilitation? In addition, the irony often comes that someone whose writing was rejected as habilitation is pragmatized on the same script on a somewhat lower level, with the same effect that he is then entrusted with independent teaching. With regard to the teaching: Do you really think it is a quality feature that you can take a four-time diploma part examination with us? Multiply this with the number of about 18 to 20 diploma parts exams in studies such as the study of law science! This is a European unique, I must add. Do you really think it is an increase in quality that is due to the now compelling third examination date in the middle of the semester, which until before the century law, as Mr. Lukesch the new UniStG... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's what we've always done!]] Mr. Lukesch! At a small faculty this may go, but at a large faculty it is so that a wealth of courses must be cancelled! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I stand for the students!]] Me too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I want students who are trained in the lecture hall, but not students who study somewhere and come to the university only to take exams! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have your opinion, and I have my opinion. Your faculty, Mr Lukesch, has not been praised in American newspapers 100 years ago! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you really think it is an increase in quality in teaching that we have five absolutely incompatible study plans for each faculty in Austria, which makes it almost impossible for students to change their place of study? – Maybe you don’t think so! Swiss colleagues have always envied us with Austrian lawyers that we teach almost immediately at all the faculties, because if they drive a train hour from Bern in some direction, to Lausanne, to Fribourg or Zurich, then they can't start their jus studies. And you have created this situation in Austria now! Originally, many years ago, the university's ground-breaking view of the lawyers – I mention the example that I'm interested in – was as follows: Hearing room, hearing room, hearing room, hall, room for the deanate, a professor's room. Apart from the two latter, all rooms were audiences. If you go through there now, you can find that almost all the hearing rooms have become office rooms. But not just that! In addition, one has also drawn a ceiling to double the number of offices! Do you think it is an increase in the quality of research and teaching that the bureaucracy has so greatly increased? – I have to tell you: I don't think that's an increase in quality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you think it is an increase in the quality of research and teaching that at the moment, as it were at the hour, only 19 per cent of the eligible students elect their representatives among the students? If this continues, students are only represented by 19 percent, and these determine what quality is at the university! Give yourself the answer! I think that this survey would have been unnecessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22555	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Rada. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22574	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the advanced time and given the hectic nature of the science debate, I would like to comment on only two points in the short term. It should not be surprising that, as a Lower Austrian Member of Parliament, I am somewhat concerned with the request made by Mr Brauneder concerning the Danube University of Krems. It may be true that perhaps in the history of the founding, the efficiency between input and output was not as expected from a university institution at the beginning or even at the start. In the meantime, however, very decisive reforms have been made. It has succeeded in finding entry into so-called scientific niche disciplines. In addition, it will certainly be necessary to examine – and this examination will be completed in the autumn – how far under financial participation of the Federal State of Lower Austria a new concept of this Danube University of Krems could take place, also with a corresponding shift idea from other ordinary university courses. One last: The S & D Group absolutely welcomes the extension of the CEEPUS programme to another five years, because it has proved itself extremely successful and not only enables Austrian students to have interpersonal relations, but also excellent scientific results, which will ultimately benefit our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22607	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22625	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to quote on the important point concerning the Parliamentary Survey on Quality Assurance Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Hans Niedermüller of the Veterinary Medical University of Vienna, Institute of Physiology. He's not suspicious of being a liberal. This unwarranted university professor – you will know him better than I do, Mr. Lukesch! – said: "What seems to me and what seems to be missing in general are forward-looking and groundbreaking new concepts and reflections in this direction, which should actually be made on the occasion of this survey for the future." If you don't see what it was all about, because in Austria everything doesn't work so wonderfully, if you think that quality at our universities is no problem at all, and in particular the right to serve is an excellent one, and so on, then, as I think, we have missed our goal in this survey. We should have done less of a umbilical show! Mr. Lukesch! I am telling you this because the opposition parties had no opportunity to nominate experts at a time when we still had an influence on the entire list. And that was the reason why a umbilical show came: There have been a number of professors who have explained to us how wonderful everything is and, of course, we have nothing to change at all. That's a pitiful process! Perhaps we could make a survey which brings new results and insights to all those involved, namely, first for the students who are present and want them to be taken more seriously as a partner at the university, second for the members of the middle building, so that they know that in future they will receive a payment due to their achievements and not, so to speak, because of their persistence, and third for the Austrian university professors who should be credited and appreciated for their performance and not for any Pragmatizations that have been pronounced at a time when they have not yet been able to assess how these rulers will develop. . I say "masterships" because you know exactly that women are hardly represented at this level. I would like to comment on the other points that should be discussed, for example on the request of the liberals in relation to Matura from Austrians to foreign schools. The graduation of Matura at a foreign school has the result that there are difficulties in accounting. In the case of countries where there is a numerus clausus, my group is in a divided situation, which will also be expressed during the vote. I have a great understanding of the difficulties that Austrian children have in such a case. I do not think that they should be allowed to bathe out something for which they cannot do anything at all! Because at the age of 17, they cannot simply decide to leave the parents to make their matura in Austria! And exactly these children may then be punished, so to speak. I think that's very sad. Professor Brauneder, I would like to replicate your comments. At the Faculty of Medicine – the Of course, you could not praise it because the result is really devastating – you have a weekly opportunity to carry out tests! [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder: Written exams?]] No, oral exams, which cost the professor much more time than written exams! And I have to tell you: The number of students at the Faculty of Medicine is quite similar to that at the Faculty of Law! It is an organizational matter! I think it is very common if professors at Austrian universities do not comply with the laws adopted here in the House. I recently took part in a panel discussion at the university. You know exactly what we're talking about! All the political groups were represented there, and it was clearly said to us that there are not only the legal faculty, but also other faculties, professors who do not comply with this third examination date, which is provided for by the law. I believe that this is a procedure which is certainly not to be welcomed, and I would like the ministry to act in this regard on a disciplinary basis, because in this way the students are denied a right. I mean, that's why we should show some activity. Federal Minister I am sure that this will be learned by you, Mrs Hostasch, and it would be good if he supported the students concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22661	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22682	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If one has attended the survey on quality assurance and has tried to draw a conclusion from it, one concludes: There are not many professional groups to which society sets such contradictory demands as it does towards the modern university teacher and the university teacher. At a mass university, the university teacher is intended to respond to as much as possible each student as possible with high-indebtedness differentials, while acting efficiently, cost-savingly, tax-savingly, but using all modern, free tools purchased. It is intended to motivate independent learning and research, taking into account that presence and personal participation cannot be required. It should take into account personal and private conditions, such as part-time work, family life or the like. Of course, this university teacher has specific inclinations for students to promote, she has to invent refined and student-friendly seminar and diploma work topics and, of course, to be awarded in day and night care. It has to identify high-densities without going along, it has to give literature tips day and night, it has to buy a private loan library and make it available free of charge. Furthermore, it must constantly research independently in order to keep up with the latest state of science. It must also ensure that third-party funds are constantly available to the Institute; it must not neglect necessary media and PR work, because there is no third-party funding otherwise. She must also befriend her that she is called for a permanent legitimacy of her doings, says evaluation of the teaching achievements by students, students, superiors, the public et cetera, in other words, that constant pressure of publication is, so to speak, a challenge to her. It is happy to admit that it has long passed on its own personal rights and family intentions. Her constant willingness to mobility keeps her in motion, she sets herself up for every national and international ranking, just as she has a beauty competition as a challenge and takes care of any sexual discrimination or also successfully resists it. This list can be continued at any time. Personal names, even if I mentioned the female, always apply to both sexes. The recent ÖH study on the situation of universities and their qualities shows that it is unacceptable to speak of the location of the university or of the poor quality. – I think this study is very informative. I almost recommend them as a follow-up to the survey on quality assurance and would also like to recommend them to the protocol, because it shows that the problems on the ground need to be solved, that they look different from those of veterinary doctors and lawyers at economic universities and that humanities are not as bad as they are generally thought. In other words, it is advisable for universities to take differentiated problem-solving paths, as well as for the Ministry to weaken a little of the impression that exists at universities: The Minister provides us with a permanent large-scale building site, and we are busy drawing up signs, providing locks, securing the künettes, thus providing care, care, lock-up, security, and not becoming the real thing. I also took this as a succus from the quality assurance survey, and I hope we will still have many of the evaluation possibilities. There's enough work in front of us!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22732	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22750	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to say a few words about this survey. The title of the survey "Quality assurance for teaching and research at the local universities" was misunderstood. The individual speakers have also clearly demonstrated this in their comments: Many have understood the title as if it were measures in the sense of quality management and in the sense of the relevant standards. It was actually an event for steam and frustration discharge. It was more or less an alibi event, and it will show how far the problems discussed there will only lead to further treatment and whether they will lead to concrete measures. The fact that Mrs Brinek has mentioned that the problems are everywhere else is essential, but this does not require a study because it is in itself that the problems of technicians and lawyers at universities are different. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A short time ago on my request concerning the elimination of discrimination against domestics in the course of admission to Austrian universities: There is an urgent need to remedy this abuse, in so far as it is not possible to study at Austrian universities in German-speaking or Austrian schools abroad if they do not meet the study requirements for admissions in the country concerned. That means: An Austrian who studies in Germany cannot study medicine in Austria if he does not meet the conditions for the Numerus clausus. – This maladministration must be stopped. I therefore call for the Committee's report to be rejected and approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22786	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22808	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler, I do not think it is just an organisational question, but this problem is systemic. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler:... at the Faculty of Medicine!]] Especially at the Faculty of Medicine! Do you not know the study of this Dutch group, which has said that our medical studies are really very sad? Professor – it’s not about the dates, it’s about the study itself; of course, the dates can then be included – you have pointed out that the medical study was a superstudent or the medicine enjoyed as such highest recognition, but that was 70 years ago! [[Abg. Dr Gredler: It's about the exam dates!]] The Vienna School was indeed the most famous, it was also found among its representatives Nobel prize winners. I am thinking, for example, of Landsteiners, who actually discovered the blood groups in Austria, but these research has only been published in America because he has been expelled – we know about this problem. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Especially the medical study has not got a particularly good reputation for us, especially through this group in the Netherlands. This report deals primarily with medical studies and university medical research in Austria. However, the conclusions are by no means specific to medical studies, but they show, as I said before, system-immanent weaknesses at our universities. These shortcomings and weaknesses have already been pointed out by the medical faculties in recent times. This should in fact be known to the Committee on Evaluation of the Rectors' Conference. Why nothing has been done – even by the ministry – I wonder. What are these shortcomings in reality? – The study law of medicine is outdated! These structures were created in 1902. A reform came in 1979, and it was only marginal. One has increased the number of Rigoroses from 16 to 23, but that is of course not a solution. There is no networked learning in individual subjects within the three study sections. The first patient contact comes in the third section of the study. It's too late! The delay in study occurred and occurs during the first part of the study – that is the theoretical part. There are many medical students who want to do something practical. Mr Minister – unfortunately he is not here – your ministry has never been able to get through to a fundamental reform of medical studies for decades! Now there is a curriculum of the University of Vienna and also of the University of Graz, which introduces a much more practical study. Mr Minister – I am telling him now in the absence – ensure that this study is also carried out and that the relevant controls are given! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22859	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We do not have the rapporteur's final word and therefore we are voting. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote which I would like to take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the request from the Scientific and Research Committee to take note of this Protocol III-181 of the Supplements. If you would like to take note of this, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The minutes are thus taken into account. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1788 of the supplements. If you want to do so, I also ask for a corresponding sign. – This is also done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1789 of the supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – It is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the request of the Scientific and Research Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1624. If you want to give these, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the case with the vote. Accepted. Finally, we have the opportunity to vote on the request of the Scientific and Research Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and its annex in 1642. So You want to do this, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done in a single light. Approval shall be granted. 38. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report (III-190 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for Civil Service and the financial contribution related to it for the years 1997 and 1998 (1829 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22958	I now call point 38 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. We shall therefore proceed to the debate immediately. First speaker is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are already discussing the civil service report for the last time, and each time we refer to unsatisfying situations in this military service. Most of the time, we have been criticised from this speaker's desk – and we have to do this again today – that the number of civil service applications is still on the rise. There are over 9 000 civil service applications per year. You know very well that the Austrian federal army has assumed a civilian service number of about 6,000 a year. These 3,000 are missing from the army in fulfilling the important and necessary obligations assigned to it under the Constitution. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have also repeatedly criticised the fact that this civil service is listed in the Constitution as a military service in exceptional cases. That is, someone who is unable to provide the service with the weapon for reasons of conscience can provide the service. After the abolition of the Civil Service Commission, to which we have also known ourselves, however, this provision, which is standardized in the Constitution, has in fact become dead law. Today, every capable young man has the free choice of either serving with the weapon at the Austrian federal army or doing this military service. Since there is no longer any regularity at all and even the longer duration seems not sufficient to compensate for the benefits of civil service to military service, there is this inflow. Federal Minister! Why this is so problematic, one can finally see the use of the federal army, which then cannot be carried out more or less inadequately, such as in the field of disaster protection. We have seen it in the case of Galtür – I was there myself a few days ago – where you are still doing away with the consequences of the environmental disaster of last winter. There, soldiers were urgently needed to eliminate these environmental damage. There is no available, however, because, in this short period of time, in particular, when it is possible to get rid of the bulkes as best as possible, almost all Tyrolean defence workers must provide assistance on the Burgenland border. Minister of the Interior! That's what I'm asking myself: Why is it not possible to use civil servants who declare themselves willing to provide a service to society, including civil protection, for this important possibility of use? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It should be possible to do so, especially where there are not enough basic defenses for these tasks. We should therefore not promote the foreign civil service either. The service has to be performed as a service to the Austrian society and therefore also exclusively domestically. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That would be important, Minister of the Interior. We have an absolute manco in civil and civil protection. It would therefore be an important task for you to transform civil service into such a civil and civil protection facility. Instead of trying hard to search for civil service places in any organizations – which you will find, of course, because these cheap workers like to be seen – you should ensure that civil service, if you already have this compulsory obligation – and you know very well that we believe that, in the medium term, the general obligation and therefore the civil service obligation to question is also a useful activity. Especially in the field of civil and civil protection, it would be necessary – Mr Gaál knows what I am talking about – to increase the use of civil servants, because this would also be a very important task for Austrian society.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23043	Mr Schwemmlein has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Total speaking time of your club: 17 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23065	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will be very brief, but I would nevertheless like to say thank you. On the one hand, the current civil service report is an extremely comprehensive, very well-designed and informative one. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Are you so to speak satisfied?]] That is why I can thank you, Mr Minister, and above all your employees for this report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all those who provide civil service, because it is a fact that civil service in Austria enjoys an extremely high degree of acceptance and is no longer to be thought of if we consider the wealth of social institutions that civil servants are very happy to accept. On the third essential point, ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond briefly to a press release which has been entitled "New concern for the rise of civilians". In this, Mr Kiss has dramatically pointed out that there seem to be over 103,000 men waiting for the assignment of a civilian service. We have already talked about this in the Committee, but I would also like to briefly discuss the House's plenary session. Mr Kiss has, of course, more or less gone wrong on the glue. In the meantime, we were able to tell him very easily that he misinterpreted the figures. The fact is that he has added nearly 80 000 to those waiting for civil service. In principle, we are doing very well to ensure that the requests made by civil servants are made in a positive manner and that they are in line with the request for an appointment. However, I believe that all of us, ladies and gentlemen, are called upon to make more money available to the Minister of the Interior from the budget so that more young men who are interested in civil service can also receive corresponding jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23106	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Rest of the time of your club: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23128	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to point out that the civil service report is prompt and meaningful. I think that's important. It corresponds to what is presented under such a report, and it has also been reimbursed in time, because we now have May 1999 and discuss the 1998 report. That, I think, must be highlighted as positive. But what continues to make us sad is the fact that there is indeed a certain setback, that a significant number of civil servants are still unable to support their civil service on a regular basis. But we are the good hope that this will be better. We have talked about this in the Committee, and we have also noted in the Committee that the civil service figures have no significant influence or, in fact, no influence on the possibilities of national defence, since there are enough basic defence workers available. This should give cause for thought to the question of whether the twelve months are still necessary, but this may be better accommodated in another debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23161	The next item is the speech by the friend of the honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23182	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say clearly and clearly that, from the point of view of the EIA, civil servants are very important and that the EIA is clearly and clearly committed to civil service. Without questioning the importance of our federal army or the obligation to do so, it must be noted that civil servants are making an indispensable contribution to our society, especially in the social field. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Every day they provide their services, and that is, primarily their labour force, to the general public. Every year, we average an increase of about 2 to 3 percent in the number of civilian servants. In 1996, there were 6,330 civil servants, and in 1998 the number of civil servants rose to 8,900. There is also an upward trend in the recognised civil service facilities. At the beginning of 1997, the number of recognised civil service facilities was 717, and at the end of 1998 a total of 775 recognised civil service facilities had already been established. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to a major problem in this context: Currently, some 4,700 civilians are waiting for a civilian service. The Ministry of the Interior has already announced that about 7 200 people will be accommodated again this year in rescue services and other aid organisations. The fact is that the waiting period of a civil servant for a civil service place is not, as you, Mr. Federal Minister, claim, a maximum of one year, but that in reality, at least one year, if not up to two years, must be waited. Federal Minister! It must be assigned faster. The figures in Upper Austria also prove this. Upper Austria has stand 1. January 1999 1 753 recognised civil service sites. However, the Ministry of the Interior allocated only 1 361 civilians in the previous year. For this year about this number has been announced. I would therefore ask you to allocate more quickly, especially in this case. One clearly sees the need of civil servants in the Blue Light organizations, such as the Red Cross. 35 percent of all civil servants were assigned to these organizations in 1997 and 1998, 15 percent to hospitals, and about 18 percent were allocated to disability and old-age care. Civil servants are also indispensable in the farms, where there are, unfortunately, more and more accidents. These voluntary assistance services should in no way be threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23238	Mr Laber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23259	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer once again to the debate that my clubman Herbert Scheibner has already opened, and to the correctness of the fact that there really is no more regulation in the civil service sector, in so far as – see the comparison in the civil service report – the rate of increase of 38.10 per cent in 1993 has now been reduced, but we are already starting to expect an increase of 22.86 per cent in 1998. Federal Minister! You yourself have said in the Committee on the Interior that there is more willingness to go to civil service. There are also the corresponding press releases. I do not want to quote them because you know exactly what is contained in them. One question to be clarified here, however, is quite another: What is this civil service? – Civil service is military service replacement or military service – whatever it is called – and the question arises: Where is the principle of equality? A civil servant today has the opportunity to choose his own civil service place. If he's not free, he'll be on a waiting list. Civil service places which are free in other areas will not be re-occupied and cannot be occupied by other civil servants. In other words, there is an imbalance: in part, an overload, in part, an underload. The principle must apply: Civil service can only be a military service, and it is of all those who are obliged to be actually observed, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria. If I look at this civil service report, Mr Federal Minister, I asked you about this at the last committee meeting, only this table, which shows where civil servants are used, for example in Germany, then I have to ask myself whether we in Austria cannot use civil servants more rationally, whether they cannot work more rationally for our Republic than in Germany or in other countries. On the other hand, the Austrian basic defense minister in the military does not have the opportunity to choose where he is serving, but he is divided. The civil servant can divide that himself. It is therefore necessary to refer to this principle of equality again: If civil service is already to be performed, he can only be a military replacement. But then equality must apply to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23305	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Mrs Haidlmayr, your club’s remaining speaking time is 7 minutes. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: No, 12 minutes! I've got seven minutes!]] I was wrong. Excuse me! Voluntary speaking time: Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23335	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to a few comments from previous speakers, first of all to the statements by Mr Scheibner, who claimed that civil servants had advantages over basic defence servants. Mr Scheibner, I do not know how intensely you have dealt with people doing civil service before. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very!]] If you believe that people whose task is to care for the severely disabled, old and sick, of people who have to be picked up and taken to the hospital in the event of accidents, et cetera, have an advantage over those who are in the barracks, then, I must say, you have unfortunately not dealt with civil service much too much. [[Abg. Scheibner: But they can't do that, Mrs. Colleague! You know that! They are only used for relief!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: These are all wrong stories!]] I invite you to go with me once to an old home, to a seriously disabled home or to a hospital, because then you would have your flutes, to think that civilian servants are privileged, very quickly dismantled! [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you mean "flausen"?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: "Flausen"?]] One more thing, Mr Scheibner: They also said that they are now in Galtür Civil servants would need because the Tyroleans currently have their basic military servants on assistance in the Burgenland. I believe that Mr Fassleven should be able – the disaster in Galtür did not happen only yesterday, but already months ago – to coordinate the whole thing so that, at this time, the Tyrolean soldiers could stay in Tyrol, perhaps made assistance from another federal state, and the Tyroleans may not be able to do so until later. [[Abg. Scheibner: If he doesn't have people, because everyone goes to civil service, he can't coordinate anything!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They do it all the time!]] The consequences of this Mr Fassl evening is not able to carry out proper coordination, can not be carried out on the back of civilian servants. [[Abg. Scheibner: Is this a bad thing to help in this disaster? Is this a bad thing a civil servant does?]] A civilian can't be removed from the hospital, he can't be removed from the old house or rescue. 'Cause I'm wondering, Who, then, is doing the work of the civil servant in these institutions? The idea that all civil servants can choose their own civil service places is based more on an illusion. This is also not quite true, Mr Scheibner, but civil servants have the opportunity to indicate three civil services which they would give priority to, in the hope that they will then receive one of these three posts. They're not entitled to it. [[Abg. Scheibner: I did not say that at all, Mrs Colleague! But after Tyrol he is not moved as a Vienna!]] Another point, Mr Scheibner: They have said that civil servants should also do a useful job. I therefore ask you whether working in the rescue sector, in the disabled, in the healthcare sector and in the cetera sector is not a useful activity for you! [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't know who you were listening to! I didn't say all that!]] [[Abg. Swimmling: He hasn't talked that long!]] If not, I can only tell you: You would look nice if you suddenly had no more in the event of a traffic accident that would take you to the hospital – that is, a useful activity. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Swimmling: But if you had been talking for so long, you would have said it!]] I would suggest that you be a little more careful, because you know that the countries in particular are very happy to have enough civilian servants. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you bring me to good ideas!]] Your head of state in Carinthia will also be very happy that he has enough civilians in his federal state, for if he had not been able to bring up these civilians, the country would have to put up a few million schillings in order to obtain the services of civil servants by other workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Kiss! I do not think that you have misread the Civil Service Report. I think you have already read it properly and you have consciously brought it to the media that 103,000 civilians are waiting for an assignment place. If that were true, Mr Kiss, that would be a 15-year standback. That this cannot be serious, you should know. I think you just wanted to show once again that you don't really like civilians so much, even if you have sometimes wanted to give the impression that they are pleasant to you. Now to the Civil Service Report. Mr Minister, the Civil Service Report is – this is undisputed – very detailed and comprehensive. He is pleased to note that access to civil service is increasing. We are very happy about this because disabled institutions are dependent on civil servants and they can really do their job properly. One area that has yet to be changed is the imbalance in civil service, but not in the direction addressed by Mr Laiber, but in order to achieve the same level of civil service and civil service over time. It cannot be that the ground military service lasts eight months and civil service lasts twelve months. The compensation for civil servants and civil servants must also be equal, because in the case of flat-rate compensations received by civil servants and civil servants, it is currently the case that civil servants are getting less by 1 000 s. The question of housing aid must also be settled at last, because it cannot be said that a civil servant living in a housing community will no longer receive housing costs, just because he has no own toilet and no own kitchen in his housing community. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the same for the basic defense minister!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's the same thing with the ground defense minister!]] If a civil servant or civil servant is married, he usually has no own kitchen and no own toilet in the family association, but then he receives his housing allowance. The current regulation cannot therefore make sense. One area, Mr Minister, which I have mentioned many times, is the allocation dates. I would suggest because it would bring everyone something instead of three dates to set four allocation dates a year, namely in January, April, July and October. With four allocation dates, it would be better for the institutions because the overlaps would be shorter, and that can only be in the interests of all. I wish, not only for myself as a person, but also for all the institutions dependent on civil servants, that it is still possible for enough civilian servants to come into these institutions. They are needed there, they are urgently needed. If we didn't have them, the social network would coincide. That must be known to all of us. Minister! I would also ask you to eliminate the disparity between the individual institutions in the costs they have to pay for civil servants. It cannot be the case that the Blue Light organizations – and this only since this year – have to pay approximately 1 300 S per month and civil servants, while on the other hand, disabled institutions and other institutions pay 4 500 S or 5 000 S for the civil servant. I think that there should be an approximation in this case: Each institution should pay a fixed amount per civil servant, and it must be the same throughout Austria. These are my demands. I have tabled these requests today, or they are already pending. I would like these essential points to be discussed during the next negotiations and perhaps some of them can be decided here in this Parliament before the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23582	Mr Gaál has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23603	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Civil Service Report for the years 1997 and 1998 confirms once again that it is possible to take into account the concerns of those young people who are in great need of conscience and who reject him in the performance of military service. It also shows, however, that it takes account of the needs of military defence and that military service itself is not too short. Federal Minister Fassleven confirms to us again and again – and we believe it is – that the annual required number of basic defence servants is ensured. I therefore see no threat to military national defence by the Civil Service Institution. We confess to the establishment of civil service as well as to the Austrian federal army. With the year 1997 – which has already been said today – the examination of conscience has disappeared. This is a regulation that corresponds to a modern, open and liberal society which, despite many negative forecasts, has proved to be effective in practice. We were concerned in 1997 with a modern, social-politically meaningful and, above all, permanent reform of civil service, ladies and gentlemen, and with this law, an equivalent treatment of civil and present services was generally achieved. First of all, of course, is the fundamental commitment to the defence of the military state. I agree with all those who say that civil service must be the exception from the rule of military service. Therefore, civil service is not an alternative service but a replacement service. [[Abg. Scheibner: Shouldn't be an alternative service!]] For a credible and reasonable degree of defence, a corresponding military power potential is needed. All of this is only ensured within the framework of the general obligation of military service and in the balanced relationship between present and civil servants that has now been found. Civil service areas have been expanded. There are more recognized facilities, and this also means additional civil service places. In this way, it will be possible for anyone who is notified and recognised for civil service to be used within a reasonable period of time for the performance of civil service. It has already been thanked for drawing up this comprehensive and meaningful report. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say that 32 civil servants were also employed at the Red Cross, the Landfire Association and the State Warning Centre in Galtür, as part of the disaster deployment of the Austrian Federal Army in Galtür. To do this, we must thank these dedicated civilians as well as the soldiers employed. The report submitted will be approved by us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23639	Mr Grossruck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23660	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Haidlmayr! That the Greens with the military don't have much on the hat, you prove that you document it, and that's your good right. But if, on the basis of Mr Scheibner's proposal, you are deduced here and the Minister of Defense, that civil servants should also be used in the use of disasters, you are now blaming Galtür, for example, that he is not prepared to cooperate, that he should be responsible for chaos, and that he could not dispossess it, then this accusation is very much on the hair, Mrs Haidlmayr, and only emphasizes your basic attitude against the German army and all that has to do with the military. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I mean, everyone has seen how exemplary the federal army was in Galtür. Under the supervision and command of the Federal Army, all operations were coordinated. So everything has worked out there, and in this case you can't talk about misevaluation or wrong use. – This only briefly to your remarks. Federal Minister! We have a comprehensive civil service report on the years 1997 and 1998. I would also like to clarify or emphasize: It has also been silently criticised in the Committee that the German army is not sufficiently informed by the Ministry of Defence of those who have taken their positions. I should like to say that almost two thirds of the content of this brochure is related to civil service information and that the Federal Minister has informed us in an instruction as to how to be informed. After a case has occurred that a military officer has said that he has not been properly informed, Federal Minister Fassleven has made it necessary for all persons with RSb letters – that is, letters that have been duly delivered – to receive the necessary information on the Civil Service Law Novelle. So that is certain, and I believe that certain accusations would be wrong here. I can add that the civil service report gives a comprehensive overview of civil service and that we will, of course, agree with it. Federal Minister! Two things I'm allowed to say. I have spoken to representatives of the Red Cross; on the side of the Red Cross, it is assembled that mostly too few civilians are assigned. This problem is clear to us. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] It is also a problem, Mr Federal Minister, that the rejection of unfit civil servants – which may also happen that some are simply not suitable – is almost impossible, since there is no replacement from the same turnus. If we discuss the civil service report as it is written on the paper, we should also consider ways of improving it. I would ask and ask you, including these proposals, that there be more flexibility in the use and that the intentions of the Red Cross be better respected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23712	President. — The debate is closed. Schlögl. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23734	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this civil service report – as it is presented by my ministry every second year – is very important and very good. I would like to take this opportunity because no one has done it by the speakers, with the officials of the Ministry of the Interior very much for the... Sorry, colleague Schwemmlein, yes! [[Contradiction of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I would therefore like to thank, together with the Members who have already done so, for the fact that the officials have presented the 1997 and 1998 civilian service reports within a very short time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Klubobmann Scheibner warned that the number of civilian servants was rising. For me as Minister of the Interior, this is actually a positive sign because I am responsible for the fact that 775 associations and institutions in Austria have the opportunity to receive as many civilian servants as possible. That's why I don't have a big problem with that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is not the task!]] I am of course aware that the Minister of Defence must be vigilant so that he... [[Abg. Scheibner: We have a military duty and not a civil service!]] I am aware that the Minister of Defence must be vigilant, but of course there must also be reasons, ladies and gentlemen, if someone is very consciously engaged in a twelve-month service and has an eight-month service to the Federal Army. However, I believe that, in all the facts that are justified, we must also be aware that the dramatic increase in the number of civil service applications is not so great, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Because in 1995 we had 35,870 suitable military officers. Of them, 5,986 have filed a civil service request, which is... [[Abg. Scheibner: 30,000 basic defense servants should we have!]] That's 21 percent. In 1998 it was 38 951, and of them 9 185 submitted an application. That's 22.8 percent, so the increase is slightly more than one percent, and the 30 000 you require are almost reached. That means that I do not think we should see these figures all too dramatic. [[Abg. Scheibner: 25 000 are not 30 000!]] Please? [[Abg. Scheibner: How many, did you say, are defensive?]] 38 951, and 9 185 applications for civil service have been submitted. In my opinion, 8 904 applications were accepted, so that in my opinion, 30 047 people remain. That means that the need is somehow covered. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then you still have to subtract 10 percent that go away early!]] But I am aware that the number of civilian servants increases significantly after the turn of the years 1993 to 1995. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I would like to say that the accusation of the long waiting period is no longer true to the extent that it has been claimed by my colleague friend. The main reason is that the waiting period is no longer than a maximum of one year. I can prove this to you by means of concrete figures. Since civil service, ladies and gentlemen, a total of 103 665 people have applied for civil service. Of these, 79,550 had already completed their civil service by the end of 1998. It remains a remainder of 24,000 people. Of these, 9 300 have a long-term delay, 11 900 are allocated in this year or next year, and only 2,787 cannot be allocated at the moment, especially because of the lack of a corresponding number of documents, such as standing documents or confirmations that they are not available abroad or temporarily impossible. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do they all have a delay?]] That means, essentially, we have no problem with the allocation. As we have planned for next year to increase the number of allocations from 7 300 to at least 8 000 to 8 500, I assume that the number of people waiting will be even lower and that the duration of the waiting period will be even shorter than one year. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to me to say that civil servants are, of course, in operation in the event of disasters. It was in Galtür, for example, that 32 civilians were serving in the State Warning Centre of the State of Tyrol, within the framework of the State Fire Department and within the Red Cross. But you must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that a civil servant can only work in the civil service through a particular association or institution. That is why this can only happen via the fire brigade, the Red Cross, or a similar organization. I cannot order a company of my own that employs civil servants in any repair work or other cleaning work. It didn't make sense to me either. Fortunately, there are very few disasters in Austria to the extent that it has, for example, been the case in Galtür. In other words, a civil servant can only be used in the event of a disaster if he works in a corresponding organization. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: We are also happy about it!]] [[Further calls.]] I would like to be in Parliament and I would also like to show the honourable Member, Mr Nürnberger. Mrs Haidlmayr! Finally, I would also like to point out that I will endeavour to establish a fourth assignment date for civil servants in 2000 or at the latest in 2001. I believe that this is important only because we are currently having major problems in the month of October. In the next few weeks and months, I will certainly not accept the debate that we are harmonizing the contributions to be paid by the various associations. I am already satisfied with the debate which I still have to hold with the blue light organizations, which have been in recent years, namely since 1. January 1999, to pay almost 1 300 S. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They pay too much, the charitative clubs!]] This has led to a great deal of indignation and displeasure among many blue light organisations and, of course, has also affected the budget of these organisations, which are mainly charitable. I do not think it would be useful now to create a new and additional burden. But I'm going to give you that in principle. Of course, all organisations should be treated equally. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen and honourable Member Nürnberger! In this sense, I would like to thank you for the great approval you will give to the civil service report presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23906	Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for your comments. No one is reporting on this. The rapporteur's conclusion is that there is no wish. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-190. If you take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. 39. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1573 of the Supplements): Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents (1827 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23958	We'll get to 39. Agenda item. I would like to point out that we have a short list of speakers and will soon be voting on a constitutional provision. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speech is by Mr Kiermaier. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23992	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll take a short look. Neighborhood aid is a virtue that is as old as humanity itself. It is therefore a good thing among States with a common border to live up to this tradition. Since such operations are in principle voluntary organizations such as fire brigade, Red Cross, Samaritan League and the like, it should also be assumed that the country in distress is not invoiced for these operations and assistance. However, it must be assumed that this does not happen in the opposite case. We would place great importance on this if it were to come to such a situation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Neighbourhood aid is also becoming increasingly important as European integration is increasing. In a Europe of the regions, for example, a river forming the border between two states must not be an obstacle to helping one another and helping one another. At the latest since the fall of the Iron Curtain, this attitude must be a matter of course. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately – this is a little sad with this philosophy of good neighborhood – we have had to discuss Temelin today. Unfortunately, God is a shadow that has fallen upon this neighborhood relationship. At the end of my brief remarks, I should like to say one thing: It can't be that our neighbor thinks that this is his internal matter, because we carry the risk at least as much as he does. We are therefore very likely to be involved if such risks are brought directly in front of our doorstep. In this sense, we call on our neighbors to consider this too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24033	Furthermore, Mr Deputies is Reported on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24054	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, the previous speaker said what to say. I would add that today's decision on the Government's draft directive in 1573 only enshrines the practice, that is, what has already been carried out, in fact. Austria has been able to conclude disaster relief agreements with all neighbouring countries and thus have good experience. If the Czech Republic is now in the ranks, it is important that it be said, in particular, that it is not likely that this Civil Protection Convention would be the most important thing if the power plant we have been discussing today would be a problem for us. For that would not be in the sense of this agreement. It is urgent to point this out. Federal Minister! In this decision, from the above-mentioned point of view, the question would also be clarified – and you have made this commitment in the Committee – which will happen with the crossings of Schöneben, Aigen, Dierendorf and Guglwald. I would ask you, Minister of State, to give us the written information, as it was promised in the Committee on Budgets, in fact. All in all, we agree to this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24090	Furthermore, Mrs Dr. Höbinger teachers. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to stop you for long, and I don't want to talk longer than the 2 minutes I've been given, but I'd like to say something about it. We agreed to this Treaty in committee, but with a certain abdominal pain, because Temelin was standing in the room. It has not proved to be wrong that we had an unpleasant feeling. Last week – as we have already discussed in detail today – it became sad certainty: Temelin is being built. But I don't need to say anything about that now. President. — The debate is closed. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl talks to the government bank. Parnigoni.]] I'm sorry to bother you. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Sorry!]] Don't worry, he's listening to me. You know, I'm always on your side. But I, because I am missing for three years in this House, have, of course, looked at a bit of what has been said about the Treaties with the Slovak Republic and Slovenia. I have read a word from you that I actually did not like, namely that this is a routine contract. I like Routine when it comes to the wall of the contract. The content of these contracts can probably be routine with countries such as Germany, which use nuclear power, but with otherwise equipped nuclear power plants. It can be so with Switzerland, it is certainly so with Liechtenstein, and it will also be so with Italy. [[Abg. Arbitrators: They don't have so many!]] But with the countries that also use the nuclear power, in this poor version, which will not be improved by a Westinghouse company – because that is, as I read in the press, just as Mercedes makes a clean-up on a trabant, there is nothing right about it – I think it should be more cautious. You will, since it is a routine contract – I hope that will never happen – and you will agree to this agreement from our side. It would have been indifferent anyway, because we would anyway be in the minority if we had not agreed – as it is in democracy! But... [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is an interesting political position!]] Well, it is, Mr Deputies – I do not know your name now; I have not noticed everyone, but enough. However, I would like to ask the Federal Government to do more in the future to bring these countries to the fore. We all do not want to have a GAU, nor do we want it to come to a GAU in these countries. We do not want such contracts to come into effect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that is a legitimate concern, and I ask you to use it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24186	Mr Achs has been reported on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24207	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For a small country like Austria, it is necessary to cooperate with its neighbouring countries in the field of disaster aid. So far, cooperation between Austria and the Czech Republic has not been regulated. The Treaty now establishes a legal framework to help each other as quickly as possible and unbureaucratically. For the Contracting Countries of Austria and the Czech Republic, the decision to complete the Temelin nuclear power plant in Prague gives a special priority to disaster aid. Nevertheless, and that is why it is important to intensify cooperation. Because this Treaty also regulates permanent and close cooperation in order to prevent possible disasters. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be done by the Austrian side, but also by the European Union in order to prevent disasters in the future. The Temelin nuclear power plant must therefore not go into operation. Ladies and gentlemen! If we succeed, we have made a great contribution to a secure Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24240	Mr Puttinger has also been mentioned on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24262	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With this Treaty, with this international framework, I believe that an important step has been taken to bring the regulations that have already been mentioned into the right track. I am thinking here of the definition of the authorities, the use of aircraft, the travel documents or many other things which, I believe, are clearly regulated. The most important thing for me, however, is that there is a willingness for the respective organization to participate or not to participate in such a thing. That's their decision, that's the individual club, whether it's the Red Cross, the Fire Department, or anything else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am so glad about this agreement, but I see in this Treaty only a certain achievement in Austrian-Czech relations. Unfortunately, there is one point – it has already been mentioned in the foreign policy debate today – which is very problematic: The Beneš decrees, which were decided in 1945 and 1946, are a point which we will also have to deal with in the future. If the Czech Republic is trying to enter the European Union, we have to take this into account. This Treaty can only be an intermediate provision to the fact that the Czechs too have responded to all these things. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If today the Czech Republic is not ready to withdraw what it has concluded in 1945 and 1946 and what all lawyers – whether German, Austrian or Hungarian – consider to be undemocratic and illegal in international law, I believe we must insist on further negotiations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this must not be the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A small point: As has been shown in recent months, a certain rethinking has apparently taken place in the Czech Republic. The abolition of these acts of injustice should in any case be included. If the Czech Republic wants to participate in a united Europe, it will have to comply with the European rule of law and thus accept the European human rights system. This should also be said clearly and clearly here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree to this cooperation between the Czechs and Austria – this first building block that has been formed here – a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24314	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion is that there is no wish. That is what we are going to vote for, and I would ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty in 1573 of the Supplements, whose Article 3 para. 1 and Article 8(1) 1 and 2 are constitutional to grant the approval. With regard to the constitutional amendments just mentioned, I note the presence of the presence quo required by the Constitution. In the event that you wish to grant approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This sign takes place unilaterally. The approval is thus granted. In fact, it is unnecessary to note that the two-thirds majority is also present. 40. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1014/A by Mr Anton Leikam, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Staff Regulations (PStG), on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisits, Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning the renewal of the Staff Regulations; and on the petition (PET-54) concerning "The right of born children to their own name", presented by the honourable Member Mag. Terezija Stoisits and Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt (1828 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24381	We'll get to 40 now. Agenda item. There is no reporting. We are entering the debate. I do not yet see who has spoken, but I do not accept the written statement that this is Mr Leikam. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24412	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, out of respect for the feelings of parents concerned, the National Council will decide to adopt a novel to the Staff Regulations, a novel for which an amendment has been signed in the Committee by all parties represented in the National Council and which will only be of great importance to very few people. With this novel, we want to help those affected parents who are looking forward to the birth of a child and then have been subjected to severe mental stress due to the birth of a child. Birth and death certificate are often the only thing that this parent remains of her child. So far, it has been true that for stillborn children, there was only one extract from the death book. First name, family name and religious belonging were registered on this extract with a small X. On the basis of this novel, children who are still born in the future will be given a name at the request of the parents – I expressly stress: only at the request of the parents – and there will be a widespread equal treatment with living born children. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the Committee, we all agreed that we are taking a significant step forward with this novel for parental mourning.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24448	Mr Platter is also speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24469	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I very much agree with the present amendment to the Person Status Act, because I understand it and because it is understandable that a name should be possible in the future at the request of the parents at the time of birth. From personal experience and distress I know how much it hurts to lose a child. This is undoubtedly the case with stillbirths. If there has been a dead birth, then the way leads to the office, and the standing officer has only the opportunity to make an extract from the death book. It contains in the headings "First Name" and "Family Name", but also "Religion Membership" each contains an X. For this the parents have no understanding at all. I talked to my officials on this matter. He told me that he is very happy about the intention of the legislator to allow a change if there is a corresponding desire of the parents. To my question, to what extent the administrative burden will increase, he told me that this was to be neglected. Therefore, a yes to this change of law and a thanks to those Members who have taken this legislative initiative!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24506	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is also speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The remaining speaking time of the club is 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24527	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period, I am not going to make use of my remaining speaking time, which I owe to the Minister's speech. My speech should only strengthen our vote. I would like to point out that we are going to accept this request, because we have the greatest understanding of the fact that parents who suffer from the terrible fate of bringing a child to death want to confirm that this child has a name and thus the relationship is strengthened. As we have said, we agree, and we are pleased to be able to help this group of people to cope better with their suffering.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24560	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24582	Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of those parents – it was mothers and fathers – who made us aware of this problem by petitioning the National Council, I would like to thank those who have taken this initiative. It is about a year since we were still disappointed by the answers given by the Federal Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for this matter of law, but also by those who came from the Minister of Justice. At that time, one had no understanding of such a change in law. The change of consciousness has led to a change in the legal situation of this matter in Germany – something that prevented an Austrian change as long as it was not there. Mr Platter and Mr President-in-Office of the Committee on the Interior have already said that this is a problem, that thanks to God not too many people are concerned. There are only between 350 and 400 dead births in Austria. [[Call at the ÖVP: What does "only" mean?]] What is a dead birth is precisely regulated by the law of midwives. Of the parents of these 400 babies, I estimate – I have had a lot to do with self-help groups – maybe 10 percent will use this legal option. This change of law is of vital importance, in particular, for the grief of the parents concerned, and it is intended to enable them to process the fate that has happened to them, and to find one of their convictions after worthy farewell to their child, who is their child, who has a name and who usually had the name already, long before it was born. I would also like to thank Mrs Ministerial Councillor, who has implemented an additional idea which was not at all imaginable for non-legislatives, namely the idea of issuing a neutral document. As a result, these changes can be even more perfect than the initiators of the petition have presented themselves, and it is above all possible that this regulation can be applied as early as 1. ==References== Thanks a lot! It is clear that if citizens are involved in a matter of concern, the National Council is quite open to complying with it. I was surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24614	Mrs Parfuss has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you some additional information: There are estimates that every fourth pregnancy the child dies during pregnancy. This means that every pregnant woman in her life is confronted with it, and therefore it cannot be spoken of by a small group of those concerned or by a marginal theme, but it is not talked about. Many women and men are disappointed by the lack of recognition of the importance of loss and their sadness by the doctor and the social environment. Therefore, their own feelings and sorrows seem questionable to them. But grief is simply a painful but necessary struggle to cope with the loss. However, if this mourning is not done, or if it is suppressed – including statements from outsiders – it is not supposed to be so difficult for the woman concerned to become pregnant and so on anyway – a huge burden arises for those concerned, including for subsequent pregnancies. These are then marked by uncertainty and fear. That is why I am twice pleased with the broad approval of this change of law as the first step towards the detachment of this subject. The grieving parents are signalled by the documentary naming of the dead child that society recognizes their grief as a deep and necessary work to deal with the birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24672	It is reported as the next Minister of State Mag. Schlögl. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24693	Ladies and gentlemen! I support all these initiatives, and I believe they are very important. I would like to say here, at least for the minutes – if not for you, Mrs Stoisits – that the Ministry of the Interior did not give a negative answer to the parliamentary question in question, but very probably promised an examination of this legislative matter. Today's joint will-building in Parliament has been achieved, among other things, because of this parliamentary request and the previous will-building here in the House, but also because of the corresponding work in the Ministry of the Interior. This means that the Ministry of the Interior has also contributed to this important decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24727	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24751	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law is not a spectacular law, but it serves those mothers or parents who have prepared for a child for months and given the child a name. At the time of birth, it has so far been so that this child could only be entered in the death book. Now this child can be given a name. It is simply to help parents to cope better with this severe fate. I am particularly concerned that the voluntaryity and not the obligation are justified and that the concerns of the Ministry of Justice about the possibility of inheritance rights have been taken into account accordingly. That's not the case. The People's Party is of course a concern to accept this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24787	Finally, Mr. Dr. Kier is speaking. Rest of the time of your club: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24809	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! After my club president brought in the petition in question and together with Mr Stoisits, he presented the original request, which was then thanks to God for a five-party request, I would like to expressly say from this pult that we do not want to see what has been drawn up in committee as an improvement, and that we are pleased to be able to decide by unanimity to thank God. It is, as my previous speaker said, perhaps not a spectacular law, but it is a very important law for the people, which, in fact, will not involve any serious costs. We have thus fulfilled many people’s heart’s desire, and that alone is already beautiful.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24839	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is thus closed. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask you to take the place for this purpose. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1828 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is one-bright the case. That is why the request has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft agreement at third reading, I would also ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This too is done in a single light. I notice: The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24891	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on Amendment 1047/A (E) by Mr Hans Helmut Moser and Mr Comrades on the empirical study on the social situation and working conditions within the Austrian executive. In June 1999, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24922	We shall also proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Dr Kier, Mr Mag. Stoisits and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24990	A short debate was requested. We are now going into this debate. I would draw attention to the appropriate time limits: 10 minutes for the founder, otherwise 5 minutes. Members of the Federal Government and, in speaking, state secretaries should not speak for more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Volker Kier. Time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25020	Mr President. High house! Mr Nürnberger! Perhaps I can convince you that I will make this statement very brief. We had already had the opportunity to discuss the backgrounds during the day, as well as this request for an investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We already want to know exactly that!]] I therefore do not want to re-explain this redundancies in a redundancie. There must be no one in this House who does not know what this is about. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have to explain what it is about you!]] It is clear to everyone – and I hope so – that there should actually be an investigation into the political responsibilities, the proportionality of resources, the rule of law-of-law practices and so on. I really don't want to repeat this now. If you don't know that yet, you wouldn't find my understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What are you talking about?]] I assume that you will not base your voting on the matter, but on coalition discipline. I'm sorry. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We don't have a coalition!]] I mean, If an administration, a federal government, by means of its majority in Parliament, is opposed to an objective investigation, then this is a pity, because if nothing negative can come to light, there is no need to fear such an investigation. However, if you fear them, you have to prevent them by the majority. You will again demonstrate today that you do not understand the need for genuine parliamentary opposition control. Everything else has been said several times today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25098	Mrs Parfuss has also been mentioned. From now on, the time limit is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25120	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Deputies Kier! The deplorable case of Omofuma is a case for the prosecutor or for the judiciary! The judge from Korneuburg is a competent, reliable person, and I am confident that this matter will be examined in detail and that the alleged guilty conduct of the officials will be examined and determined and, of course, the consequences of it will also be taken into account. [[Abg. Smolle: The judge in Korneuburg is not responsible for politics, Mrs Colleague!]] What the role of Federal Minister Schlögl concerns: The Federal Minister has demonstrated extreme transparency and also political sense by withdrawing the accused officials from their work, although the Commission has decided otherwise. He has thus shown competence for action, and no one is more interested in the information than the Minister of State. As far as the accusation of Mr Schenk is concerned, the Federal Minister has today made a very clear statement on this matter. At the time, his colleague, Mrs Brenner, has drawn up a protocol that does not mention the use of oral tapes, and she bears witness to this. Ladies and gentlemen! A few months before the National Council election, this sad incident would be converted into the electoral instrument. The case is simply too serious and too tragic to use it politically. We therefore reject, of course, the request for a committee of inquiry to be set up.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25155	Mr Krüger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Krüger for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25177	Mr President. High house! We too reject the request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, because this committee of inquiry is exclusively party-politically motivated by you, because you want to abuse the tragic fate of Mr Omofuma to beat political capital out of it, and ultimately because it is not a matter of establishing political responsibility at all for you, but of taking a political stand against you, Mr Kier! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Now!]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Smolle: You want an unloving politician!]] Finally, they want to achieve a change in deportation practice. They want Austria to remain a country of immigration, and you want that, if someone opposes a deportation, this factic behaviour leads to a stop to the deportation. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Read the application! Read!]] However, the rule of law must not capitulate before that. That's not a question at all. Ladies and gentlemen! A short while ago, another idea to show why we are opposed to the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry: The political responsibility was assumed by Mr. Schlögl. He has issued a catalogue of measures, he has set up a Human Rights Advisory Board, and he has, for me - and I believe for all here - demonstrated that he has not known anything about this kind of sticking of the mouth in the deportation. Just as credible – Mr Kier, you may well be careful now! – has explained to one of the former ministers that they have known about it and have done nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: (Keeping the application in height) Read! It's in there!]] [[Abg. Smolle: Read the application!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it is really serious to you on this matter, then take the former Federal Minister to a visit and let Minister Schlögl, who has put faith in it, know nothing about it, except Obligo.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25296	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25317	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As soon as possible to the liberals and their argument as to why they reject this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is not an argument!]] After the truly tragic suicide of Gerhard Praschak, an Austrian banker, the liberals in the National Council were of the opinion that the subject of an investigation committee should be the subject. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the tip of an iceberg!]] The death of a Nigerian national in the custody of Austrian police officers does not seem to be worth demanding this control instrument. We are not yet in the process of determining whether a majority will be in favour. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These comparisons are crazy!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: These are all "net" comparisons that bring you there! Very tasteful!]] What I think is very interesting is the trust of Mrs Parfuss in Austrian justice. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Reclining is what you're doing!]] It honors her that she has this confidence, but she only confuses apples with pears. The criminal responsibility is something that lies in the hands of the judicial system, and the criminal prosecution is also something that I see well - and still have a faith in the Austrian rule of law - there too. But something else is political responsibility, and the political responsibility is to clarify a parliamentary committee of inquiry. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whether you are giving more faith to human rights activists' memory protocols or to the same memory protocols of ministers' staff and how you value such documents, this will remain yours. There are, however, documents that have been sent to the Austrian Federal Government and also to the National Council, which are not about who believes anymore, and in which it has never been questioned whether what is in it is correct or incorrect: This is the report of the Council of Europe's anti-torture committee. Let me just bring three quotations so that you don't believe it's a question of faith. It is a question of facts that have been shown! It is therefore equally true that there has been a disregard for the recommendations and that there has been just as manifest abuse or incorrect behaviour of Austrian officials, and there is also a fact that there is something like a head of authority and a chief chief, and that is when it comes to the interior area, the Minister of the Interior. The fact that the CPT has informed you, us and the Minister that there have been numerous complaints about police abuses, and at the same time it has been found that there have been virtually no complaints about the Gendarmerie, which I would only like to make clear to you that this is not a committee that draws up its report on behalf of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, but rather on the basis of objective perceptions – and that it was recommended to the Austrian authorities four years ago – and everyone was able to read it, and the officials of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior are aware of reading – is able to use a body composed of independent persons which is empowered to carry out general in-depth investigations into the methods applied by police officers of the Vienna Security Office in the arrest and consultation of suspects, speaks a very clear language. The fact that the CPT refers to the Austrian authorities for an opinion on the above-mentioned information – here are tapes on the face and on the arms, beatings on the deportation of foreign nationals who have been notified to the Committee – and the transmission of a copy of all directions and directives adopted on the authorised means of the use of force in the case of deportation or deportation procedures, ladies and gentlemen, is not a question of faith. It has nothing to do with the dear God. This has to do with misbehaviors of Austrian politicians and misbehaviors of Austrian officials. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Salzl and Dr. Ofner.]] We are elected to the National Council to what...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25409	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25424	... there is a constitutional mandate to control the administration, to comply with it. A committee of inquiry is the only appropriate means.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25454	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr Kier, Mr Mag. Stoisits and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions: Request according to § 32e para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25494	I now announce that a quarter of the members of the National Council wish me to give the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors an audit mandate concerning the review of labour market-related issues within the framework of the Federal Government, for example, the conduct of the AMS, the resolution of the apprenticeship offensive, the management of EU funding for employment. As the legal requirements are met, this examination procedure must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-05-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25518	I would also like to point out that in today's sitting, self-employed applications 1083/A (E) to 1097/A (E) were tabled. Questions 6268/J to 6303/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 1.29 p.m., which is at the end of this meeting. This meeting is closed.
