ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e799	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you all to the heart. Let's start the XXI. The legislative period of the Austrian National Council, and we want to do so with the Austrian Federal Anthem. I ask you to rise from the seats.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e830	I welcome all the members of the House – both those who have been re-elected and those who have been elected to the National Council and are therefore taking part in a meeting for the first time today – to the heart. With respect, I welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who honours us to attend this meeting. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[President Dr. Thomas Klestil rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] I should also like to welcome all the other guests of our Constituent Meeting and extend this greeting to those fellow citizens who follow this meeting through television. Meeting of the regular meeting 1999/2000
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e866	I declare that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 19. In accordance with Article 27(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 27(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website legislative period and in accordance with Article 28(1). 1 B-VG also convened at its regular meeting in 1999/2000. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. According to § 3 para. It is up to the President of the former National Council to open the meeting and hold the Presidency until the President is elected. According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, until the final election of the scribes, I have to appoint four members of the House for the provisional provision of this function, and after consulting the President-in-Office, Mr Jakob Auer, Mrs Edith Haller, Mr Mag. Werner Koglerand Mrs Annemarie Reitsamerto writers until the definitive appointment of these functions. No one is reported as ill or prevented for today's session. 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e927	We go into the agenda and arrive at the 1st. Point: It is the fishing of Members. The newly appointed writer, Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer, will read the formula for fishing; then the Members will be asked for a name by Mrs Reitsamer – she will then be the Member Auer are replaced – the Angelobung have to do with the words "I vow". I can now ask the author, Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer, to carry out this task, i.e. to read the formula for fishing and then start calling for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e957	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." On behalf of the author Reitsamer or the author Auer, the following Members shall make the fishing observation with the words: "I vow." Antoni Dieter, Dr. Auer Jakob; Aumayr Anna Elisabeth; Bartenstein Martin, Dr.; Bauer Gerhard, Ing.Use custom fonts; Bauer Rosemarie; Bauer Sophie; Baumgartner-Gabitzer Ulrike, Dr.; Binder Gabriele; Böhacker Hermann; Bösch Reinhard Eugen, Dr.; Breitenfeld-Papházy Sylvia, Dr.; Brinek Gertrude, Dr.; Brix Otmar; Brosz Dieter; Bruckmann Gerhart, Dr.; Bures Doris; Cap Josef, Dr.; Dietachmayr Helmut; Dobnigg Karl; Dolinschek Sigisbert; Donabauer Karl; Eder Kurt; Edler Joseph; Edlinger Rudolf; Egghart Robert; A Caspar, Dr.; Ellmauer Matthias; Fallent Gerhard, Ing.Use custom fonts; Fassleven Werner, Dr.; Faul Christian; Fekter Maria Theresia, Mag. Dr.; Ferrero-Waldner Benita Maria, Dr.; Feurstein Gottfried, Dr.; Fink Ernst; Fellinger Reinhard, Mag.Use custom fonts; Fischer Heinz, Dr.; Fischl Harald; Friend Karl; Frieser Cordula, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gaál Anton; Gahr Hermann; Gartlehner Kurt, Ing.Use custom fonts; Gaßner Kurt, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gatterer Edeltraud; Gaugg Reinhart; Gehrer Elisabeth; Glavish Eva, Mag. Dr.; Grabner Arnold; Gradwelt Heinz; Count Herbert Ludwig, Ing.; Graf Martin, Dr.; Grollitsch Udo, Mag. Dr.; Grossruck Wolfgang; Green Forest Kurt, Dr. Gusenbauer Alfred, Dr.; Hagenhofer Marianne; Haidlmayr Theresia; Haigermoser Helmut; Haller Edith; Hartinger Beate, Mag.Use custom fonts; Chief Herbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Heindl Kurt, Dr. Heinisch-Hosek Gabriele; Heinzl Anton; Hofmann Maximilian, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Hornegger Franz; Hornek Erwin; Hostaic Eleonora; Huber Anna; Jäger Inge; Jarolim Johannes, Dr.; Young Wolfgang; Kaipel Erwin, Ing.Use custom fonts; Kampichler Franz; Doppelmüller Peter, Dipl.-Ing. Dr.; Khol Andreas, Dr. Kiermaier Günter; Kiss Paul; Climate Viktor, Mag.Use custom fonts; Knerzl Anton; Kogler Werner, Mag.Use custom fonts; Head Karlheinz; Kößl Günter; Kostelka Peter, Dr. Herbs Günther, Dr.; Krüger Michael, Dr.; Kukacka Helmut, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sad Werner, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Kuntzl Andrea, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kurzbauer Johann; Kurzmann Gerhard, Dr.; Lacner Manfred; Leikam Anton; Leiner Günther, Dr.; Lexer Reinhold; Lichtenberger Evelin, Dr.; Lunacek Ulrike, Mag.Use custom fonts; Madethaner Leopold, Ing.Use custom fonts; Maier Johann, Mag.Use custom fonts; Mainoni Eduard, Mag.Use custom fonts; Mertel Ilse, Dr.; Miedl Werner; Mikl- Leitner Johanna, Mag.Use custom fonts; Molterer Wilhelm, Mag.Use custom fonts; Morak Franz; Moser Gabriela, Dr.; Mühlbachler Josef, Dkfm. May.Use custom fonts; Müller Hans; - Muttonen Christine, Mag.Use custom fonts; Neudeck Detlev; German Erwin, DDr.Use custom fonts; Nuremberg Rudolf; Oberhaidinger Georg; Ofner Harald, Dr.; Ollinger Karl; Ortlieb Patrick; Perfuss Ludmilla; Parnigoni Rudolf; Partik-Pablé Helene, Dr.; Pecher Martina, Mag.Use custom fonts; Pendl Otto; Petrovic Madeleine, MMag. Dr.; Pepper Katharina; Pilz Peter, Dr.; Pirklhuber Wolfgang, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Pistony Jacob; Pittermann Elisabeth, Dr. Plank Brunhilde, Mag.Use custom fonts; Platter Günther; Posch Walter, Mag.Use custom fonts; Povysil Brigitte, Dr.; Prammer Barbara, Mag.Use custom fonts; Prince Nicholas; Prinzhorn Thomas, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Pumberger Alois, Dr.; Puttinger Günter, Dkfm. Dr.; Rada Robert, Dr. Rasinger Erwin, Dr. Reheis Gerhard; Reindl Hermann; Good Annemarie; Riepl Franz; Riess-Passer Susanne, Dr.; Shashing Beate; Scheibner Herbert; Schender Rüdiger; Arbitrary Peter; Schlögl Karl, Mag.Use custom fonts; Irina! Irina! Irina! oec.Use custom fonts; Schöggl Leopold, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Kussel Wolfgang, Dr.; Schwarzböck Rudolf; Schwarzenberger Georg; Sweezgut Johannes; Schweitzer Karl, Mag.Use custom fonts; Scatter Emmerich; Sevignani Hans; Silhavy Heidrun; Sima Ulrike, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sodian Andreas; Spindlegger Michael, Dr.; Staffaneller Norbert; Steibl Ridi; Steindl Franz, Mag.Use custom fonts; Stoisits Teresa, Mag.Use custom fonts; Stupid Günter, Dkfm. Dr.; Tancsits Walter, Mag.Use custom fonts; Trattner Gilbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Drink Joseph, Mag. Dr.; Van der Bellen Alexander, Dr.; Constellation of Friedrich; Wattaul Anton; Weinmeier Wilhelm, Ing.Use custom fonts; Vienna Robert; Westenthaler Peter, Ing.Use custom fonts; Wimmer Rainer; Windwood Ernest; Wolfmayr Andrea, Dr.; Worm Gisela, Mag.Use custom fonts; Zelot Roland; Zernatto Christof, Dr.; Adornor Theresia.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1633	I would like to thank the rapporteur or the rapporteur. The Angelobung's done with it. I should like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that with your commitment to the lawful and conscientious exercise of your duties as members of the National Council, you are well-known as members of the National Council, and I can wish you the best success for this task. It's the first time we've ever seen it. Agenda item. 2. Point Election of the President, the Second President and the Third President
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1666	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item: This is the election of the President, the Second President and the Third President of the National Council. I have written constituency proposals, which I hereby announce. There is a proposal for the election of the President of the National Council, speaking on behalf of Dr Heinz Fischer. As far as the second President's election is concerned, I have two constituency proposals, on the proposal of the Austrian Freedom Party, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Prinzhorner, on a proposal from the Green Group in the European Parliament and Council, Mr Evelin Lichtenberger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian For the function of the Third President of the National Council, a proposal for an election is tabled by Mr Dr. Andreas Khol. In accordance with the members of the President's Conference, I propose that a debate be held on this point. The plenary has to decide on this. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this proposal for such a debate to give a sign in this regard. – I note that the decision to hold a debate is unanimous. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1724	According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure will set the speaking time at 20 minutes per group and a maximum of two speakers per group for this debate. Here, too, I ask: Is there any objection to doing so? - That's not the case. We are now going into the debate. Mr Kostelka is the first speaker. A speaking time of up to 12 minutes is required. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1754	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Each election result has an inner logic inherent to it, and the logic of the result of the 3rd round. October calls on all of us to be more willing to design and design than ever before. ==References== October has changed the political landscape of Austria. We can and must understand that the post-war Austria is finally ending, that Austria, which was marked politically by two major parties and a small party. – Today reality is another: There are two parties with 27 percent in this House – and one with more than a third of the votes alone, and thus has a right to mandatory co-determination with constitutional laws and other two-thirds majority decisions. In addition, there is a fourth group of 14 mandates in the Austrian National Council, which – depending on the government coalition but which is not yet available – has a potential opportunity to participate. Ladies and gentlemen! This House will have a much more important and politically heavy role in the legislative period ahead of us, which will begin in these minutes. Constitutional laws will be not only formal, but also content here in this House and not only will be decided. That is why there will be a more political, so to speak, more parliamentary work here in this House. – But this is only one aspect of increased mobility, which the voters took on 3rd place. ==References== Large constituency flows have come into motion. If one still believes at the beginning of the election movement that there is more tendency for this House to become a six-party parliament, then the result has taught us all another: It has become a four-party parliament, and none of the political forces of this country can be sure of the electorate. Ladies and gentlemen! We are on our way from concordance to competition democracy, and in this context my group's commitment is that, if so, we should preserve or develop the common position. We will need this, not least because the most essential laws, as I have already said, will be in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== But also to understand that he is a change – I deliberately say: Change – but does not want a radical turn. In this context, I should like to ask you to show your willingness to develop this new culture in Austria or in the Austrian Parliament. This will not only be a question of content, but also of political style. In the coming weeks and months and months, we will not only have to decide on the role of the opposition, but also to form a new government. ==References====External links== October is that there are three parties that are strong enough that each of them with another can form the government, and the logical result would be that two parties form the government and two parties are in the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! The voter has not finally decided, as with other election results, which political groups will be, but has challenged our political capacity and commissioned us to make this decision. ==References====External links== I ask you to make your contribution to this. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I should like to stress that: We are willing to bear responsibility! We are prepared to bear responsibility in Parliament and also in the government. We know that we have the result of 3. On October 3, there is no right to a government participation, but we also know that the result of the 3rd round of October. October is a task not to evade our responsibility, and neither will we. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need to stress in this House that democracy needs opposition. But democracy also lives by the rule that the more confidence a political party gets in a election, the more responsibility it should seek. We therefore accept the mandate of Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Climate, to explore the possibilities of government formation, is very serious. However, we also believe that there is no parliamentary natural law, according to which 415 votes and only 0.09 percent of the votes of a party are assigned a place on the opposition banks or the government seats are denied. With all commonness: We will need opposition and government in the next legislative period! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no reason for hustle and bustle, but we also need to be aware that those – especially media – who still show great serenity and great patience in connection with the formation of government will let this patience be turned into impatience in the foreseeable future. But, ladies and gentlemen, the real meaning of this short debate is the election of the President. This is the decision we will have to take in the next few hours, and I would like to say on behalf of my group that we recognise the right of every group to proportional representation at the National Council Bureau. The logical consequence of this right is that, according to their strength, the political groups have the right to submit a proposal to the National Council Assembly. My group therefore has this for the First President of the National Council in the person of Dr Heinz Fischergetan, one of the most excellent parliamentarians of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dr. Heinz Fischer has been president of the National Council over the past nine years. He has proved, in difficult and hectic situations, that he can lead this House with a calm and objective hand. I ask you to trust Dr. Heinz Fischer. In addition, it is clear to us – and we recognise this – that the Austrian People's Party, if it may have been difficult for it, has bowed its knees before the parliamentary court, so that Dr. Khol can stand for the office of the Third and not for that of the Second President of the National Council. We are also aware that this is a candidate that is very serious to take. The choice is a personal decision of each Member, and we will make a corresponding decision. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to refer to the election of the Second President of the National Council and add that the candidate of the Liberal Group has not only a formal, but also a content page. In the gaskets – for example in the "Stuttgarter Zeitung" – we have the statement of you, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, can read that there are many advantages for asylum seekers and foreigners and that, as many examples would show, they would have advantages that Austrians did not agree with. This would also include medications for hormone treatment, which would be distributed free of charge by the Social Office in order to increase fertility. Ladies and gentlemen! This statement, which you, honourable Member, have also confirmed in a 'cib 2' interview, highlights the intention or the opportunity to incite fear and express the inferiority of foreigners. Let us make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, in our own interest, but also in the interest of the President of the National Council and in the interest of the Republic of Austria, that we have not had a good experience in Austria with the national motivating of nationality policy. I believe that an Austrian in this regard has to be very careful, and I ask you, Mr Dipl.-Ing. In the interests of the National Council, in the interests of the Bureau, but also in the interest of the Republic of Austria, Prince Horn, on to clarify this clearly!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1872	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. I would also like to make 12 minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1894	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great pleasure for me to speak here at the first meeting of the National Council as a clubman of the second strongest group. ==References== Not only has the decision taken on October that there are now three nearly equally strong groups here in Parliament, but more than 50 new Members have been praised here today on the basis of this election. Half of them are members of my group, and I hope that by these new Members, but also on the basis of the results of the elections of 3. October, the self-understanding we have as parliamentarians of the Republic of Austria is changing, especially in view of what we have had to take note of in recent years in the House. We should take this debate on the election of the National Council Bureau to make some fundamental comments on parliamentaryism and democracy in Austria. At the last meeting of the National Council in July, I criticised the fact that this Assembly has passed 600 laws in recent years, but none of them have emerged in this House. I have criticized 400 initiatives – I emphasize: 400 initiatives!Not only those of Members, but also those of direct democracy, such as citizens' initiatives or petitions, have remained or have not been treated, because there has not been a majority here who would have been willing to accept at least these concerns of the people of Austria. We have also criticised the fact that more than 500 times the Austrian Constitution has been amended over the last ten years by this House, because there has been a government which, with a very "comfortable" two-thirds majority, has withdrawn any law or legislation that might have been constitutionally problematic, precisely with this two-thirds majority of control. ==References====External links== We should also have a electoral mandate here in October to see us as a people's representative again and not as a supporter in the implementation of initiatives that come from the government or from various interest groups or organisations that are not democratically legitimate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should also understand that we are a control body vis-à-vis the government. In recent years, there has been no initiative to control, for example by means of an investigation committee, the government's alleged or actual maladministration, because there are control rights here, which, unlike other parliaments in Europe, constitute a majority right, and it has not been the case so far, that Members here – no matter which group they belonged to – have said: Here it is necessary to clarify something! No matter if I come from the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Greens or the FPÖ, here I have an interest in creating information in the sense of my mission, which I have of my electorate! There is still another need for action, ladies and gentlemen: The problems that move our country must be solved accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, we have had a lot of public debates on the question: What should the next federal government look like? – That’s still uncertain! I hope there will be a stable government very quickly. We have also said again and again: There should finally be ended with any tactical, party-political games. Rather, all the political forces in this country should become aware of their responsibility and be willing to lead Austria into a better future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals are ready to do this! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many problems. But we have an actionable National Council. We have the opportunity to discuss initiatives in committees and to decide here in plenary. For example, we have to decide how to proceed with the families in Austria, how we can relieve households in Austria, how we can objectively promote post-contracting, how we can redefine security policy in the future, and, above all, how we can guarantee the pensions of our older generation. Sometimes, when I look at day-to-day decisions, I have doubts about the signs of the 3. On October 1st, they have also been properly understood by all, especially if coalition pacts are rewritten, if, after the election, there are still strong post-occupied posts, but even if, as we learned a few days ago, the Pension Advisory Board proposes to increase pensions by 0.4 percent, while the Court of Auditors at the same time notes that Members' salaries – that is, by all of us here – should be increased by 3.3 percent next year. There's something wrong with the value! 40 S more for pensioners who get 10,000 S a month, but over 3,000 S more for politicians sitting in this House! Ladies and gentlemen! It should be our first initiative to say: We are primarily there for the weak in this country, for those who earn little, for the pensioners in this country! The 0.4 percent or – as it was to be heard in the discussion – 1 percent cannot be what we attribute to that generation that has built our country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us start an initiative together – and we liberals will make an application in this direction – that we will also introduce a zero wage round for politicians for the next year. 3.3 percent are simply not justified, ladies and gentlemen. That's where we should send a clear signal! Today's election of the three Presidents of the National Council should also be a signal in the direction of Parliament's understanding of a certain consensus in various decisions on all the different access to content. Just as there is a consensus in the occupation of the committees, as is often the case with the President, who decides various guidelines for our parliamentary activities, there should be a broad consensus as far as possible regarding the highest body not only of this House, but also – and that is very high functions of the State – of the Republic of Austria as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! We, too, acknowledge the use that has been taking place here in the House for a few years and is largely undisputed: that, according to their strength relationship, the parties hold the right of nomination for these important functions. We recognize this use and also say that there is no room for tactical play and party-political hack. The election campaign is over, the political debate will lead us to the content, but it makes no sense to make the highest positions in this House and in this country the gameball of politics and parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At this point I must expressly acknowledge that the Austrian People's Party has clearly disputed that it also accepts this right of nomination. This is certainly not easy for her, because it is only 415 votes that separate our two parties. It may be that the oats are one or the other, but this procedure has been accepted very quickly, and we also recognize the right of nomination of the ÖVP. If a clubman is nominated for the office of President of the National Council, one can always think about what conflicts there have been in recent years. But in this case we also distinguish between the office of the clubman with all the necessities that this office sometimes carries with it and the mandate that a President of the National Council holds. We will also take this into account in our election decision. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will also apply this point of departure to the position of the First President of the National Council, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, even though some of us have criticised – less in the presidency of President Fischer, but more so that sometimes the role of the First President of the National Council has been mixed with the function of the Deputy Party Chairperson of the Social Democratic Party of Austria. I believe that there is a need for greater separation and that it should not be as easy as possible – for example, for a committee chairman, who has objectively to operate in his function in the committee and, of course, acting in the external direction – to mix these two functions. Objectivity must not be missing in this case! I believe that the functions of party politicians and presidents are more severely separated. This objectivity must also be applied in the "normal" political debate. Again: We recognize the right of nomination. There will be no players, and there is, of course, the free choice of our Members. Ladies and gentlemen! For the office of the Second President of the National Council, we nominate with Thomas Prinzhorn an independent candidate who does not perform party functions in the FPÖ, which is unconventional, but which certainly preserves objectivity. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has proved that he can run a company with 2 500 employees, will also be able to deal with us MEPs here in Parliament. [[Unrest in the ranks of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Kostelka! I also understood your statements as a task for a different political style to all political groups. You have a question to us, to Thomas Prinzhorn, and I would like to ask one right. You quoted the interview in question, and I'm telling you how authentic it was. The journalist asked: Where do you see inequalities between countries and foreigners? – Thomas Prinzhorn replied: For example, medications. Parts of foreigners receive medication from the Social Office free of charge, while nationals have to go to the head doctor and in about 80 percent have to pay for it themselves. – Question by the journalist: What medications? – Answer: From the pill to the hormone preparation. What you added is not from Thomas Prinzhorn! It has certainly been a pedagogical statement, but Thomas Prinzhorn has already said several times correctly that he did not want to make a discriminatory statement with that, but in the campaign for election, he pointed to an inequality of treatment in this area. Mr Kostelka! If today we would also make your election brochures the basis for our election decision for the Bureau, then we could make a very clear decision. But the election campaign must be over. We believe that we must tackle the problems together in this country, and to this end we will not lead the exclusion of political parties, but a broad consensus as far as possible in the task of working for Austria and its people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The election of the Presidents can be a first sign that all of us are the signal of the citizens of the 3rd century. On 3 October, it was recognized that the interests of the party strategists were no longer in the foreground of our policy, but that, above all, we here in Parliament, in this House, we were only obliged to do one thing, namely the mandate that the electorate gave us on 3 October. In October, he served as a representative of the interests of the Republic of Austria and its people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2057	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2081	Mr President. High house! The People's Office is meeting for the first time today. Much is different, starting from the seating order, where we – beautiful to see that – are in the middle, up to new faces. Allow me, at this point, to thank all those who have held their office in the service of Austria during the last legislative period, no matter which party they belong to, and to welcome the new ones. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is new that we will have to elect the Bureau of the National Council at the beginning, three important functions to be carried out in the interests of the State and of the Parliament. I agree with what my previous speaker said, namely that the parliamentary rule, which is something very important to Usance. That is why we are fully committed to complying with this rule of play. If I may wish for something, Mr Scheibner, I expect the three presidents to see them not primarily as their task of "becoming ready" with Members, but as an objective Presidency for all. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the greens.]] But one thing is certain – and I say this out of real conviction, because I was praised by the third-oldest Member here in the House in 1979; Heinz Fischer is the Doyen of the House, in 1971 –: Heinz Fischer has been a prime president of the National Council. He has done his job well, and it is good to know someone who can do this at the head of the National Council. He's got mine, he's got our support. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We respect, of course, even if the results of the elections on this point are painful, but it is precisely that – the right of the Freedom Party as the second strongest group – not mandates, but we are the same, but of votes – to propose to the candidate for the office of the Second President. Thomas Prinzhorn is certainly a serious proposal. He'll have our support. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For the office of the Third President, I propose to our former clubman Andreas Khol. I don't think I need to introduce him. He is undoubtedly an enthusiastic and probably also gifted parliamentarian, who really bears many positive qualities, which one expects from a people's representative. He is one who, in word and in writing, expresses himself and his opinion, which stands on principles, but who, even though the conflict may have been so hard, has never stopped the bridge to conversation, one who has gained in the presidential experience and who has also been Vice-Chairman in the Constitutional Committee. I mean, he's a very good candidate, so we suggest him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thank you, of course, also apply to the exodus Second President whom we have nominated from our group during the last legislative period and who, as I believe, has received broad approval across all political borders. Heinrich Neisser was very close to the ideal image of a people's representative for many years and decades. We regret that he no longer belongs to this newly elected National Council. So at this point a sincere thank you to him. [[General condolences.]] It is new – and this has already been said by previous speakers – that we have four parties in Parliament today, three of which are almost the same. In fact, the qualified majority is only possible if there is a consensus that goes beyond the two parties so far. This will also bring new opportunities for Parliament, as I believe, new opportunities. Perhaps it is sometimes more complicated or difficult to reach a consensus, but at least I think that this will not harm this House and that, if this happens with responsibility and sensitivity, one will undoubtedly go a good way. In this sense, I think it is also very right that the Federal President, on the basis of this particular situation, now wants to focus on discussions on the future of the country. We will be happy to take part in these future talks in the light of our responsibilities, because I believe that according to the major tasks of the past legislative period – the EU integration of Austria, the savings price, the stability rate, which has been providing us with primarily surpluses in the state budget for three years, if only the current account of the year, the revenue/expenditure, and the costs for past sovereign debt, interest and repayments – are now in demand of other priorities: for example, the conversion of the Austrian success model, more investment instead of real estate or existing in research, into the future. The public sector, which is much higher in Europe than in America as a whole, is more than 10 percent higher, in Austria is a little higher than the European average, so efficiency is needed in the next legislative period instead of savings packages. The aim is a competitive, ecologically oriented social market economy – instead of a humane neoliberalism or an environmentally hostile disposable society. That's what we're trying to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Europe, of course, remains fate and opportunity for us at the same time. From the enlargement of the Union to integration into the euro zone – in two years we have the euro money – to the creation of a European peace order, Europe is the crucial opportunity for us. We from the People's Party are the classic European party and do not intend to reduce or withdraw only one of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there is also a need for a new social and social consensus, going to how to help the weak without discouraging or exaggerating the strong; how to awaken curiosity for the future, rather than continue to promote rest on well-acquired rights; how to keep the passion of politics awake, without inciting hatred and contempt for dissidents or other born. In this sense, I believe that a new style here in the House will be necessary. I would also like to say quite openly: As a Christian Democrat, it has affected me, as in the final phase of the election campaign, in which the emotions go up anyway – this is now in a competitive democracy, in which, of course, polarization, the escalation is called for – emotions were still consciously fueled, about posters, about statements, about leaflets and so on. And the consequences of this work. When the esteemed president of the Israeli Cultural Community, Dr. Ariel Muzicant, reported on abuses and insults after the election day, he was still criticized in retrospect. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to him for his words, for we must not spread out a coat of silence, no more tolerate death. I ask everyone in this House to join this overall consensus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] These are not the 1930s, and we have no major record, that is Austria, and this is actually one of the few real political and economic success stories in this new Europe. We will also be able to appear all the more credible in relation to global convictions and flat-rate suspicions from abroad, the more sensitive we ourselves are inside and already bring the beginnings to life. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the greens.]] It is not too long ago – I think it was in December last year – that we held a symposia in Vienna at the initiative of Simon Wiesenthal on the sources of hatred. It's not history that matters, it's present, and it's not the distance – the Balkans, Kosovo or today, for example, the North or South Caucasus – that it's all about, but it's quite close. Peace and reconciliation must begin at home! Only then can peace and stability be truly exported! Perhaps we are not powerful enough to the sources of hatred, but how strong the sources of charity can be, we decide for ourselves, that is in our hand. In this sense, this newly elected National Council may become a kind of living house of tolerance!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2227	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2248	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have a candidate for the second place of the National Council Presidency: Mrs. Dr. Eva Lichtenberger. We offer you this alternative, and I'll explain why. To the person I would like to say very briefly: Mrs. Dr. Eva Lichtenberger is one of our most experienced politicians. She has been behind five years of club work in the Tiroler Landtag, has five years of government experience in the Tyrolean state government, so she has taken over important and essential political tasks for a total of ten years – about twice as long as I am, I could now add in parentheses. Why are we doing that? Why do the Greens do this, although they have been 'tactively' today, to point out that they are the fourth strongest group in this House, although strengthened against the last legislative period? I would like to point out that, of course, every party has a right of nomination – for whatever place in the Bureau. If I am not mistaken, there is no need for any nomination under the Rules of Procedure, but every Member of this House can be elected to every seat of the Bureau, even without a party's nomination. There is also no historical precedent, if one takes it strictly, for this sequence, which, for me incomprehensible, Mr Kostelka mentioned here. There have been legislative periods in this House in which the first chairman was a Social Democratic, the second a People's Party, the third a Social Democratic, although always in the Second Republic... – After d'Hondt, my God, yes! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: After d’Hondt!]] Formal arguments, Mr Kostelka! Today, it is not only about formal questions, it is about the subject matter of who is to represent this country in which place, who can and may represent it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm starting with a little story that I didn't experience myself, but that I was told very crediblely. The bad thing about it is that she's so credible. Vienna, October 1999, tram. A somewhat disabled woman, as an alien or, at least, a naturalized Austrian, can be seen as somehow foreign to her headcloth, enters the tramway. A man gets up and makes her place. As a result, a bitter, lively discussion in this tram car arises: Listen, wås måzchst der Chuschin Plåtz? – So far we are in this country?- Oh, my God! It's inconceivable! As close as xenophobia, xenophobia, human contempt, and man-humanity are among the same thoughts, you have to make this clear on the basis of this little story. A small insignificant story, and yet it arouses memories – at least in me, and I hope, in many others too –, for example, to the Pole of the early 1940s, when Poland had to leave the walkway when a German "man of the Lord" came along. This is an individual case, certainly. Let us hope that this is an individual case, but individual cases accumulate, the saloon capacity of certain statements is increasing. I am convinced that most of you have learned this: the saloonability not only of hostile statements, not only of this latent Xenophobia, which in itself is harmless, which we already know from the novels of Agatha Christie, but rather of something quite different, something harder is increasing. I personally did not hear many but a hand full of clearly national socialist statements in the campaign. The notable thing is not that I hear this, but the remarkable thing is that one dares to say that it is possible to say it publicly, though in a very small public to a Member or to someone else. By the way, I can make an unwarranted witness – he's sitting there – famous for this: Minister for the Interior Schlögl. In yesterday's issue of the "standard" it says: Minister Schlögl places a dangerous mood in Austria; Infringements against Jewish and foreign citizens were on the increase. – You need to know, Minister of the Interior. Of course, FPÖ is not solely responsible for this development. Basically, each one of us is a little co-responsible, for example, when you experience something like this in the tramway – and silences and watches or does not participate and looks away. It is not for me to interfere in such cases; I know exactly how difficult that is. But we here, the 183 Members of this House, have a special responsibility that goes far beyond that of a tram passenger. You are not solely responsible by the FPÖ, that is not a question at all, but you are co-responsible. Every party that has a campaign of this kind in Vienna must be called co-responsible for this development, with these two posters – you know what I mean: on a yellow background. Every political interested person, every political educated person knows what this yellow color is associated with, what it means: This is an indirect allusion to latent anti-Semitism in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We don't have an election event here today, the election campaign is over, we have a simple task. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner. They have listed everything that is possible, and I will confine myself to what we have to do here and today, namely to elect the First, Second and Third Presidents of the National Council. I mean, that's not any choice you should go back to formal criteria: These are the strongest, these are the second-strengths, the others are the third-strengths – and finished. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: This is democracy, Professor!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You explain it as you need it!]] The First President of the National Council is, however, if I am not mistaken, the second man or the second woman, depending on – even before the Federal Chancellor – in our state, behind the President of the Federal Republic. And if Heinz Fischer has a flu, then it is the Second National Council President who represents this country inside and outside. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Protocolary, beautiful and good, it's only protocolic if you want to. It is also not a fullness of power, but it is an important representative task, an important representative office that this country has to give. At least in that, Mr Scheibner will certainly agree with me. The FPÖ believes we should choose its candidates. I am not going to list the characteristics of the guardian of the FPÖ again. It is sufficient to remember that the employment policy of the "Third Reich" was "exemplary" for him. I do not understand the ÖVP, the third largest group in this House – which, by the way, is the second largest ex aequo for me – as it deals with such political statements that it simply ignores them. But let's put all this aside. I have no desire and no time to list all Dr. Haider's comments here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why do you do it then?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: But we do it already!]] But Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, whose statements in the "Stuttgarter Zeitung" have already been mentioned by Mr. Kostelka, has not taken away this nonsense, this insanity of my knowledge to this day. Maybe he'll talk and do it afterwards, but that's too little for me. It's been at least three weeks to take that back. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Scheibner! You're appealing to the consensus of this house here and today. To which consensus?, I ask you. Of course, there is a consensus on formal democratic rules. I do not see that you could derive from it a right to the Second President of the National Council. A consensus on expressions as they have been in favour of the "Stuttgarter Zeitung" will hopefully never exist in this house. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was, at least for minutes, a certain edifying atmosphere in this house, but if you free yourself from it for a moment, then, I would say, one realizes that the calculation of the liberals is still relatively simple: Mr Prinzhorn wanted to and wants to become Chancellor, but unfortunately he is not only standing in the way of the current chancellor, but also Dr. Haider. Mr Prinzhorn wanted and may still want to become a clubman, but Mr Scheibner stands in his way. [[Abg. Scheibner: And how were you in your group?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Petrovic cleared, reserved!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: How do you deal with your colleagues?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you deal with women in your group?]] I also wanted to be a clubman – and I did. [[New calls to the liberals.]] But because Mr. Prinzhorn could not be, you said: Then we will at least make him the Second President of the National Council, so that there is a preliminary peace. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Who of the People's Party, who of the Social Democrats, I ask myself, join in? You can really take part in this, all serious, on an eminent political question, not in a formal democratic question, Mr Klubobmann and Vice-Chancellor Schüssel? Do you not have a certain sample of nails today – I mean every single Member and every individual member of the Socialists and the People's Party? Haven't you gone abroad and told your colleagues what's going on or is not going on in Austria? Has not the Federal Chancellor personally tried to explain to some foreign journalist how to interpret the election result et cetera? Are you not of the opinion that, before continuing to go abroad, some sort of thing is to be done here in Austria so that Austria can maintain its reputation? Mr Schüssel, Mr Khol, Mr Mag. Climate – and as they all call it, the reputational personalities of this Republic – didn't you say that there must be a new style in this republic, in the government and elsewhere? Do you not feel that you are making a wrong start if you simply cut this vote off as a matter of order? Faith You really don't? Do you not feel that responsibility means taking account of the political implications of this electoral procedure today, here in the country and outside the country? – I am particularly concerned about the country and not as much about how it is interpreted outside. But your responsibility today in voting – and I mean not only Mr Schüssel, but every individual in the People's Party, as you are all sitting here – begins here and today, now, in Vienna. As for all this talk of integration and how kind we are, in truth, to the foreigners and so on – I have listened to you, Mr Schüssel –: You have to make that credible in any way through actions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You do not make this credible by choosing a representative of the Freedom Party, who is always exact for the opposite and stands, today in this protocol critically important office of the Republic of Austria. I ask you, therefore, to ask you, yes, I ask you to take this responsibility and not to take it as a formal matter of Rules of Procedure. Today no voice for a candidate of the liberals: That would be a signal from this Republic to forget the whole election campaign! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2463	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Time remaining: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2484	Mr President. High house! The election has brought new majority relations. These results have, of course, also changed the composition of the political groups. We see here very clearly how many women are represented in the individual political groups. As the women of SPÖ are a major concern, I am proud to say that despite the loss of six mandates, the SPÖ has increased its share of women from 29.6 percent to 32.3 percent. The so-called election winners, the winners, have significantly reduced the proportion of women despite a profit of eleven mandates. And the proportion of women in the Greens who represent themselves as the women's party and with a profit of five mandates strengthened from the election has fallen from a two-thirds female participation to 50 percent. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Seven women!]] In the past, they had a share of 66.7%, now one of 50 percent. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is what you want us to do, the reduction from 66 to 50 percent!]] And there is a marginal improvement in the field of the ÖVP. Furthermore, an unfortunate effect is that there are no longer any female club chairmen. Everything that moves in higher positions is in this house in a male hand. That is why, in this situation, we can only call on women – and I would like to do so – to find new forms of cooperation in this House, across party borders. Ladies and gentlemen! To the next topic. The election of the First, Second and Third Presidents of the National Council is not a purely formal act. It is about which personalities of this office, which after the Federal President is the second highest in the country, can best fulfil. It is a question of who, through his previous political activity, is capable of fulfilling the high professional, moral and human demands which are at all events placed on this function. Not least, it is about choosing individuals who best represent Austrian parliamentary democracy in Germany and abroad. It has been one of the parliamentary practices since 1983 that the First, Second and Third National Council Presidents are elected after the strong votes of the parties. With Dr. Heinz Fischer, Social Democracy is one of the most experienced parliamentarians in the Second Republic to propose the election of the First National Council President. Heinz Fischer embodies this function crediblely and above all crediblely through his high expertise, his competence, his humanity and his outstanding diplomatic abilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He is undoubtedly a guarantee of positive parliamentary cooperation. Let's remember: Since Heinz Fischer is president of the National Council, Austrian parliamentarianism has achieved a new quality, a new standard. The working conditions of MEPs have been significantly improved, and the importance of parliamentary work has increased significantly in the political system as a whole. From my point of view, Dr. Heinz Fischer is a national council president with competence, heart and soul. The proposal by the Greens, by the clubman Van der Bellen, to elect Mrs. Dr. Eva Lichtenberger as the Second President, is an alluring offer. But of course I join my clubman, who has observed that it does not correspond to the habits of the house's use, the weakest one to serve the smallest party according to d'Hondt's distribution rules. However, I also agree with the view that Dr. Andreas Khol proposed an experienced, proven parliamentarian for the office of the Third President of the National Council. I am convinced that the Third President of the National Council Khol will be accustomed to the negotiations of "Orchideen-Themen", as he has referred to women's issues, women's policy, equal treatment policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Only the name right, Mrs. Colleague!]] I am also convinced that as the third President of the National Council, he will lead the negotiations on these issues objectively. I am also convinced that you will grow into the state-owned role – I must say, of course: in the patient state-manic role – of the very valued President of the National Council Neisser. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] The SPÖ therefore does not question the fundamental right of any group to be represented in the Bureau. However, we also respect the right of every individual Member to be free to decide according to his conscience. And here I come to the candidate of the Freedom Party, Princehorn. This candidate, of course, is thoughtful, and I do not want to hide my ambivalence and scepticism. You say, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, the election campaign is over, but: You don't have such an election fight! They have reached a sad low point in political competition, a low point in terms of content, style and choice of means: yellow foreigners posters. Thomas Prinzhorn not only carried this alarming campaign against foreigners, but he himself has preserved this campaign by nothing to justify, yes, most embarrassing, yes absurd statements. But he probably knows what he's talking about when he puts hormones and child wealth in a causal connection. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have assumed that we want to station nuclear weapons in Austria! That was your election style!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the election campaign of the Freedom Party has significantly reduced the threshold in our country and shown how far hatred can go – and that in 1999, not 60 years ago, in the 1930s! The attacks, the reproaches, the harassments of people of other nations, the harassment of members of Jewish communities have increased considerably. Caritas Director Landau noted: It's time to stop looking away. It is shocking and shocking when attacks against Jewish fellow citizens take place in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing to add to these words. But we Austrians must not allow people to be put back in fear because of their origin, gender, culture, skin color, or religion in our country. [[Abg. Scheibner: And their political attitude!]] I therefore appeal to the members of the FPÖ in this House: Find the clear and correct words that are not just tinches that we all and the public expect from you! I also appeal to the future President of the National Council, Mr Prinzhorn: Carriers First of all, and make it clear to the public that human contempt, in whatever form, has no place in our parliamentary democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2598	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. The remaining speaking time is 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2619	Mr President! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the seventh constituent sitting I have been in this House since 1979 as an elected Member. I have to say it's always exciting, it's interesting, it's also beautiful in a sense, because it's important. The constituent meeting of the National Council is an interface in living democracy. It is the transition from the election campaign – election campaign, which is the horizontal counterpart of all the competitors – to the parallelly oriented, forward-looking legislative work, which the elected here in the house then prescribe. And it is at the same time the end of the election campaign, the final end – or at least it should be. Until the National Council is established, the fighting continues, they are usually over. I know that the temptation is great to bring to the man things you think they've gone in. I am truly grateful, sincerely grateful, in this context to the new clubman of the Greens, who has come to this position instead of a lady, for he has taken the mask from the face. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Greens have not only achieved their unquestionably respectable success by inhaling another opposition party, namely the Liberals, the Greens have also been able to achieve successes with a top-level candidate, who has understood that he is different from the other Greens. Because many who have said: I never choose the Greens, never!, have believed the Van der Bellen was different. But today, you've experienced media activity, he's quite the same. He goes through the local with the Benzincanne, does not act as a Biedermann, but as an arsonist, and many, many citizens have experienced this. I am really happy about this because we could not have done so much information work to make it clear to the citizens so comprehensively. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Klubobmann Scheibner has already explained clearly and clearly that it has nothing in itself with the Tartar report from the "Stuttgarter Nachrichten" in reality. But it is convenient to stay with the given texts and also with what one has done in this connection about the ramp. I too may wish for something at the threshold to this legislative period: On the one hand, the Federal Government has shown more respect than in recent years to the House, and on the other hand, it is that the members of the National Council have more self-confidence in their activity and in their function. It is not true that the Federal Government would be the executive authority of the National Council. – The opposite is the case: The Federal Government is a sort of outflow, a function of the activity of the House. We have laws, and we do, even though they do not always grow on our dung. But the Federal Government has to do. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you recognize that this is the case and that we must live it – more than before, I wish! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'd like to say something else: In public life and here in the house, the rules are formed by laws, but also by use. In the election of the Presidents of the National Council, Usancen takes his place, and the temptation to disembark these uses could be great for one person or another – for one, in fact, only – my predecessor. But let no one overlook that it is the use and only the use that helps the smaller and the weaker in such things. The Great doesn't need the Usances. If the stronger parties come together, they can also cause all three presidents to be put by a strong party. Only the uses that prevent this. In the sense of the rule of law and democracy, therefore, it is not only appropriate to stick to it, it is also important especially in the sense of opposition, and one should not play with the fire either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another word to the liberal candidate Princehorn. – Princehorn, as I see things, is a good candidate. He has shown in the course of his life – even his not so long political life – that he can have quite abandoned ideas – including in his own group – that he has the power to express them and to endure things as well. He's not a hammerman, and he's got independence and weight. I am convinced that he will be a good second president in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2698	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2719	Mr President! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we elect the Bureau of the National Council – a function that is of great importance to the Republic. In addition to the Federal President and the Constitutional Court, the Bureau of the National Council is also guardian of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has good reason for the strong groups to be represented in the National Council Bureau: The Bureau must also be a crisis manager in this House very often – we have experienced this over and over again in the past legislative periods. It is important that consensus can be found that all great forces in this country – without censorship! – are represented there and contribute to the welfare of the Republic. It is in practice in this House that the strongest political group presents the First President, the second strongest political group to the Second President and the third strongest group to the Third President. Although we from the Austrian People's Party have achieved the same proportion of mandates as the FPÖ, on the 100th percentage point we have reached exactly the same percentage, we have not had enough votes to become the second strongest political group. We also have humility in the face of the more than 1.2 million voters who have elected this party and expressed that it should also have a decisive role in Parliament. However, we expect their candidate to conduct this office impartially and objectively. That is, we expect the candidate of the second strongest party – as before – to lead his office impartially. Ladies and gentlemen! We take – without tricks – a political claim of the three largest parties to one place in the Bureau. I already mentioned it: Even if we do not have a few votes, we have come to know that we will propose to the candidate for the Third President's office. This principle of proportionality is also applied to all other occupations, such as the committees, in the representation of the Council of Europe. The electoral act before us is the first decision that the newly elected National Council will take at the beginning of this legislative period. I am also pleased that our group – and I can say this proudly – can propose an excellent parliamentarian for the position of the Third President of the National Council, and I invite all of you here in this House to give your vote to Mr Dr. Andreas Khol. [[Complementary with the ÖVP and detonative congratulation with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have a requirement profile for all candidates. We expect from the candidates constitutional fidelity, law-reliance, sovereign and objective leadership, impartiality and distance to the party dispute. We shall address this profile to all the candidates of the Bureau. The same applies to all, and we measure it. We must be aware that this is the second highest state office in the Republic, a state office of high symbolic salary. We do not yet know what the composition of the next government will look like. At present, exploratory discussions are under way on future issues, which will surely result in government negotiations, and we hope there will be a stable government over the next four years. Like Mr Van der Bellen, I would like to end my speech with a little story that is symbolic, namely: A father wanted to give the children an insoluble task. He tore his big world map into many small parts, then gave them adhesive to put this card together again. And here, in a short time, the children came back to their father with the finished, exactly composed world map. On the question: How did you do this in this short period of time? The children explained to him: On the back of this map was a human being pictured, and we know how a person looks. And when man was in order, the world was also in order. In this sense, we want to start work for the next four years for the benefit of our home country, and we need the cooperation of all.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2782	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Petrovic. Time left: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2804	Mr President. High house! The previous speakers of the government parties have consistently criticised the style of the election campaign, including the Liberal Group, but have made a commitment to the use of this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I ask you – including Mrs. Dr. Mertel: What is the essence of Usancen? Uses make parliamentary everyday life easier, more viable, but they are not a law. And Usancen, in my opinion, should then withdraw, should not be respected if otherwise there is a danger to that country and if otherwise the reputation of that Republic could be damaged. Then you have to distance yourself from these uses. That's the very nature of Usancen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot elect a Member of Parliament as President for two reasons. The first reason is that this candidate is also a candidate who has reacted with ignorance to an essential, a horrific chapter of the history of this country, although it itself concerns him in a very special way, namely to the history of arization with the National Socialist crimes in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: You abuse the victims of this time for your party policy!]] – Mr Scheibner! Take care of what you are using in this house, be careful! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Permanent!]] Thomas Prinzhorn, on the question of the arbitership of the company, which he is the head of, meant that his predecessors in the management of the company, including members of his family, would have helped the Jewish owners to flee at the time. It's true that factory director Max Pam died, was murdered on 13 March. ==References====External links== This is the tragic, the terrible truth. [[Abg. Scheibner: You abuse the victims of this time for your party policy! That's the disgraceful one!]] It has been clarified by a former Federal Chancellor, Dr. Vranitzky, the co-responsible of Austria. Co-responsibility does not mean collective debt, but there is a very special responsibility for those who also have a special close relationship with such aristocratic assets, namely that they do not hide, suppress, or contribute to the oblivion of a quantity. And this allegation must be made. They fall in all forms. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You continue a lie about this republic, and in your case it is also a very personal one. [[Call to the liberals: This is disgusting!]] The second reason why I cannot vote for Mr Prinzhorn lies in the Freedom Party itself and in its unclear demarcation to violence. [[Abg. Scheibner: And that your followers beat down pensioners only because they participate in free events! Say something about that!]] Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt, who unfortunately no longer belongs to this House, once reported – and not from free party meetings – that you have taken power in the run-up to the Ausländern-Volksbehren's desire. In February 1993 there was this freedom of movement, and in December 1993 the first letter bombs were delivered. [[Abg. Scheibner: Great, this comparison!]] But the history of the liberals in connection with violence does not stop there. This leaflet, which was delivered in this 1999 election campaign in Vienna, is a clearly racist, an infernal, it is unresponsible. [[the speaker keeps a leaflet up to date]] I haven't heard a word from the current candidate Princehorn about him dissociating himself from it, and that's unbearable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your speech is unbearable!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now we know why you have been selected!]] Let me give you an example: This leaflet has been delivered in Feldbach. [[the speaker holds another leaflet in the height]] How much foreigners do Feldbach have left? It's called there. It depicts a sausage stand led by a Turkish concession holder. This stand burned shortly before the election. Mr. Ofner! The petrol canisters were apparently put off there by your sympathizers. [[Call out to the liberals: great!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Since your election you have become unbearable!]] There it actually burned, there this injustice has been committed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! Now it's time for an order call!]] The following should also give you some thought: This country has a lively parliamentaryism, but this country does not tolerate any use of racism and anti-Semitism in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3029	In the word, no one has been reported for this. This debate is closed. We're coming to the elections. There is the desire to do so on § 88 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be supported in order to carry out these elections in electoral cells. If the desire is sufficiently supported, action must be taken in this way. – It is sufficiently supported, and we therefore have to proceed in this way. Election of the President
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3065	The first is the election of the President of the National Council. The election proposal submitted by the SPÖ was already referred to at the beginning of the debate. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be secret to the election of the President, with votes in favour. I am interrupting the session for a very short period of time so that the electoral cells can be set up here. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended for a short time)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3105	The preparations are over. I'll start the interrupted session again. I can briefly describe the electoral process, especially for the newly elected Members. The minutes to be used shall be issued by the two representatives of the Parliamentary Directorate, together with Kuvert, after the name of the rapporteur. Only this official poll can be used for the election. On this poll, the name of the desired candidate or candidate shall be written in the election cell. After completion of the voting document, it shall be cast, if possible in the envelope, into the urn provided for it. I would now ask the honourable Members, after the name call by Mrs Schrifter, to receive the vote paper here on the left or right of the electoral cells, to go to the election cell, to fill in the poll and then to cast it into the election seat. Mrs Reitsamer will begin, Mr Auer will replace her. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3148	Thanks a lot. The name call is over. All the convoys have cast their voices. I should like to ask the House's officials to take the vote under the supervision of the authors. For this period I interrupt the meeting of the National Council. The meeting was suspended in the short term. (The sitting was suspended at 12.11 a.m. and resumed at 12.27 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3188	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats again. I will resume the interrupted session and I will be able to announce the results of the election as follows: All 183 Members voted. Of the votes cast, 158 were valid. The absolute majority is therefore 80 votes. The vote was taken by Dr Heinz Fischer140, by Mr Faul and by other Members. [[These 12 votes were for the MEPs: Hostasch: 1, Dr. Heindl: 2, Dr. Khol: 1, Dr. Kostelka: 1, MMag. Dr. Petrovic: 1, Mag. Schlögl: 4, Arbitrators: 1, Resistance: 1.]] The Rules of Procedure oblige me to say that Member Dr Heinz Fischer has been elected President of the National Council. [[Generally persistent condolences.]] Statement by the President
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3246	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you that I accept this choice, with great joy and gratitude, and that, as I can, I will try to carry out the tasks and duties connected with this function to the best of my strength and to justify this great confidence. If you have been President of this House for a number of years, and you have held the presidency, you have of course not always been able to make it right for all the members and all the political groups. But I don't think they were always allowed to do it right. The most important limit in fulfilling this task cannot be to make it as many as possible, but to ensure objectively that our rules and standards are properly respected in all situations. In this sense, I will continue my efforts. I will also try – and this has been mentioned today – to work towards a gradual further improvement of our working conditions and the reputation of this House. One of our objectives in this context is, for example, the use of opportunities arising from the takeover of the Palais Epstein, which has been used by the City School Council so far, for Parliament's purposes. As I suppose, in line with all the political groups in this House, I note: The use of this neighboring building by the Austrian People's Office does not mean to lay or even reject the thought of a house of history or a house of tolerance to the files. On the contrary: We want this project – a house of time history – to be realized in the best possible way and on the widest possible basis. There are many reasons to do so. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP, on the Greens and on Dr. Riess-Passer and Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one at the moment knows how the efforts to create a new federal government are going to be made and what results these efforts will lead to. But one thing is already clear: in its new legislative period, which we are starting today, the National Council will have to fulfil very important tasks, that decisions of this House will be taken with great interest, probably with greater interest than in previous legislative periods, and that our responsibility for the development of our country and for the further development of our political system has grown. In exercising this responsibility, we must also look for new ways, such as from the mandate of the voters of the 3rd century. In October, new ways of cooperation between the political groups, new ways of cooperation between Parliament and the Government, new ways – if only possible – in increasing the quality of our parliamentary and political work and new ways of doing so, of course, also in terms of content. For example, I take the freedom to say on this occasion how positive it would be and how positive it would certainly be to the public if the Austrian National Council would send strong signals of its interest in strengthening dialogue with representatives of art and science if the National Council could give positive impetus, for example, towards the creation of an Austrian National Foundation for Art – we call it "Millennium Foundation" or call it "Foundation Pro Austria" – or impulse for a round table for the purpose of developing a common strategy for reasonable reforms and further development in the field of constitutional and fundamental rights. This, by the way, does not go beyond the basic principles of our community, which have proved themselves, including many "construction laws" of our federal constitution. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: At the main portal of the Parliament building on the ring side, we have a little less than two years ago, namely on the 10th century. In the presence of representatives of all political groups, a marble panel is attached on December 1, 1998, which reflects Article 1 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. This is: "All humans are born free and equal to dignity and rights. They are gifted with reason and conscience, and they are to meet one another in the spirit of fraternity." This and precisely this principle also commits us to our parliamentary work, not only in the theory: We have to fill it with life! We must take human rights, the same dignity of all human beings seriously and oppose all forms of xenophobia, as has recently been said by Cardinal Dr. König. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Prinzhorn, Dr. Riess-Passer and Scheibner.]] Awareness is needed, and Mr Vice-Chancellor has also referred to this term in his speech today. But the proportions must also be preserved. No careful differentiation would be permitted. That is why I would like to say once again and with great determination: It's really my conviction: Austria is a country whose population, with overwhelming majority – with a majority that, as I believe, is not smaller than the majority in other European states – condemns the terrible crimes of National Socialism and any form of anti-Semitism to the most decisive – I repeat: to the most decisively condemned – and also knows our particular responsibility in this area. [[General acknowledgment]] It has to stay there, and it will stay there. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to close without saying a warm word of thanks to the honourable Members for their parliamentary work – and especially at this hour. I have already done this in the last session before the summer, but I repeat it because today the new legislative period has begun, and with the last day the old one had ended. I have the right to vote in favour of all my colleagues in the Bureau, Dr. Heinrich Neissernennen. [[Generally lively condolences.]] I would also like to mention two members of the House, whose retirement from the National Council before the summer was not foreseeable. I would like to thank the third President of the National Council, Dr. Brauneder, for his work in the National Council Bureau and for his correct and objective cooperation at the Presidential Conference. [[Generally lively condolences.]] I would also like to thank Mrs Heide Schmidt, who has been a member of the National Council's presidential conference from 1990 to yesterday, for her work in the Austrian National Council and for her commitment, which she has expressed on many issues. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] I should like to welcome the newly elected members of the House, who have apparently already been fully integrated, once again and offer them good and trusting cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I wish all of us a successful legislative period and our home country a good and peaceful future! Thank you. [[Generally lively condolences.]] Before we proceed in the constitution, I would like to do something more, not only in writing but also in oral terms. There has been a terrible terrorist robbery in the Parliament of Armenia in these days, a state that is a member of the OSCE and also has a host status in the Council of Europe. President Karen Demirchjan and Prime Minister Vasgen Sarkissjan were shot. I have expressed my participation in this in writing. I do this here and, as I suppose, in your name in front of the House. [[General condolences.]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3388	I would now like to continue in the constitution itself. We come to the election of the Second President. There are those constituencies which have already been announced at the beginning of the debate. I can repeat her: A motion for a resolution is tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Prinzhorn. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Evelin Lichtenberger for his excellent report. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this election in secret and with voting documents. In turn, I would draw attention to the fact that only those votes which fall on electable candidates are valid. The electoral process is the same. I would ask the author, Mr Mag. Kogler to start with the name call. Mrs Edith Haller will replace him in due course. Please, Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3428	Have all the members of the National Council been called? – This is obviously the case. That concludes the vote. The officials responsible for this will now take the vote again. The sitting was suspended until the outcome of the vote. (The sitting was suspended at 1.31 p.m. and resumed at 1.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3461	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the interrupted session and may announce the outcome of the election in the function of the Second President of the National Council as follows. In turn, 183 votes were cast, 155 of them valid. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 78 votes. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn 93 votes in favour, and Mrs Lichtenberger 33 votes in favour. This means that Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn was elected Second President of the National Council. [[We welcome the liberals, the ÖVP and the SPÖ representatives.]] [[Other votes were taken on the following Members: Dr. Pilz: 1, DDr. Niederweiser: 1, Dr. Ofner: 2, Dr. Khol: 10, Mag. Schweitzer: 6, Dr. Partik-Pablé: 1, Kiss: 2, MMag. Dr. Petrovic: 4, Pistotnig: 1, Dr. Povysil: 1.]] I ask Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn, whether he's taking the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3508	Yes, I do! I accept the choice with joy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3524	Deputies! Then I would like to congratulate you on your election and ask how our tradition is to take place on the Bureau. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn takes place at the Bureau.]] Election of the Third President
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3557	We are continuing to discuss the agenda and are now going to the third President's election. The proposed election, which was referred to here, is to Mr Dr. Andreas Khol. The choice shall be made in accordance with the same rules of business. I do not think I need to repeat these provisions once again. The election process is also the same as before. I would ask the author, Mrs Annemarie Reitsmer, to begin with the name call. As in the first election, Mr Jakob Auerso will be kind to replace Mrs Reitsamer in the name call. Some colleagues have asked whether the name call cannot be dealt with more fluently. To that end, I say: This depends on the smoothness of the vote, because it is not possible to read the names more quickly than the votes are cast. Please, Mrs Reitsamer.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3606	I thank the scribes. The name call is over. Did the callers give their votes, and have all been called above all? – This seems to be the case. I hereby declare the vote terminated. I ask again to ensure that the votes are counted. To that end, I am briefly interrupting the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3644	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election as follows: 182 votes were cast. Of which 181 votes were valid; pardon, I correct myself: 161 votes were valid. Therefore, the absolute majority of valid votes are 81 votes. There were 139 votes in favour of Mr Dr. Khol. [[General condolences.]] To Mrs Brinek 12 votes in favour, the remaining votes against other Members. [[The remaining votes were for the Members: Mag. Dr. Fekter: 2, Dkfm. Dr. Puttinger: 1, Mag. Molterer: 1, Dr. Lichtenberger: 1, Edellinger: 1, MMag. Dr. Petrovic: 1, Gehrer: 1, Grabner: 1, Dr. Schussel: 1.]] Mr. Dr. Khol has thus been elected Third President of the National Council. I'm asking him to take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3695	With joy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3710	I would like to congratulate you on the election, and I would also like to ask you to come to the Bureau. [[General condolences.]] [[President Dr. Khol will sit in the Bureau.]] [[Abg. May. Mr Stoisits: Mr President! Does Mr President Prince-in-Office manage his business?]] ==References== Agenda item ended. 3rd. Point Choice of Writers and Folders
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3755	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. This is the choice of the authors and folders. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose that this election should not be made by elections and polls, but by acclaiming by standing up from the seats. Is there any objection to this? - That's not the case. Then I'll do that. In connection with the choice of the authors and folders, I have the following proposal: Deputies may be elected as scribes to Jakob Auer, ÖVP; Edith Haller, Freeman; Ludmilla Perfuss, Social Democrats; Annemarie Reitsamer, Social Democrats; and Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Freeman. To folders, MEPs Dieter Brosz of the Greens, Helmut Dietachmayr of the Social Democrats, Dr. Martin Graf of the Liberals and Ridi Steibl of the People's Party are proposed. That's what the election proposal is. I do not have any other proposals. That is why I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. . I note that the vote has been adopted unanimously. Is there one of the chosen or one who does not accept the choice? - That's not the case. The aforementioned ones are elected, and the choice of the authors and folders is carried out. 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3876	4. The item on our agenda is the election of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be laid down that the number of members of the main committee shall be fixed by decision of the National Council. The election of the members of the main committee is based on electoral lists, with as many of the electorate being elected from each electoral list as it corresponds to the ratio of the number of Members who have subdivided the individual lists, compared to the total number of members of the National Council. The order of the electoral proposal is then crucial for the election. For the main committee, it is proposed that it should consist of 28 members. Is there any objection to fixing the number of members of the main committee by 28? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. According to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on each of the clubs the following numbers of members: on the SPÖ Club ten members, on the eight members of the Liberals, on the ÖVP club eight members, on the Green Club two members. For the purposes of the Rules of Procedure, all parliamentary groups have submitted the lists for the members of the main committee. On the basis of these lists and on the basis of the above-mentioned system, this means that the following members of the National Council have been appointed as members of the main committee: from the SPÖ Club: Dr. Dieter Antoni, Sophie Bauer, Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Heinz Fischer, Arnold Grabner, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Dr. Peter Kostelka, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Annemarie Reitsamer and Peter Schieder ; of the club of the liberals: May. Herbert Haupt, Reinhard Gaugg, Hans Müller, Wolfgang Jung, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann and Ing. Gerhard Fallent ; of the Austrian People's Party Club: Dr. Gerhart Bruckmann, Karl Donabauer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein, Dr. Andreas Khol, Mag. Helmut Kukacka, Georg Schwarzenberger, Dr. Michael Spindelegger and Mag. Dr. Josef Drinkl ; from the Green Club: MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and Dr. Evelin Lichtenberger. With this communication to the plenary, the election of the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure was carried out. ==References== Agenda item. 5. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4119	==References== The item on the agenda concerns the election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. This committee consists of a total of 26 members appointed equally by the National Council and the Federal Council. That is why half of the members of the National Council are in favour of the National Council, 13 of which are then added to 13 replacement members. In the Presidential Conference, it was agreed that by these 13 members, because the application of the d’Hondtsch system presents certain difficulties, five members of the SPÖ are proposed, three of the liberals, four of the ÖVP and one member of the Greens. I have the following constituency proposals: As members: from the SPÖ Club: Kurt Eder, Marianne Hagenhofer, Dr. Peter Kostelka, Anton Leikam and DDr. Erwin Niederwieser ; of the club of the liberals: May. Gilbert Trattner, Hermann Böhacker and Mag. Reinhard Firlinger ; of the ÖVP Club: Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Johannes Schweisgut, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll and Dr. Christof Zernatto ; from the Green Club: Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. As replacement members: from the SPÖ Club: Anna Huber, Ing. Erwin Kaipel, Manfred Lackner, Rudolf Parnigoni and Emmerich Schwemmlein ; of the club of the liberals: Harald Fischl, Edith Haller and Reinhard Gaugg; of the ÖVP Club: Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Ernst Fink, Johann Kurzbauer and Mag. Franz Steindl ; from the Green Club: May. Werner Kogler. These proposals are available. Are there any other proposals? - That's not the case. Are there any objections to these proposals? – That is not the case either. Ladies and gentlemen are then elected unanimously as members of the Standing Committee, as I described it earlier. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-10-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4361	I can inform the House of a letter from the Federal Chancellor which he addressed to the President of the National Council, with the following wording: "I am honoured to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with resolution of 5. October 1999, GZ. 300,000/1-BEV/99, held at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 5 May. In October 1999, the Federal Government adopted a decision and removed the Federal Government and the State Secretary from office in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act. At the same time, under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me and the other members of the Federal Government with the continuation of the administration and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted State Secretary Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, State Secretary Dr. Peter Wittmann and State Secretary Dr. Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer with the further exercise of their functions. Best regards Viktor Klima" I would ask you to take note of this letter. At today's meeting of the National Council, requests 1/A to 16/A and questions 1/J to 3/J were received. Before I close this meeting, I announce that after the end of this meeting, the main committee will be in local VI immediately. We have just decided on the members of the main committee. I have also been asked to inform you that 15 minutes after the end of this meeting, i.e. at 2.40 p.m., a guided tour will be offered to all the new members of this House, with the upper Vestibüll meeting being planned. That's what we've done with the agenda. I would like a good cooperation, including with the staff of the House. I conclude the constituent meeting of the National Council.
