ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2348	I'll open the 161. Meeting of the National Council. The following Members are reported as prevented: Aumayr, Böhacker, Mag. Chief, Dr. Haider, Motter, Wenitsch, Kröll, Tichy-Schreider, Gatterer, Mag. Frieser, Platter, Gradwohl, Heinzl, Dr. Doppelmüller and Dr. Pumberger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2379	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following messages: Federal Minister for Science and Transport Dr. Caspar One is represented by Mr Rudolf Edlinger. Mr. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel is appointed by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Wilhelm Molterer. Question Time
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2400	We are starting now – at 10.35 a.m. – with the call for questions on Question Time. However, I would draw attention to the fact that it will not be an hour since only one question is left out of the previous Question Time. After that – and this is the reason why the bells are ringing on – we will then vote on the design of today's session: Time limit, summaries et cetera, which is available for applications. Federal Ministry of Finance
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2427	The question still to be asked is a question by Mr Johann Maier to the Federal Minister for Finance. I ask Mr Maier to formulate his question. It will be answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2443	Mr State Secretary! Product piracy is an ever-increasing problem in Europe. Hundreds of thousands of jobs are under threat. The States are avoiding tax revenue at billions. My question is: 238/M What to do Are you opposed to "product piracy", i.e. against the import of counterfeit brand products from third countries to the detriment of consumers and the Austrian economy?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2470	Please, Mr. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2485	Thank you, Mr President. – Deputies! It is quite right that the product piracy causes many damage: on the one hand, the consumer, who seems to buy too expensive, on the other hand, for the companies that cannot sell innovative products in the same way. It is not a fair competition, and it ultimately also causes damage to the labour market. The Federal Ministry of Finance, in particular the customs within our home, has therefore significantly increased its efforts in the fight against this piracy in the last three years. At the heart of our efforts are the better training of our institutions, especially the customs authorities, and at the same time the creation of an information centre on piracy for the economy. As far as the companies concerned are aware, as soon as we know which companies are affected, they will be given information on how they can better protect their trademark rights. We also receive information from the companies. In the meantime, the establishment of the data network enables all Austrian customs offices to come to the necessary information within a few seconds in the event of suspicions in order to detect such piracy. However, these measures have already led to significant successes in the fight against piracy. In October and November 1998 alone, imports of such counterfeit items were prevented in 33 cases and these articles were seized. The range of falsifications from clothing to watches and sound carriers, especially CDs, to spare parts for airplanes, from which it can be seen that people's bodies and lives can also be threatened by this product piracy. Finally, the customs administration's efforts have led Austrian customs authorities to discover the largest case of piracy in Europe until then. It was possible to ensure 120 000 extortion of CDs. However, we are also working on the legal basis, on the further development of the legal basis for combating piracy and have drawn up a draft legislation on this subject for the implementation of a corresponding EU directive. This will be reviewed shortly. We are also working on an information exchange system across Europe. The prototype of this information system is already completed under the title "Multimedia System for Customs" and is in the test phase.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2513	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. – An additional question? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2528	Mr State Secretary! What consequences must consumers expect to acquire a counterfeit product that is well-belief?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2543	Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2559	These consumers must not, of course, expect any consequences. They already have the damage that they have bought a product that is not real to carry out. They will at best be made aware of this. But they have no further harm to fear.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2574	Additional question? – Mr Dkfm. Bauer, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2589	Mr State Secretary! Who, then, are your knowledge according to the main recipients or resellers of these product counterfeits that are imported or smuggled into Austria? But you won't know that when you're smuggled.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2605	Please, Mr. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2620	We know that most counterfeit products come from Eastern countries, in particular from the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Romania, Bulgaria, where Russia, as evidenced by international observations, is quite a focus. But there are also a lot of goods of this kind from the Asian area. It's known to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2635	Additional question? – Mr Dr Kier, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2662	Mr State Secretary! We have heard the successes of the Austrian Customs Union and so on. But this is a European problem, i.e. an EU problem. Are there studies or estimates across the EU as to the quantitative impact of the adverse effects?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2677	Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2693	Deputies! What we know is that worldwide product counterfeiting results in a total damage amounting to USD 180 billion a year, i.e. 2 100 billion schilling, almost equivalent to the size of our gross national product. I do not have any estimates of the Austrian market, or of what your question was, of the European market.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2708	Thank you. – I do not have any further requests for additional questions. That concludes Question Time. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2735	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2794	Members Dr. Kier and Comrades have requested the written question 5823/J by Dr. Kier, Schaffenrath and partners to Mrs. Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the misstart for "NEW START"; Debakel of large-coalition employment policy due to years of concealment of structural defects in the labour market service is to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be answered at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 4887/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2818	I would also like to say that I wish to have a brief debate on the 4887/AB reply to Question No 5505/J by Mr Dr Dr. Mr Gabriela Moser and his comrades on initiatives against the completion of nuclear power plants by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. As for today's sitting, as has just been announced, the urgent debate on a written question was scheduled, the short debate will take place after the end of the negotiations on the urgent question. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2842	I would also like to say that Mr Krüger has asked the Constitutional Committee to report to the Government Template 1522 of the Supplements to a Federal Act amending the Cable and Satellite Broadcasting Law, a period of 30 years. ==References== The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Mr Stadler asked the Constitutional Committee to report on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler concerning the abolition of political pension and settlement privileges until 23. ==References====External links== This request will also be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Finally, I say that Mr Magistrate. Helmut Peter requested the Economic Committee to report to it on the application 816/A concerning the commercial regulation for a period of until 19. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States This request will also be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Request for a debate on the declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior on current Kurdish activities in Austria
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2880	I declare that there is a desire for § 81 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate on the statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior on current Kurdish activities in Austria. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2901	After discussions in the Presidential Conference, the debate on this statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior will take place together with the debate on points 2 to 4. It is also proposed that the debate on points 5 to 12 and 14 to 19 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2928	Let's go into the agenda. Members Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol, Dr. Kier and Dr. Van der Bellen have requested that the debate on all items of the agenda be decided on a day-block time of nine "Vienna hours" so that the following speeches can be made: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. This decision requires a two-thirds majority. I therefore come to the vote because I assume that there are objections to this time limit. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, Dr. Kier and Dr. Van der Bellen's request for a sign. – This is accepted in the presence of the quorum with the required two-thirds majority. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior according to § 19 para. 2 GOG on current Kurdish activities in Austria 2. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report of the Federal Government (III-156 of the Supplements) on internal security in Austria (1997 Security Report) (1590 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Law on the Civil Service Assistance (1591 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 965/A (E) by Dr Helene Partik-Pablé and Comrades on developments in foreign policy (1601 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3012	I can now give the Federal Minister for the Interior the floor to make his statement within the meaning of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3033	Mr President. High house! ==References====External links== On 1 February 1999, he was arrested by a Turkish Special Commando in Kenya by the Kurdish PKK, Abdullah Öcalan. This has led Europe-wide to activities, rallys, violent outpourings and occupation actions by members of the Kurdish People's Group and PKK supporters. Austria is also affected by these operations. I take this situation on the occasion of giving the Austrian Parliament and the public an overview of the events and the security arrangements of the executive, as well as informing them of joint actions and strategies of the European Union. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the history of the Second Republic, Austria has always pursued a policy on internal security, which puts the common before the separation, the measure before provocation, de-escalation before escalation and the balance of interests ahead of the point of interest. The search for non-violent conflict settlements has provided our country with an extremely high level of security and stability. The Austrian policy of compensation and the role of intermediaries in international conflicts has strengthened the reputation and position of our country in the international community. Austria gives oppressed groups the opportunity to intervene in civilised and non-violent form for peaceful solutions to their problem. The Austrian Government does not accept that civil war-like actions are being moved to Austria and carried out on our territory. The Austrian Constitution guarantees the right to freedom of assembly, but the exercise of this right is only possible as long as no threat to public security or criminal acts cannot be feared. It must be clear to all those acting – and I would like to stress this – that a democratic rule of law is obliged to stop acts of violence in its territory and to punish those who violate the laws with the principles of the rule of law on interests and punishment. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's policy towards the Kurdish People's Group is also based on these principles. In Austria, about 40,000 people are currently living in Kurdish descent. There are a number of Kurdish clubs. The PKK and the ERNK, a political branch of the PKK, are neither registered as associations nor parties in Austria. However, the security authorities assume that some 400 activists and some 4,000 sympathizers of the PKK are to be attributed in Austria. International examples have shown that parts of the PKK keep setting up terrorist and violent acts. Therefore, activities and initiatives attributed to the PKK have been observed in Austria by the security authorities and a abandonment of the rule of law and freedom of violence has always been pursued and suspected by means of the law at law. So far, Austria has not declared a ban on the Kurdish workers' party and its political wing. This has different reasons. A general ban, such as in Germany, or a ban on sub-organisations, such as in France, would, according to the Austrian State Protection, lead to a deportation of PKK activists into the underground. This would make it difficult to observe the structures. According to the State Police estimates and international experience, a ban could bring about further radicalisation or violent rallys. In addition, there is a risk that a ban would result in a change of name and re-establishment or a deviation to new associations or sub-organisations. I am therefore convinced that the Austrian path of peaceful political debate has so far saved outrageous acts of violence from our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also continued this strategy with the occupations and rallys over the last few days. I would like to take the opportunity to express my express thanks to the Austrian executive for their course. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Those colleagues who have been exposed to a great mental and physical burden in these days have responded in an exemplary way and with the necessary sensitivity. The efforts were exemplary for the work of the police and the Gendarmerie through the excellent cooperation and rapid coordination of all services. Fire brigade and rescue proved to be an extremely reliable partner of the executive in these days. High house! ==References====External links== On 1 February, Kurdish activists occupied the Greek Embassy in Vienna and later the Kenyan Embassy. These occupation actions were part of a Europe-wide coordinated protest strategy of members of the Kurdish People's Group living in each country. At that time, there was no constant monitoring of the two missions, but only regular monitoring of the objects in the course of strip services. According to the state of information of the security authorities at that time, a concrete threat was not expected, and the two embassies themselves did not have their own permanent protection of property and persons. Like Austria, the European Union states were unprepared for the PKK leaders, as the safety authorities were not aware of their place of residence or the situation in Kenya. In advance, Austria and all other European countries did not receive the necessary information to take appropriate security measures. However, due to its tight organisational structure and its good communication channels, the PKK succeeded in informing its activists about the movement of the PKK leader to Turkey in a relatively short time and in initiating European-accredited protest actions. After 41 Kurdish activists had occupied the Greek message, in which five persons were present at that time, including the ambassador, and 24 were violently invaded into the Kenyan Embassy, I immediately had a first analysis of the risk situation carried out. Following the consultation of the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister, a staff was also set up in the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time, I was in constant contact with the Federal Minister for Justice and with the German Minister for the Interior, who is currently chairing the European Council for Justice and Home Affairs. It was necessary to obtain rapid information on occupations and rallys in other European countries in order to have a political assessment of the events. The judicial authorities were informed at the same time of all steps taken by the security authorities and involved in the decisions of the Staff. On the basis of the outcome of the risk analysis and of the request of the Greek authorities to avoid the presence of embassies, the staff has chosen a strategy for the non-violent and peaceful termination of the embassies. By means of telephone negotiations and on-site negotiations, conducted by the Director-General for Public Security Michael Sika, finally succeeded in moving the occupyors to work. My thanks also apply to the support of the Greenman, Peter Pilz. At every stage of the negotiations, it was made clear to the activists that the escalation-free termination of their actions can only be accompanied by a determination and review of their identity, their foreign police status and a referral to justice. The security authorities immediately sent a statement of the facts to the public prosecutor and, after termination of the embassy, reimbursed notice on grounds of suspicion of house peace, property damage and the need. After the beginning of Kurdish activities, extensive protection and security measures for numerous objects and possible action targets for protest actions and attacks were included and extended. These protective measures are constantly being adapted to the current threat situation, because we are aware of the fact that, due to certain events abroad, we are not excluded from the situation, but also from individual actions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Compared to the situation in Germany, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Greece and other countries, Austria was affected in a weaker form by the Kurdish protest measures. However, further unannounced protests, such as in Klagenfurt, in the premises of ÖVP and SPÖ State Party headquarters in Linz, in the ORF Landesstudio Linz, in the SPÖ headquarters in Vienna, in the Landesbeschäftsstelle in Graz, and in the United Nations site in Vienna, came to an end. Some public institutions have also been given protest resolutions. Almost all actions went without incidents and were able to end peacefully. For security reasons, security forces have always been gathered on site according to the situation. At the UN-City protest rally, the United Nations security forces were pushed aside by the body of the demonstrators. An EBT official present in front of the building suffered injuries, convulsions and beatings by the invading activists. A corresponding announcement was received to the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the night of Tuesday on Wednesday this week a fire attack on the Islamic cultural center in Graz was carried out. Four suspects were arrested by the police immediately after the attack. The suspected perpetrators are Turkish citizens, probably Kurdish descent. The authorities assume a connection with Kurdish activities over the last few days. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the use of violence by Kurds and PKK adherents demonstrating in Austria has so far been lower than in other European countries, I note again clearly and clearly: The rule of law must not be left in Austria! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] All violations of law must – and they will – be sanctioned and prosecuted by the competent authorities. Austria does not tolerate violent conflicts, regardless of whom or from which motive they are committed. I therefore call on everyone not to leave the path of peaceful conflict and conflict resolution. In the future, security authorities will continue to strive to end conflicts without unnecessary use of force, but will not leave any doubt as to legal sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== The Austrian approach with the EU and Schengen partners was taken on February. Both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor held a variety of talks with European governments. In addition, a high level of civil servants was established at the end of the afternoon with the relevant senior officials of other EU Member States, in particular from the late afternoon hours of the same day. With Interpol there was an ongoing exchange of information. Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be acknowledged, however, that the European police systems, which have been proven and often rightly praised, have initially failed in relation to the PKK network. They were too cumbersome and too efficient at the beginning of the actions. This will lead to consequences across Europe, but also in Austria. In any case, it has been shown that an institutional-operative network is missing, which can be activated immediately during such actions and events and can constantly exchange information in a permanent connection. I believe that EUROPOL offers itself as such an instrument of constant contact and connection between police organizations for the future. In the light of EU cooperation, however, particularly critical, ladies and gentlemen, Greece's position and procedure must be assessed. Over 14 days, Greece has failed to inform the Schengen and EU partners of the presence of Öcalans in Greece or in its message in Kenya. If security considerations have at first been decisive, it is not understandable why Greece did not inform its partners immediately after the arrest of Öcalan by Turkish representatives in Kenya. This information would have been from Greek on the late evening of the 15th century. They could have responded in a timely and better manner. Ladies and gentlemen! The PKK leadership is currently calling on its supporters to refrain from violence outside Turkey. However, a long-term forecast of further behaviour cannot be concluded. At the end of the last week, I therefore agreed with the German Minister for the Interior Schily to convene a short-term meeting of the ministers of the interior of those states affected by outrages and acts of violence. The aim of this meeting, which took place in Bonn on Tuesday, was to exchange views on the current risk situation in the individual states, exchange of information from the security authorities and coordination of forthcoming police measures and to intensify the exchange of information. It is important for violent perpetrators to expect European states to carry out concerted police operations against them at any time. All the ministerial colleagues present agreed in this important discussion that, despite the temporary calming of the situation, Europe's protests are still to be expected. I hope that this meeting has helped to ensure that future actions can be met by faster political and administrative contact. High house! Our responsibility for Austria and Europe, however, also includes the call for moderation, non-violence and respect for human rights by all parties to the conflict. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We must therefore call on those responsible in Turkey to guarantee Abdullah Öcalan a fair trial corresponding to European rule of law before an independent court. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Turkish authorities have been invited to allow international observers to do so. The European Union also expects Abdullah Öcalan to be treated correctly by the Turkish authorities and to guarantee its physical integrity. In addition, we must demand that Turkey in general abolish the death penalty. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would also like to remind you that the media staging by Turkey about the arrest and preparation of the court hearing against Öcalan does not help to calm down the situation, but is perceived by the Kurds as provocation and can lay the ground for further violence. It is therefore necessary to convince Turkey in the dialogue that a more open attitude to the political solution of the Kurdish question does not call into question the respect for territorial integrity and the condemnation of terrorism. The efforts of the Kurds in Turkey to articulate their cultural identity freely, to use their language in courts and administrative authorities and to stop school teaching in their language seems to me absolutely right and legitimate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! As Minister of the Interior, I have the task of ensuring safety in Austria as much as possible. The way in which my authorities deal with the events of the last week has shown that we have been successful in ensuring the maintenance of security in Austria so far. In the course of the process of the security authorities, I become a way of the middle with the Kurds operating in Austria. However, I am also aware that this path can be risky in itself. It is only in the medium term that it will be possible to continue this successful access in the future. We must also be aware, however, that the development of the dispute in Austria is directly dependent on international relations. The conflicts in the countries of the world have a direct impact on Austria, whether through refugees seeking asylum, or through groups seeking to implement the political conflict in their countries of origin in Europe. It is understandable that foreign citizens continue to express their opinion on the political processes in their former homeland, continue to have contact with their friends and families in their old homeland. But we strongly reject the introduction of conflicts to Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Political demands are to be articulated peacefully and in accordance with the rules of the Western democracies. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] All parliamentary and social forces within the European Union should today, more than ever, strive to act more strongly on the countries in the Middle East where Kurds live, in order to move them to a peaceful political solution to the Kurdish question. The violation of human rights is not an internal matter of a state, but also an obligation on the international community to insist on respect for human rights and dignity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Violence and terror may occur in the 20th century. In the 19th century, there was no means of resolving conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3237	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. On points 2 to 4, no oral reporting has been required, so that we can start immediately with the debate which is being carried out on points 1 to 4 below one. I shall be the first speaker to give Mr Mag. Stadler the word with a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3265	Mr President. In the meantime, the Presidency has changed its praises. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's bad!]] What do you mean, that's bad? Look, we will not take note of this Party Presidency! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] We will defend ourselves, Mr. Arbitrator. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Faith You're me! We will not accept that. [[Abg. Leikam: This is humane!]] We're not going to be treated like wet fetters here. We do not allow votes to be misused. We do not allow Mr Khol to threaten President, as he did yesterday in the speech on the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen. "Think at the head!", he threatened him. – We do not allow that to happen, Mr. Arbitrator. [[Abg. Smolle: On the matter!]] I can't. We will defend democracy from here as long as we can and as long as we cannot take the word away. If we take the word, we will still be able to take it elsewhere. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will inform the people about the things that are happening here. Parliament will not abolish you, your group. Not you, you're parliamentarians! – Well, you do it with voting manipulations, time limit, speech and threats, as did Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You won't abolish it, even if you still make such efforts!]] These are your methods, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now it's up to you. Federal Minister! You do not have to represent what your predecessor has represented in politics. I only regret that you continue this policy in one point. At that time, when the Federal Republic of Germany banned the PKK and all its sub-organisations as terrorist organizations – as in the meantime courts in Austria –... – I mean judicial justice. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you think justice or free justice?]] At that time, a democratic government in the Federal Republic of Germany banned the PKK and its sub-organisations, as did France, which is also an old democracy. At the time, we called for the ban on PKKs and their sub-organisations for Austria. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: When you speak of democracy...!]] – The "Obergscheite", which is responsible for democracy, with a mandate he has stolen, with which he has established a new party with the support of Deputies Fischer, stirs up about democracy, but does the wall to a party that yesterday has made the electoral gap. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] This is not a truly credible witness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smolle: On the matter!]] Federal Minister! At the time, we called for the PKK to be banned for Austria, not because we believed that it would be possible to prevent the PKK's terrorism in Austria in the long term, but because the PKK's political leadership then declared the Federal Republic of Germany a war opponent number two behind Turkey, ladies and gentlemen. A ban on the PKK would have been an act of international solidarity in a security Europe, which you too, Federal Minister, spoke of. That is why we still believe that it would have been right if the rule of law had been declared from the very beginning to terrorist organizations: Not with us! Instead, we have found that the PKK and its sub-organisations have moved their entire infrastructure and logistics from Germany to Austria. This is not a very reassuring state, Minister of State. I am not happy that the ERNK, the PKK's political arm, has its central office in Vienna. I am not happy about this, and, Mr Federal Minister, I would not be happy to see the international secretary of the SPÖ, Dr. Karl Schramek, taking part in this opening of the office. As a social democrat, I would not be happy if some of the SPÖ's regional offices were to have the ERNK or PKK offices, and there were close links between the socialist youth and the PKK, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! ==References====External links== May the PKK is constantly marching with Öcalan portraits and with flags of the PKK and the comrades from the stage of the town hall in Vienna? [[Abg. Smolle: How between Haider and Gaddafi!]] – I wouldn't be happy about that. I believe that these close links between the Socialists and the Socialists and the PKK are at least questionable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know why? – One could say: Yes, one is linked to the old Kreisky policy in connection with the PLO. This is a position that is always represented in the SPÖ. But, ladies and gentlemen, Federal Minister, the PKK represents only a tiny segment – you know that very well – of the Kurdish people. The Kurdish people do not place any emphasis on having a stand-alone claim by the PKK, but there are many other democratic Kurd organisations that want nothing to do with the PKK's terror. I wonder why the SPÖ only keeps in touch with the PKK, with an old Stalinist, Marxist organization. That is not reasonable, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It would be more reasonable to seek and promote those forces that prefer democratic means, to do away with violence from the outset, and not to have declared a democratic neighboring state like Germany, to which we have best relations, number two, ladies and gentlemen. This is, I believe, the background to the current government policy towards the PKK. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Their heads of state, like Mr Hochmair, who has now resigned, have also been seen together with PKK demonstrators. I got photos of it, they sent me people. People send such things to me because they are amazed when they see that their own representatives, of which one believes that they are dealing with foreign organizations in a democratic mind, suddenly appear together at demonstrations in Linz like Mr Hochmair. I say it again: At the first May gatherings of the Social Democrats in Vienna, PKK people are always present, always with Öcalan images and always with PKK flags. That is why your policy, Mr Federal Minister, is somewhat unbelievable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] May I interrupt your conference briefly, or would you like to contribute to the investigation? [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl talks to the government bank. Arbitrator.]] Then you can say it loud. You now have the opportunity to do so. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't say anything!]] - You don't say anything about it, please. Then you will understand that I would like to take advantage of the attention of the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I thought you were talking to us!]] Federal Minister! What you have explained, namely that the safety bodies – perhaps under your leadership – have always exercised the supervision of the PKK, is not true. I have a file note that happens to concern my family and me when we had to be monitored for a while because of the PKK. It is to be read that the Federal Minister, then Caspar One, had given the instruction that safety consequences should no longer be drawn because of the ERNK. Safety consequences are not necessary until further attacks can be brought back to this office, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – That was his favorite transition: the terrorists of Ebergassing and the PKK. They enjoyed the special protection of the former Minister of the Interior. Federal Minister! Your colleague, Mr Michalek, will also have to listen to this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] It did not remain with house peace break, damage and necessity. There was hostage in the game. We also have to say clearly to the terrorists who do not comply with our legal order that they will be confronted with deportation and deportation, for that is the only thing that really frightens these people. Otherwise, it does not frighten our rule of law as long as the pattern of social democracy is given. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP also has to carry its mercury. It now acts as if it had nothing to do with the PKK – that's true, it doesn't have as much to do with it as the Social Democrats do – but now she is already trying to get the Turks out in the newspaper "Hürriyet" in Turkey, if she is there, for example, in an advertisement, set up by the ÖVP Vienna: Dear compatriots! – ÖVP Vienna! – At the end of Ramadan we wish everything good, happiness and success. The ÖVP Vienna. If you have any questions, social law, labour law, please report to the ÖVP citizen service. There's no such thing for Vienna. But the newspaper "Hürriyet" is advertised. In the "Hürriyet" the ÖVP, that ÖVP, who claims to have nothing to do with it, is also trying to.... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Which party?]] It contains a resolution which, although it does not place it here in the House, only applies to its own club, and the SPÖ states in the resolution that, despite the close and decades-long relationship between parts of the SPÖ and the Kurdish organizations and the Central Bank, the PKK is meant to do the following:... we are based on the objective and strict law and only on the law of the Minister of the Interior. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need to hold this in a party resolution, or are you already so far as the ÖVP Club needs to give you a resolution? - I don't think so. As far as I know, you don't need that. I think that this is simply the reminder of itself, because parts of the ÖVP now believe that they must be hallowable by being particularly nice and friendly to the PKK. Government policy towards the Kurds is inconclusive. Instead of saying clearly that Turkey's minority policy is not accepted, a terrorist organisation is being used to discredit its own approach in Turkey. That's the problem. On the one hand, Turkey cannot be given advice if, on the other hand, it is best to have relations with terrorists. If you distance yourself from terrorists, then you can They also say to Turkey that a reasonable minority policy would have to look at what would be necessary in relation to Kurds, because this people has suffered for decades because of the arbitrary division of the country by the victory powers of the First World War. The Kurds' right of self-determination is doubtful, but please do not impose it with terrorists. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What about the speaking time?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3540	I call Mr Leikam. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3574	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The summary of agenda items 2 to 4, above all, of the topicality of the Kurd protests in Austria and the related statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior, a little messing up this part of the security debate. It is therefore certainly not possible to discuss a very successful report, namely the safety report, in the usual, orderly form, without having to make a few comments on other issues. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I really want to respect the report he has presented to Parliament by the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this respect and in this recognition, I also include the work of the executive, which has been faced with a difficult situation in the last few days and which has solved the problem of the occupations of the embassies in Austria, which has solved non-violent and non-violently. That's my recognition, Minister of State! However, my recognition also includes all the officials employed. [[Congratulations to the SPÖ and to Mr Dr. Khol and Mr Kiss.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be discussing the matter of Kurdish problems, the PKK and the like in the international context. But, ladies and gentlemen, what I noticed during the Federal Minister's statement and what I should like to think was the behaviour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. When, for example, the Federal Minister read the passage that he was really glad that these problems could be solved conflict-free and non-violently, there was applause from four political groups, but there was no direction in the blues. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Have you forgotten the fire attack? That wasn't...!]] No rain on the blues! When the Federal Minister said that the solution of these problems should be in accordance with the principle of the rule of law of Austria, there were congratulations with four political groups, but no suggestions on the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Ask your comrades in Graz!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's to think, and I also know why you don't give a chance here. If a party, such as the Freedom Party, also uses violence in the implementation of its political goals, as she did in the popular desire "Austria first" – here is a witness – this gives reason to think. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What?]] [[Abg. Madl: What?]] On the comment "If we do so, there will undoubtedly be violent conflicts," said your partyobmann: That's what we're expecting, but that's what we've got to do. [[Abg. May. Stadler: such a fool! You don't know what you're trying to do. Sit down!]] Those who seek such practices to achieve the political objectives cannot speak of democratic action here. This can't happen if there is no non-violent action in this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You've really shown your true face in the last few hours. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sit down! Five! I don't know.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals]] You know what I'm sorry about? . I regret that the Austrian population cannot experience all that has been done on your part here in connection with the declaration made by the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Report sick!]] The Austrian public should really know where to go in the future in this Republic: either the matter, the non-violent and the non-conflict solution or the way you go, namely by force to want to reach your political goal, ladies and gentlemen. We strongly reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Ask your comrades... in Graz!]] Mr. Dr. Ofner! What is concerned is that, in particular, you, as in and for yourself, very reasonable Members in the ranks of the liberals, are also talking about "reddened justice". [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes?- Oh, my God!]] They themselves were once Minister of Justice. Damned justice! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What? You're dreaming!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you have fever, or what?]] This is the argument used constantly by the liberals in the last few days. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last country elections in Carinthia, there was a countryman of the Freemans. Do you know what he said? – At the height of your success you have lost your last spark. – This is what he meant by your group, your party chairman. And he left your party. Practice in these days You here in this House have the same procedure again. You have no cause, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's what goes on: "You don't have a cause"?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the security report and security policy in our country. I also turn back... – Well, the swindle was that... [[Abg. May. Stadler: I would say no-go! Elector Leikam!]] I would prefer not to shout so loud, because we all remember very well the fallen votes and the re-election in the election of the President of the Court of Auditors in this House. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Vulnerator!]] We were not involved in this. That's what you've done perfectly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You should not throw stones when you sit in the glass house, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] But back to security policy: I turn to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In their ranks is a Secretary-General who has at least as "net", "love" words left for the Austrian police as "Scherzkeks", "Idiots", "Full Case", "They are a fool". – Freedom security policy! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... talk about the debate!]] I could imagine that your security spokesperson, Mrs Partik-Pablé, who has been pushed out by your Mr Klubobmann today as the first speaker, is speaking here and is publicly apologizing to the police and to the executive for the comments of your Secretary-General. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's incredible! "Scherzkeks", "Idiots", "Full Case", "Trottel" are, from the point of view of the liberals, those officials who have to take care of security in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. I have to tell you: To keep up with all that you're giving of yourself, you need a real suction, as we call it in Carinthia. Otherwise, it is no longer possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have fever! You're in bed! Leikam in the Delirium!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Once again and with joy, we can see that the security policy in our country has already been very successful since 1993. There are constantly declining figures in the development of crime – for the first time far below 500 000 – and at the same time constantly increasing levels of education. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Leikam, you're not doing well with Carinthia!]] The executive does excellent work. Austria is also one of the safest countries in the world, as stated in the 1997 Security Report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] The Austrian people, ladies and gentlemen, have a right to safety. It has a right to protection against crime, and it has a right to protection from violence. It is a central concern for us that we also meet these needs of the Austrian population through our security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore have to thank all around 33 000 officials for the services they provide for Austrian security. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must have surveys!]] That's a great performance. This is a good work of the Austrian executive. As a political person in this country, we have the framework to create so that our executive can work well. We have been doing this continuously since the 1990s, and we want to continue this good work in the future in order to give our executive the means it needs to ensure the safety of Austria in the coming years and decades.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3935	Mr Mag. Stadler! During the speech of Mr Leikam, you used the term "fathom" several times at his address. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has been more than blurred! I'll repeat that!]] - Now again. That confirms that. I give you a call for order for this behavior – and please do not thank you for it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you! I'd like to accept that!]] There are two words for an actual correction, one by Mr Dr. Ofner, the second by Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. I call both and ask you to start each case with the one you want to correct. First, Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e3987	Mr President. High house! I have already recognized the need to be very careful today as a freeman in dealing with his statements of words, and will therefore be very sparse in my actual correction. My immediate previous speaker assumed that I had spoken of "reddish justice". - That's wrong. I have... - No, you said: [[Abg. Leikam: Your group!]] I, the Ofer, who is otherwise a reasonable person,... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now he doesn't know what he said!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] In that I see that you did it deliberately. I have not used the term "reddished justice" and I am opposed to this submission, which Mr Kostelka is so pleased with. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The latter was a mistake!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4069	The next actual correction is sought by Mrs Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4115	High house! Mr Leikam has said that a party such as the liberals who are violently pursuing their political goals. [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] - That's wrong! The liberals have never even considered the use of force in their policies. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It should be assumed that Mr Leikam made this statement because he swims the skins in Carinthia, and I also suspect that he should be drunk because otherwise he could never come to such an expression.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4169	Mrs Gredler has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4212	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior, I say to you, 'Mr Foreign Minister', because I believe you have appeared in the wrong body today. The Kurdish problem and Turkey are basically a foreign policy matter, so we would have liked the Foreign Minister to deliver an opinion before the House. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is true that there have been some events in Austria, but we can only solve the problem by working internationally – not only at the level of the Ministers of the Interior, but in particular at the level of the Foreign Ministers, the Government and the Justice Ministers. That is why I believe that the election on you, Minister Schlögl, has fallen in favour of making a declaration on the occasion that a black minister made a ministerial statement yesterday, and that is why it was not possible to ask a black minister to make a statement today – it had to be a redr one! But I wonder if you will live up to the seriousness of this matter. It is immense that we have not yet been able to talk to the Foreign Minister about this problem. I deeply regret that there is no need for coordination with Parliament, because we are all trying and interested in solving the Kurdish problem in Turkey. These include an attitude of all military operations in Kurdish areas, the possibility of the return of displaced people to their villages – this is a fundamental concern for which we should fight –, a discussion on the granting of autonomy for Kurdish territories while respecting Turkish borders, the granting of democratic rights not only for Turks but also for Kurds, the official recognition of the Kurdish minority, their language and their culture, and, of course, the introduction of religious freedom and pluralism. We should support this politically in the House, and that with the necessary emphasis you, Minister of the Interior – with leave – are not able to do so with your place of business. In our opinion, Austria should act internationally, not only with the requirement that a fair process be guaranteed. All European countries should also demand that Mr Öcalan's process – of course! - international observation, because at least we all have to expect any consequences, and it should also be obvious that those lawyers accredited in Turkey, who are determined by Mr Öcalan or his family, have free access to him, so that they are prevented without the assistance of a lawyer, as is possible in Turkish practice, not just five days, but possibly up to three weeks. We already know that Mr Öcalan is being charged with, among other things, Article 125 – this was also done by a parliamentary colleague from all of us: Leyla Zana. I have visited Leyla Zana in Ankara in prison because I believe it is intolerable for colleagues to be detained for dubious arguments over seven years. I would have liked to see proper solidarity with her. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that we would have been able to install an ad hoc court – as happened for Yugoslavia – by which the problem could simply have been drawn from the affected areas to an international level. And then, I think, fairness would have been preserved. However, we have failed: Italy has failed to make this possible, Germany has failed, and this has also failed the EU Presidency, which Austria held at the time! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This was for those Kurds who are not terroristally active, but simply demand their rights, a great failure during the Austrian Presidency, which cannot be forgiven. In my opinion, we should also have discussions at international level to find out whether a peace conference could not be held in the longer term. At the moment, of course, the groups concerned will not sit at a table, but I believe – and this would be another task of the Foreign Minister – that such exploratory talks should be conducted in order to initiate a peace conference that would enable peace in this region. It was incomprehensible to me why the European Council did not find a common language system until twelve hours after the first embassies in Europe. For the ever-increasing common community Foreign and security policy is an evidence of poverty that it was only possible after twelve hours to respond to it. I believe that there is much to be improved in this regard and, moreover, at such a moment, the Foreign Minister is in demand, and not you, Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, I would like to thank the officials of the executive and the fire brigade, they were quiet and sensible partners in the discussion and dialogue with the ambassadors. It has succeeded in preventing escalation in Austria. However, on the presumption that the Director-General for Public Security or even Mr Pilz has ended the occupations in Austria by himself, I must be surprised, because that would mean that Mr Sika has so much power and competence that he could put an end to the embassies within a quarter of an hour in almost all of Europe, and I do not agree with him with this competence, with permission. The actions were internationally coordinated, because their completion took place within a quarter of an hour! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] It is therefore not really possible to say that we have leased wisdom, but rather the sense of those people who have suddenly noticed that the operations they have initiated in Europe actually hurt their concerns and their allies are all opposed to them. It is a matter of taking hostages and occupying occupations that are not suitable to really help a people to their right. We need other methods! To radicalize young people so that they can light themselves and then be celebrated as heroes is also not the right method to be used, but – on the contrary! – an extremely dangerous method. We want the democratic families within the Kurdish population as allies, with whom we can achieve the goals they have called for, namely that the Kurds within Turkey can live in peace and freedom and use their language freely. With these democratic forces, we are looking for an alliance. And we in this House should try to make this available to the Foreign Minister and not just to you, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4313	Mr Kiss has now come to speak. Voluntary time limit: 13 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4343	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In consultation with my ÖVP colleagues in the Committee on the Interior, who want to discuss this extensive issue here today, I will refer to two topics: firstly, the statement by the Federal Minister on Kurdish issues and the actions of the Kurds in Austria, and then, secondly, of course, how different it might be – on matters of internal security: State police, security police law. With regard to the problem of the Kurds, I feel different from Mrs Gredler of the Liberal Forum. I believe that, since it is incidents in Austria, it is the commitment of the Minister of the Interior to make a statement before Parliament. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Also!]] Yes, it is a commitment from the Minister! And I am convinced, Mrs Gredler, that, if he had not made this statement, he would have been criticized by you because the Minister does not find it worth the effort to inform the Austrian Parliament of these incidents. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser:... both ministers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You didn't listen!]] On behalf of the Austrian People's Party, I say clearly and clearly: The Kurds, like all other peoples in this world, are, of course, entitled to self-determination within the framework of international provisions and conditions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this we stand, that was our position, that is our position, that will remain our position! I do not think that this right of self-determination must be enforced by peaceful means. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That peaceful means are the only way to descale a problematic situation is by itself. But that the activists of the Communist, Terrorist PKK or the ERNK or the ARGK, as has just been referred to by the Minister, have taken other measures in Austria, is not to be tolerated. This condemns the EIA to the sharpest, condemning, I assume, even all the other reasonable democratic forces in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] For we note that Austria has become a home for many Kurds, but also a host country. We expect – and I believe we are in this context in line with the entire Austrian population – that all those who have their home or host rights with us, like all Austrians who live in this country, are bound by Austrian law and thus automatically by the judicial system, the executive and the provisions which the legislator lays down. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The position of the ÖVP is clear and has been repeatedly explained by a number of speakers in the past: Austria must not be the ground for those who brutally stage their internal struggles, their problems, their legitimate concerns, but, of course, their terrorist activities too! All this must not go over stage in Austria, in our homeland, in our country! Austria must not be the scene where Kurds and Turks go on each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] The problem, Mr Wabl, is to be solved in the Kurds' home country, in Turkey, in Iraq, in Iran and wherever! It cannot be solved here in Austria or Germany. This would not be understood by our people – and by the way, by the way, we do not have political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would remind those Members who were represented in the House at the time that the ÖVP had raised its voice warning in 1995. We smiled at the then Minister of Interior, the predecessor of Karl Schlögl, Caspar One... – Franz Lösnak! He knows what's going on. [[Abg. Wabl: He didn't smile at all!]] Yes, he did! [[Abg. Wabl: Now he smiles!]] – At the time, we strongly appealed to Minister of the Interior Caspar not to treat the subject of PKK-curds-terrorism in an obsessive way. [[Abg. Wabl: He can't smile at all!]] Why did we do that back then? – There is a knowledge of the Supreme Court of 18 December. In October 1994, it was found that the Kurdistan Workers' Party, the PKK, and its sub-organisations, according to § 278a para. 1 of the Criminal Code is a criminal organisation. As Mr Stadler correctly quoted, one gave an internal instruction at the time that this organization should not be observed for the time being, but only when further attacks can be carried back to this office. But now there's been an attack: Yesterday, a Turkish institution was set up in Graz with an attack on... [[Abg. Wabl: Who?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The minister has already said it!]] Mr Wabl, did you not hear what the Minister said in his statement? [[Abg. Wabl: Did he speak of the legally convicted?]] He said that there were four people – Mr Minister, I ask you to correct myself, but I listened carefully: four people – one of them Turks was Kurds. [[Abg. Wabl: This is the underminement of the rule of law, what you are doing here!]] - No! [[Abg. Wabl: Of course!]] He said that there were probably four Turks, including a Kurd who had committed this attack on the Turkish institution. So this is the attack, one of which at the time said that only in this case his direction would not apply. That's why my first request to you is: Federal Minister Karl Schlögl! Make You reject this instruction, which Caspar One issued in 1995! – I think you would do well to do so, because it would be in the sense of the rule of law and the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must not be that terrorists have a free letter for their actions on Austrian soil. [[Abg. Wabl: That's what we said at the Kurd murders!]] On the contrary, terrorists must feel that the strong arm of the Austrian Federal Government is acting in breach of Austrian laws in accordance with the law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Then why did you not have a committee of inquiry on the Kurdish murders? There was a free letter for terrorists back then!]] In this context, I cannot spare the SPÖ the accusation that its proximity to the PKK, to the ERNK, to the ARGK is obvious. I did it back then and do it again today. This circumstance has not only been documented, presented in pictures, but has also become a problem of Austrian domestic policy. That is what I am saying as security spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! In your statement today, the following sentence – I quote page 4 – is: "The PKK and the ERNK, a political branch of the PKK, are neither registered as associations nor parties in Austria." - Quote. How can you explain, Mr Federal Minister, that an ad hoc talk with the press will take place tomorrow at the invitation of the leader of your group in the European Parliament, Hannes Swoboda? [[The speaker holds up a sheet of paper.]] I quote from this invitation: Dr. Hannes Swoboda – Invitation. [[Abg. Smolle: Very reasonable!]] – Karel Smolle, please listen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Show it here!]] I have to read it first and then I'll show it again: "Ad hoc talks on the situation of the Kurds and the EU's further action on Friday, 26. February 1999 at 11.30 a.m." in the "Europaburo der SPÖ, Schkennstraße 8/5.Stock, meeting room, 1010 Vienna." "The conversation" by Hannes Swoboda "will take place together with Erol Polat, representatives of the ERNK Austria, and Ender Karadas, spokesperson of the ERNK representative Austria." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Federal Minister! Representatives of something that doesn't exist? How's it going?]] Mr. Federal Minister, I strongly ask for clarification as to how this sentence is... – Karel Smolle, please listen to me about another problem. [[Abg. Smolle: Very reasonable that someone accepts this problem!]] – How is the statement by the Federal Minister that the PKK and the ERNK have no status as an association or as a party, i.e. act on a lawless ground, to understand if tomorrow Hannes Swoboda and representatives of these two organizations will be giving an international press conference in a SPÖ office in Vienna? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is Parliament! It's a parliament building!]] "SPÖ, Schenkenstraße" is still a parliament building. I would like to thank Mr Klubobmann for this correction. In a building of Parliament! How is that possible? Federal Minister! So if it is the case that PKK and ERNK are not parties and not clubs – you say that – but if at the same time Swoboda says: I invite you to an international press conference, namely Erol Polat, representative of the ERNK Austria, and Ender Karadas, spokesman of the ERNK representative Austria, in a SPÖ room – then, Federal Minister, is the strong Tobak! [[Abg. Young: In a parliament building!]] It only emphasizes what I say again and again: There is a close proximity of many socialists – not all – to these organisations we know about – the Supreme Court has found that they are criminal organisations. We are allowed to judge PKK and ERNK in this way at any time, according to this knowledge. So, Mr Federal Minister, I ask you: What are you, as Minister of the Interior, about this problem that I know is causing you enormous problems? – I know that, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Membership is already punishable! That's law!]] For I automatically derive from the fact that belonging to a criminal organization is punishable; of course! But can one then have a happy courage on Austrian soil, in a SPÖ room of a Parliament building, a conversation with people of which we know they belong to a criminal organization? – Minister of State! I would like to ask you to clarify this problem here today in your reply. Next: I would have expected that a clear word would be spoken on the whole matter of the Kurds, which represents Parliament as the President of the National Council – Heinz Fischer. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Go!]] Yes! I don't like to say – and I've often said it: If he was to be protected from attacks by the FPÖ, I would face him. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But today I have the extract of his interview in the "Report" of last Tuesday. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now also knows why he is against the FPÖ! Same attitude!]] Gisela Hopfmüller asked in an in-depth way: Mr National Council President – and, of course, SPÖ Federal Party Chairperson – said: How does that look? How is your proximity to the PKK, to the ERNK? Is there a condemnation of this terrorist, communist, cryptic organization, yes or no? Fischer has not found a word of excuse, he has not said a word of censure! Fischer moved in a snakeline that was personally unpleasant to me. I criticize that. I would have expected a clear word from the President of the National Council. [[Mr Karlsson and Mr Perfuss.]] The problem we have in this context leads me immediately to the Security Police Act. These Kurdish organizations, of which we know that they are criminal organizations and that they are called "PKK" and "ERNK", these extremist organizations want to fight Interior Minister Karl Schlögl – and he has the support of the ÖVP for this – in the context of a security police law with an extended risk investigation. He's got our support, and there's a ready design. But, Mr Federal Minister, I also ask you to be informed in this regard, why is this draft not yet in the Council of Ministers? Who is it, Mr Federal Minister, who is blocking this draft of the Security Police Act, which deals with advanced risk research? Is it, Mr. Federal Minister, perhaps the clubman of the SPÖ, Kostelka? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, that can't be! There's no such thing as that! He's a friend of law and order!]] I could imagine, however, that it is very good. I believe that Kostelka is driving exactly the same game he is playing in the area of military intelligence and the state police in this regard. [[Abg. Arbitrator: A beautiful coalition partner!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! - No, I don't. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You want a black state police!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! One thing is obvious: I quote from today's edition of the "Presse", from a comment by Hans Werner Scheidl on "Lassing in the Alps" "The call for the German army always sounds when the need is greatest. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Kiss is a sect specialist! But with political organizations you are relatively poorly informed!]] If disasters are no longer to be dealt with, then the military will be put to the most peaceful end in more peaceful days." Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! In recent years, they have shown an obvious anti-Bundesian attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh yes!]] [[Further calls.]] I would also like to prove it to you now, black on white, so that you can finally hear it. [[Demonstrative applause among the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you: They have pursued a blockade policy there, which is about the military power law, for two years. [[Abg. Wabl: If one criticizes corruption within the ÖVP, one is a federal army enemy! That's so simple!]] Mr. Klubobmann! For two years Werner Fassleven's design has been in the SPÖ office, in the SPÖ club. Since then, there have been nine agreed rounds of negotiations. You cancelled four dates, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true at all!]] By the way – you know – the last time on the 17th. February because you've been on a ski holiday. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You know the untruth!]] But go, prove me something else! ==References== Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have made a request that there should be a legal protection officer. I think that's all right. I am the chairman of the Committee on State Police. Again and again we all say to each other: We need more control in the state police unit. Of course, we also need more control in the area of military intelligence services. That is why Werner Fassleven's proposal to introduce a legal protection officer is correct and good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka:... so that he can control himself!]] [[Further calls.]] - No, I don't. By the way, I do not understand Andreas Wabl and Mr Petrovic when they act against these legal guardians. Because this is exactly what they have always demanded. And you, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, have... [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Self-Protective Officer! Self-protection!]] But no, that's not true! The legal protection officer shall act independently and without obligation. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: No!]] You know this as well as I do, Mr Schieder, and this also knows Klubobmann Kostelka. The Legal Protection Officer shall be appointed by the Minister of Defense after consulting the National Council President and the President of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. In particular, he receives insight into all the documents and files of the military intelligence services and then reports the subcommittees responsible for the military intelligence services. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: As far as the Minister is concerned!]] So I ask you: What else do you want? ==References== You've wanted to, but now you don't want it anymore. What do you even want? Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I make you responsible for the fact that there is nothing going on in the field of internal security – security police law, advanced risk research. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also say: You are the one who has the Bummerl when it comes to not bringing the military power law together to that extent. Let's write this into the main book! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The best talk about the ÖVP for a long time!]] In conclusion: I have a quiet hope, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. I have a hope in such a way that, if you make a public statement, it can come to your senses with the other person and perhaps with the insight to change your mind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] I have the hope, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, that perhaps after today, especially after the Federal Minister's statement on the Kurden matter, you will take a different attitude from the previous blockade. That would be my wish for you, and that is the position of the ÖVP. Give up your attitude, Mr. Klubobmann!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4979	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5000	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, Mrs Gredler is right to say that this can not only be a debate which is being held here with the Minister for the Interior and refers to the domestic policy relevance, but that, of course, it is a foreign policy debate, at least to the same extent. Because what has preceded this situation in Austria? What has happened to the fact that many people demonstrated here last week? Regrettably, that they have also resorted to resources that we also reject, from embassies to threats to burn themselves – what has preceded this? – A failure of foreign policy, not only in Austria, but also in the European Union! It is necessary to present everything here today again and to say that the Foreign Minister is not here. But over long distances – even though I have listened to my previous speakers – these are, of course, contributions that primarily concern foreign policy, including the reflections on what can still be done now and where it can still be tried to somehow find a common system that is also related to the European level. But I think it is also justifiable and right to hear today a report on the domestic situation, so to speak, on the handling of demonstrations and occupations, and also on the ways in which they are proposed to continue. Right ahead: I am very glad to say, on behalf of my group, that, unlike Germany, we have chosen our own way in Austria, on the question of which associations should be banned or allowed, that we did not enter into a discussion such as in Germany, but chose a way that was always marked by the effort to engage in a dialogue with the Kurdish representatives in Austria. I think that this Austrian way, which the Minister of the Interior outlined and who had already practised his predecessors, was the right way for him to be the right one and to have led to the demonstrations in Austria, but above all the occupations were glaring. In addition, something like an appeal and an encouragement to continue this Austrian path! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, it's right what I hear and what my previous speaker said: Austria must not be the ground where violent conflicts and acts of terror come about. That's all right. But the question – and it is difficult to do this in such a debate here in the plenary session – is always that of fine-tuning. Before I end up with a little polemic – because that is what you have said – first of all one that I did not understand at all in your contribution to the debate: [[Abg. Kiss: I admit that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not forbidden! Polemik is not forbidden!]] You have held an invitation from Mr Swoboda to a meeting that will take place tomorrow with a representative of the ERNK Bureau – what is bothering you, Mr Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you defending your future coalition partner?]] Does it bother you that there is a conversation with the ERNK? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you defend your future coalition partner here?]] Does it bother you that there is the conversation? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is there an area coalition red-green?]] Or is it bothering you that the Federal Minister has said that the ERNK is not allowed as an association, and here it is referred to as if it were an association? [[Abg. Kiss: And not as a party! This is illegal, Mrs Colleague!]] What's bothering you? If we agree that there is an Austrian path of our own, if we agree that only the dialogue, the discussion can lead to a solution, then you cannot interfere at all, Mr Kiss. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: If this is a criminal organization, as the Supreme Court says!]] For you see – in order to get back to foreign policy with a swivel, and I told you last week –: Have you ever considered where we would be in foreign policy, in international politics today, if there had been no discussions with the PLO 30 years ago? What was the PLO 30 years ago? What was Arafat 30 years ago? – Apart from the fact that there was a president of the State of Israel who was an internationally sought terrorist, but who later became a recognized president of that country and that state. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What does that mean?]] What do you think we would be in international politics today if there had been no talks with the political wing of the IRA? – There are very wise people there on both sides who have considered such levels of conversation, as there is also a political wing in addition to a terrorist organization in the form of the IRA. It's clear: With all the uncertainty that such a separation necessarily entails when it comes to two organizations with the same concerns and the same claim for representation, this is a wise approach, because it allows selected statesmen – as in the UK – to have talks with a political wing in order to reach peace agreements. Do you think we have a peace agreement on Palestine and Israel today? Do you think we would have a peace agreement in Northern Ireland today if we had done as you outlined it here on this speaker's floor? - By no means. [[Abg. Kiss: It is obvious that it is a criminal organization! That's not what I'm saying, that's what the Supreme Court says!]] How do you imagine that we can solve the problem that Turkey has and that we have in Europe? [[Abg. Kiss: The minister says no club, no party!]] How can you imagine that the problem of Kurds can be solved in five countries, if not the corresponding pressure is exerted on a country like Turkey to come up with talks? How do you imagine that? You know, I think, because you also have Members in your ranks who are very active in this respect in the Council of Europe and who have contributed to the review of Turkey's membership in the Council of Europe. In January, the report of the Council of Europe – and, moreover, carried out by your colleague Swimmer – came out on this review of membership. I don't know if you know this report. It points out that Turkey's membership obligations in the Council of Europe are being gravely violated, that torture is on the agenda, that there are restrictions on freedom of the press and opinion, that there is a state of emergency in the areas inhabited by Kurds, that there is no use of the Kurdish language, and, and so on. You could continue this list. I think you all know them, and you know that this is not the only report. Last Tuesday, the Council of Europe's Torture Committee published its report. It is alarming and embarrassing for Europe, and the list can still be continued, up to NGOs such as Amnesty International, but also, as I have said, exactly those institutions I think you are carrying them. There is a human rights charter whose co-signatory is Turkey and whose agreements they violate. There is, moreover, an international Convention on Human Rights, which sets out exactly what is to be done and what is to be done. How do you want to solve this problem? It is even more difficult to find the problem or the situation that Turkey is a NATO member country. That is the difference between Serbia and Turkey, namely that we have to deal with a NATO member country in one case. The United States is deeply interested in the geopolitical situation of this country, because from there – more precisely from the stations there – they have a free view of Asia, into the Middle East, and because they can act accordingly. Therefore, they do not veto when it comes to the raids in northern Iraq. So how do you want to act there, and how do you want to react? One possibility – it has not yet been mentioned, and I think it is a wise opportunity – is to start peace talks in Austria to descale. It offered itself the possibility of peace talks with Turkish and Kurdish representatives in Austria, in the cities asking the mayors to set up round tables by inviting representatives of the respective groups to discuss with party representatives how situations in cities can be descaled in order to avoid such attacks as yesterday in Graz. Mr Kiss, we called the State Police yesterday in Graz. I was interested in the state of the art of the surveys. I got the following information from the State Police: You have no idea who did the attack. [[Abg. Kiss: So please, the Minister said something completely different!]] You arrested four suspects. They admit that there are suspects that there is no evidence and no basis for saying that this was an attack from Kurds on a Turkish center, apart from the fact that it is not a Turkish centre, but an Islamic prayer center, that there are only assumptions and preconceptions that lead to exactly the situation that we do not want. [[Abg. Kiss: I refer to the Federal Minister's statement, nothing else!]] [[Abg. Kiss: I referred to the Federal Minister's statement, nothing else! He read it here!]] It leads to an escalation of the situation when you speak here at the speaker's desk, stir emotions and create moods, and at the same time try to talk to Engelsungen. Mr Kiss! If you say... – Do you want to listen to me? [[in the direction of the Abg. Wabl]] [[Abg. Kiss: I'm talking to Andreas, your party partner!]] If you say that Austria should not become the ground that produces a free letter for terrorists: Why Refuse Do you then have an investigation committee on the murder of the Kurds? What was the difference in 1989? What was there for a free letter for terrorists? [[Abg. Wabl: State terrorism was that!]] Even worse: Official Austrian authorities have accompanied the terrorists to the airport and probably also wished them all the good for the flight back home! [[Abg. Wabl:... that there have been murders of Kurdish citizens! Or was that a military action?]] If you take seriously what you have said to this speaker, you still have to agree today to a request to set up a committee of inquiry which we are happy to bring in. [[Abg. Wabl: Then we will see if he agrees whether he is against state terrorism!]] Only then can you be taken seriously into account that there is no free letter for terrorists here. That's exactly what I told you last week. But as long as you always talk to split tongues and can't decide who and what you think you're always going to be unbelievable, even if you're talking about that we need a dialogue and that we need the conversation to come to a solution. What I would like and what should be possible in Austria is that elected representatives of the people here decide on an appeal to go to the public and say: It cannot be said that in Turkey elected representatives are sitting in the dungeon, that parties cannot be prohibited from being party representatives and party founders in prison. It should be possible for us to appeal for a contact group to be set up and for a peace conference to be held to hold these talks and this dialogue, as it is now in the case of Kosovo. There should be an appeal, which also provides the question: How can only half the human rights conditions exist in a process in Turkey? – Make With your appeal for a fair trial in Turkey, there is nothing to do with it! Turkey is a country in which there is military judicial jurisdiction. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But Öcalan is in front of an ordinary court, you know that!]] Turkey is a country where the military represents a state in the state. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I remember some processes that were properly managed!]] There to appeal for a fair trial, where the lawyers have not even been presented to this day, that is hypocrisy, Mr Khol! Initialize [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You're such an appeal! Let us begin by sending a parliamentary delegation back to Turkey! Initiate that we can again visit our colleagues, our elected colleagues in Ankara! Let us, therefore, set a sign of solidarity, a sign of what we understand by democracy and constitutional law! Initialize such round tables about your mayors in your cities to descale! Include those Kurdish representatives who want to come to solutions peacefully! There are them. ERNK's office has distanced itself from yesterday's attack in Graz. Include these representatives in your discussions, as only then will it be possible to come to a dialogue in Austria, to send a signal and to act as an example! Unfortunately, we do not have a foreign policy debate today, but it would be appropriate to urgently discuss appropriate opportunities and initiate them at European level so that similar processes can be initiated against Turkey, as was the case with Serbia and Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5296	Mr Delegate Dr. Kostelka has reported an actual correction. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5328	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kiss, in his speech, said that I would have pursued, as he has said, a permanent blockade policy in connection with the Military Power Act. This is deciduous and manifestly incorrect. Article 18 of our Federal Constitution states that the entire government must be governed by laws. The last area where this is not the case is the Military Power Act. At the beginning of this legislative period, I therefore called for such a military power law. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What is this actual correction, Mr President?]] Such a military power law has been presented in a form which does not correspond to Article 18 because it contains a whole slat of formal delegations and empowerments which do not comply with the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss! We want a military authority law, but we don't want a military power law with rival intelligence services. [[Abg. Kiss: Now you said it! Now you've betrayed yourself!]] We do not want a military power law with a self-proclaimed control and no military power law, according to which the little noise attack would eventually be possible without judicial control.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5390	Deputies! Although we in this House are accustomed to generous interpretation of the provisions for the actual correction, we should not be all too generous in this matter. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5433	Please stop, it's my speaking time! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Peter: Lord Schieder! We're with you!]] Before I come to the question, Mr President, I would like to refer to the contribution or to the actual correction of Members of the Partik-Pablé. It was not correct in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Partik-Pablé has literally said here: "... and I also suspect that he" – she said to honourable Member Leikam – "may be drunk because otherwise he could never come to such a statement." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's my opinion!]] – You confirm it now and say that is your opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He didn't even know what he said afterwards!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is a behavior and an assumption that nothing has been lost in this house. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have experienced Members Leikam working here in the early morning even before 8 o'clock. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're a caller!]] It is therefore twice as wrong to say that. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why don't you talk about what he accused us?]] – Ladies and gentlemen! Many have already passed derailments in this House, but only a few have happened that they have not had the size of apologising afterwards. Please apologise, for this is not a matter of saying something like that here in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Unbelievable! There you are! You can say anything! Everything can be blamed on us!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I would always apologise if I were to use such words, Mr Deputies. – I am not speaking now of others, I am talking about myself and Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then don't take your people for protection!]] I expect her to apologize, for that would belong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can expect it, but I don't!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for the Interior for his statement, and I am also grateful for the clear attitude he has taken here, an attitude which is characterized by the interests of the people in a safe, peaceful living together and in respect of the legislation in our country, but which is also equally marked by the principles of indivisible human rights which it is necessary to demand from every country and therefore also from Turkey. It is important to demand that the standards we have established in Europe be particularly respected. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank Mr Leikam, who has also been present here and whom the Minister has mentioned, for joining the executive and all the others who have been in operation. Despite heavy stress, they have responded with the necessary sensitivity. Austria has also demonstrated European solidarity with regard to information and voting with its approach and its contacts, Mr Minister. I am particularly pleased that other countries, including other EU countries, have not shown this solidarity in the information. Next point: ENRK discussed and mentioned. [[Abg. Kiss: ERNK!]] Apart from whatever legal status you wish or have, honourable Member, apart from the status, I would argue that Austria should remain in its position. [[Abg. Kiss: Don't put everything on the scale that's said in an intermediate call!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is in the Minutes!]] We have done well in the past, and the Minister's reference to abductions into illegality is true. As long as the current persons are active on the previous line, it is at least possible to stick to this attitude. If there are any changes in this respect, it will be checked. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Schieder! The changes have been made with the embassies, with the break of peace!]] - No, no! Take a look at it! As far as Mr Swoboda's event and her contribution to the debate on this matter are concerned, I must point out that this event is also marked by his efforts to help to descale this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Would you also talk to the "grey wolves" in Turkey?]] For Austria, it would be important to also act internationally, i.e. in the Council of Europe and at other levels. For neither can Austrian MEPs care how a member of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE behaves. It may not matter how Turkey presented the accused Öcalan to the Prenger, how it presented it, what announcements there are in this regard, and how the prosecutor demands the death penalty. [[Abg. Kiss: By Turkish law!]] All of this is not in line with European standards, it is an unworthy spectacle and it is a fear that there will not be a fair process. Austria, like all of Europe, must do everything in order to observe these processes in order to influence them, and that will be the task of the Foreign Office. For example, in the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the Turkish representatives of these days have already rejected the fact that such a point is on the agenda at all. We must exert pressure, and it must not be measured by two measures. One cannot be blind to Turkey's actions against the Kurds simply because there is a military interest in America in Turkey. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] This people too has a right to self-determination! The Kurds also have a right to preserve their culture, and that must also be part of our activities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Yes, and this with peaceful means!]] We must ensure that it is peaceful in our country. However, we must also ensure that people in a member country of the Council of Europe are not deprived of all those rights for which we have all fought for decades and centuries together in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5713	Mr Jung has now come to speak with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5734	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Schieder! I share in many areas what you have done about the situation of the unfortunate Kurds, and also with regard to the ambivalent situation of the USA, which, depending on the need, distinguishes between good and evil Kurds. [[Abg. Kiss: Of course! Completely right!]] Unfortunately, I do not have so much time to deal with foreign policy, nor do we have an internal debate. But, Mr Arbitrator, I would also like to turn to the others here in the house: We are Austrian Members here and have, in the first place – and this is forgotten in this debate – to represent the interests of the Austrians. It is not in their interest to move the Wild Kurdistan to Mariahilfer Straße or Ballhausplatz. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A few minutes ago, I had a conversation with a woman from my district. There is an area in my district where for months Turkish, Kurdish – no one knows exactly – mass events take place under mysterious circumstances – you don't come in. Citizens are scared. We have tried to raise awareness of the county's representation. The district chief has not answered requests for eight weeks to delay it. We tried to get information from the police. There seems to be the one thing to say: We know anyway, but we're told from above, we have to be quiet and be calm. That means that the interests of the Austrians are not represented, but the interests of the Kurds or others – I do not know which – and that is certainly not in our sense, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The magazine "Der Spiegel" entitled: "Kurdenwarg in Germany" – not only in Germany. Although the promoter is a bit dramatic, keep in mind the following: Two years ago, there were 40 000, 50,000 demonstrating Kurds in Europe. There were locked highways, burning cars, locked border crossings. – That was only the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! There were dead in Berlin last week. Yesterday – under any circumstances, but it was hardly self-inflammation – an Islamic prayer house burned in Austria. What will happen to us in the course of the Öcalan process – Turkey is certainly not to be seen as a model of democracy? What's happening? – The Minister of the Interior and, above all, the SPÖ are wiping off. But this is no wonder, it has a highly ambivalent relationship to the Turks, especially to the Kurds – similar to the Polisario, resulting from the common Marxism nostalgia. ==References====External links== May the red flags with the communist red star can be turned at the SPÖ May march and that at the same time the images of the terrorist – he is a terrorist, no matter how one treats him now – Öcalan are carried along? It can not only be due to the member's wound of the Vienna SPÖ that people are allowed to march to fill the lighted rows. This shows old ropes and inner interconnectedness. Kurds also marched with Austrian citizenship, as well as among the ambassadors Kurds who already have Austrian citizenship. Mr Kiss! Austria, you said, has become that home. – I have strong doubts about it, because they – I can understand it humanly, but I cannot tolerate it as an Austrian – are closer to their Kurdish people than the Austrian people they have taken up and whose laws they are now breaking and against which they are acting by force. There is a fundamental problem here in the whole foreign question, ladies and gentlemen. Are these people really able to confess more to Austria than to their country of origin? – We inherit our children and grandchildren conflicts in the future, and we do not know what to do with them. The wars, the religious differences of the future will be carried out violently in us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: This is a conditio sine qua non!]] If the PKK were a club, they could have been banned, a member of the Ministry of the Interior said. – Minister! Did your people really need a registration of the BBA to track it? It may not be that one can only deal with someone if he has been logged in. Mr Fischer has said that good information from the Kurden scene is available anyway. In this regard, I have strong doubts, doubts about the knowledge of the Stapo in this area, otherwise it would have to be clear that in Austria membership contributions, protection stamps de facto, are lifted that violent action is being taken against people who do not pay. - But we're muttering! Since Kreisky everything went well? What was the Nittel murder? What about Schönau? What was the Palmer abduction? What were those OPEC stories? Was that all peaceful, ladies and gentlemen? Did you forget that? [[Abg. Smolle: Young! If you know that, why don't you refund ad?]] Minister of the Interior! They will not achieve anything with violence. These are fanatics. Those who burn themselves are also willing to act violently against others. This story with the SPÖ office, which is made available, shows nothing but the internal division of the socialists. Member of the fisherman fights with the left wing – where the heart beats – against the realist, the Minister of the Interior. We'll see who's gonna be stronger: me or me. They also try to devastate the Austrians. For the left one does something, and in Carinthia the other tries to act for the choice of conservatives. But you won't be able to take the Austrians around on the nose for a long time. ==References====External links== March. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Here is hardness, not just verbal hardness, asked. Her German SPD college clearly recognized this. Out with the terrorists and relatives of banned organizations from Austria! If the existing laws are not sufficient, then do something, Mr. Minister, to adapt them.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5900	Ladies and gentlemen! If you allow me, I can give Mr Puttinger the floor, with the wish that he may also find his voice. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e5922	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear High House! I actually wanted to deal with Agenda items 2 to 4 and deal essentially with the safety report, but it is a need for me to make three preliminary remarks. Mr. Jung! I would like to state clearly the position of the ÖVP: Someone who has found his home in Austria must also confess to Austria – this is a condition sine qua non for us – and have more to do with it than for his former homeland. Austria is his home then! - I'm just saying it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why Fassleven on the Nordic border withdrew the Croatian soldiers!]] On the comments made by Mrs Kammerlander, I should like to say the following: Why are there only round tables that should restore the rule of law in Austria? – In my opinion, everyone who lives in Austria should have his will and comply with the rule of law, and thus there will be no more terrorism in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A clear statement to Mr Schieder: It may be true that the way the Austrian government has gone, which the Minister of the Interior has gone, has been the right one, but there have been changes in the behaviour. The purpose simply does not sanctify the means! That is why we have to hold this debate and we have to deal with what we stand for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But now on the report, relating to the security report in the field of internal security in Salzburg. I am glad that the number of all criminal offences could be reduced by 126 cases. I am glad that we have recorded a minus of 5.7 percent in the past. I am glad that the frequency has decreased. I am glad that the education rate has increased from 49 to 50.6 percent. . I think we also have to discuss this report. We have seen that there are also positive sides in Austria. Minister of the Interior! Let us be grateful for the positive development of all of this in your department. It is particularly gratifying, however, that there is a 28.6 percent reduction in the crime in the field of arms law. This shows – I would like to pay tribute to you Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, say clearly – that registration and control can achieve better success than by disarming. You should also take this into account in your demands regarding the arms law at the end of the day. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, justice is always lacking. That is why you allow me to refer a little to the judicial report. A positive assessment is that the new announcements in the field of prosecutors have fallen by 2 per cent, which means more than 3 000 cases. Cases involving unknown perpetrators also show a decrease. The number of legal practitioners has fallen by 2.9 percent. Similarly, the condemnation of persons for criminal acts against body and life has fallen by 4.9 percent. But there is also the side of the medal. Unfortunately, the number of young people convicted has increased slightly. This should draw our attention to the need to pay more attention to this problem. It is particularly bad that drug crime is experiencing a trend which is positive on the one hand, because there are fewer drug deaths, but on the other hand, the total number of ads has increased by 25.4 percent due to the Drug and Addiction Act. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Minister of Justice! That's what we've got to deal with. After this trip to the statistics, you allow me to address two fundamental issues, on the one hand to the courts themselves and on the other hand to the detention of the investigation, to the practice of the arrest. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Justice for preparing a new empirical study for the regional application of the arrest in 1998. I've been asking for this for two years. Let us be glad that he did it now; it took two or three years for us to get new figures to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I asked for this study, and I have now looked at it again. Unfortunately, however, there has only been a shift because there are still large regional differences. There has been no change, but a shift has taken place. I have three or four examples to give: The average U-Haft-Dauer is in the Landesgericht Feldkirch only four weeks, in the Landesgericht Innsbruck or Korneuburg eight to nine weeks. The average duration of proceedings is four weeks in the Regional Court of Ried, in Feldkirch and Klagenfurt, twice as long. The arrest rate before the main proceedings is 50 percent in Ried im Innkreis and in Feldkirch, and only 11 percent in the Landesgericht Korneuburg, where it is five times as high. The detention rate is twice as high in Graz, Feldkirch and Ried as in Wels, Linz and Klagenfurt. Mr. Federal Minister, who unfortunately is not here today! - I see he's here. I ask you: How can you represent these serious differences? – In Austria, there are obviously two types of case law, and we have to prevent that from happening. If I, Mr. Federal Minister, were a clever thief – I brought a similar example for the last time, I only have to mention other places today – I would move my activities to Feldkirch or Vorarlberg after studying this safety report. For at the Landesgericht Feldkirch, the rate of detention is low, the average U-Haft duration is only half short or extremely short and the 50 percent probability that I will be released before the main proceedings. It does not distinguish the rule of law of Austria that the arrest is treated in such a different way. I think there is a need for action in this regard. I believe that we will do just as much in the future as we have compiled up-to-date data for this report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make a second fundamental point, namely the courts. In 1997, we had 140,159 criminal proceedings, of which 70,7 percent were district courts – in absolute numbers more than 100,000. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Once again, this number clearly and impressively documents how significant these district courts are, how necessary it is to maintain these district courts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the rural population in particular, these small units of jurisdiction are essential in order to ensure the close supply of the people seeking justice. I repeat what I said last time when dealing with this report: Close-up services in the field of justice are more than just spokesmen. Close-up services in the field of justice are more than just one day of negotiation per week. Close-up services in the field of justice are more than basic book extracts by computer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us get these small mosaics of the local supply for the infrastructure of our rural population! Right, ladies and gentlemen, must not be a question of distance!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6000	Mr Smolle has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6022	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. Minister! Perhaps first of all a word on Mr Swoboda's initiative. I welcome the fact that a member of the European Parliament, through close contact with all the Kurds, sees this as a European issue and thus a foreign policy issue. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank Mr Swoboda, who is a member of the European Parliament, from my side in this regard. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Especially with regard to groups of people, this is always a question of courage, because of course it is very common to meet so-called "false representatives" – under quotation marks. But it is annoyed, Mr Minister, to deal with the problem as an internal policy problem. This ignores an external European dimension and, of course, the security problem really hurts, ladies and gentlemen. However, I would also like to express a praise for the ÖVP, which is not only present now, since only very "important" Members are present, but for example not Mr Kiss. I would like to thank you very much, because the ÖVP has exactly the same contacts with the same men and has the same discussions. I know the representatives of the ÖVP who do. I'm just asking you to be so kind to ask your club who it is. It is not my job to open Members. I assume that Kiss either speaks against better knowledge or that he knows nothing. - And he'd rather let go of both of them! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] In connection with the Green Group, I must also say a suspicion, as I am surprised that mushrooms suddenly argue in such a positive way towards the Minister of the Interior. Mr Kammerlander has just repeated this. Perhaps the secret wish is that fungus could become an interior minister in a green-red coalition similar to Schily in Germany. [[Abg. Wabl: Tell the shark in Carinthia!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have a little feeling that the preparation statement is: You were at the time with the K-Groups, but today we are quite sympathetic, take us as Minister of the Interior. – I say it’s all right to make the gardener a bock. I think that's okay. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would also like to say something to Mr Jung. – Mr Jung! You always know so much what crimes happen in Austria. I wonder, of course, why don't you return an advertisement. There's the security authorities. Write this together, so that at last all the criminals in our prisons will end up wiping out. But stop with this general talk: There is a congregation there, terrible things are going to happen, crimes are being prepared, and the criminals are running around freely. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] - Call the criminals! Call the crimes and show them! The officials in charge are sitting there on the bank. I am sorry that I have wasted so much time with the political groups, but now on the subject, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wabl: What kind of democratic understanding is that? What kind of democratic understanding is that?]] On the question of the Kurds there is a deep disappointment and fraud in the Kurdish people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls and countercalls at the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] In 1920 there was the first contract that brought autonomy to the Kurds. Allow me to give you a brief history of history; he may be of importance to you, Mr Stadler, then you may change your mind. There was the English sphere of influence that developed into Iraq and Iran, as well as the French area with Syria and Lebanon. We know that a people who are divided into four or five countries – so we have to say today – is not in a simple situation, even economically. The Kemalists have come up with the aim of creating a state of both peoples, the Kurds and the Turks. That was the basis for the Turkish Republic today, and it would perhaps be good to put this on the table, in the sense of historical Enlightenment, on the Turkish side. The basis of today's secularised Turkish state is the joint decision of both peoples, Kurds and Turks, for a common state. They also shed their blood for this. That's the base. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No! That's not true! That's not true!]] Then the changes come: In 1923 there was the Lausanne Peace Treaty, with which the Kurds were granted their autonomy and their language rights. Then the Kemalists came and said: A State – a Nation! – That was the beginning of the so-called mountain towers, although you could say "flatland cords" to the Turks as well, if you wanted to defamate them, ladies and gentlemen! There was then the uprising under the leadership of Mustafa Barzani, who, at least in Iraq, brought a partial autonomy from 1961 to 1970. In 1979, the great Kurdish uprising in Iran was bloodyly beaten. In 1984, armed resistance began, especially organized by the PKK. Since 1987, Ladies and gentlemen also from the FPÖ, the state of emergency. More than 4,000 villages were destroyed by Turkish military. There were more than 30,000 deaths, tortures, and murders. In 1988, Mr Saddam Hussein's toxic gas use against the Kurds took place, among other things, in Halabja, to name but one place where 5,000 people were killed. After the defeat of Iraq, severe fighting took place in northern Iraq during Kurdish uprisings in 1991. In 1992, with military and security forces, Turkey repeatedly invaded this protection zone, i.e. Iraq, and fought the Kurds there. In 1993, the HADEP party was founded by a procuring party in Turkey. We know how many Members of this party have already seen the Turkish prison from within. Their only crime was being Kurds, ladies and gentlemen! In 1995 the Kurdish Exile Parliament was founded with various political groups. There are now elections in Turkey in 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! After showing you a brief outline of the history of a people, I ask you: Where should the Kurds turn today in Europe in view of such atrocities experienced by a people? Give me an institution where they can turn and ask for their case to be negotiated. That's the point. This is the external dimension. It is therefore pointless to speak of an internal dimension. For this domestic policy situation has its cause in the unsolved foreign policy situation, in which eye swings towards Turkey: Human rights are not so important. [[Abg. Kiss: That's why your conclusion is wrong! That's why your conclusion is wrong!]] I do not hide the victims caused by the Kurds themselves, including those in their own ranks, ladies and gentlemen! But that is the case, if one also permits an unfair state on the part of the State, then this eye twinkling has other consequences too! If one claims that Turkey is only fighting the Kurds, ladies and gentlemen, then that is a fundamental mistake. I have a report from the Anti-Folter Committee of the Council of Europe. In this report – in the Council of Europe we are involved – it is quite clear that permanent tortures by the prison staff, by the police, are talking about abuses. There are a few "beautiful" in this report so that we can, as it were, change the resistance of Turkey's veto, ladies and gentlemen. Let me now get to the deportation, my colleague. You've spoken a lot before for the deportation. I'm allowed to read: We must point out the case of Akbas, an asylum-seeker, who has been postponed last year. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why did he get pushed off?]] He was a Kurdish asylum seeker. He was proved to be tortured after his arrival in Turkey. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why did he get pushed off? Why? Why?]] The torture in Turkey has nothing to do with the question of its disfellowshipping. This can have administrative, criminal or other reasons, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why? Why?]] I would like to point out that this report by the Council of Europe's Anti-Folter Committee is not only talking about acts and tortures of the Turkish security authorities against Kurds, but also about "normal Turks", ladies and gentlemen, under quotation marks. That is why, of course, it is a clear excuse to demand from Turkey: Now we've sent you Öcalan, make him a fair trial! – The fair process is not to be expected. Allow me to deal with this briefly. Mr Öcalan is charged with § 125 criminal code, which my colleague Gredler has already carried out. That's the death penalty. Ladies and gentlemen! They will prove him a few murders, including Turkish law. They will condemn him to death and then pardon him. That will be the Turkish procedure. The pressure will be great, a fair procedure will not be. But let us separate the criminal aspect of Mr Öcalan and others from the question of the Kurdish people. This mixture of PKK, of individual crimes with the entire Kurdish question, is exactly this confusion that is needed in order not to act at the political level. Let us be clear about human rights, foreign policy issues, security issues and internal policy issues! They only have something in common in the cause, an unresolved problem, an unresolved problem in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen! I stay there, and I say this from here again very clearly: We need to break our minds intensively in Europe, especially in the EU-Europe on the issue of prevention. Do we have to intervene in every conflict only if it is already run militaryly? Do we really have to wait that long? Are we not able to end this stone age of lack of legal standards? If we have succeeded in establishing clear foundations in the area of human rights, in adopting a convention, why are we not able to adopt a similar convention in Europe, ladies and gentlemen? I know that this is difficult for many countries in the internal political sphere, but we simply have to do so. People's rights also belong to codified across Europe in order to create a basis for a solid solution to the problem of ethnic groups. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this sense, of course, this Federal Government must be criticized. The crisis, at least in Europe, reached its peak when Austria held the EU Presidency. It was the most important thing for us to hold our eyes and hope that perhaps we could go over it by December, because then the Germans would be delivered to this problem. That must simply be done! I can only say: From the moment we help solve the Kurdish question in Turkey, as a people's group and human rights issue, we have no internal Kurdish problem either. The procedure should be: first of all, the central problem, the cause of conflict, and then the question of internal policy. In this sense, I address my appeal to all the political groups in this House that we may try, in one way or another, to break our minds on how to define a European People's Group law as a enforceable right within our borders and then carry it on as a European project. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6179	Mr Schlögl has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6200	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to briefly comment on some of the things mentioned in the previous debate. First: Both by Mr Deputies Stadler as well as the MPs Jung and Kiss were criticised for the instructions of the then Minister of the Interior Caspar One in connection with the group ERNK. I should like to say that there is in fact a record by the Director-General for Public Security on such an argument. ==References====External links== ==References== For me, for two reasons, this document note and this instruction from 1995 are no longer valid: first of all, because soon after I took office as Minister of the Interior as Minister of the Interior, I said very clearly to my colleagues and to the staff in the field of the state police, but also in other special units that such an instruction is not to be executed and is not to be observed. In addition, I would like to say that I believe that as early as the time of Mr Caspar's work, I am already working. One of the ministers of the interior was no longer up-to-date and was no longer respected, because the ERNK and the management class were displayed in April 1996 after months of surveys by the EBT according to § 278 of the Criminal Code – this section regulates criminally organized connections. Only the fact that the EBT has notified the ERNK and the leadership of the Court of Justice on the basis of observations and of monthly surveys is the best proof that this instruction has no longer existed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Has there been a trial?]] – I don’t know if there has been a trial, and I can’t tell you anything about the outcome of any court proceedings, but I’m willing to ask you about it. [[Abg. Kiss: And who has shown?]] – The EBT, the set-up group to combat terrorism. [[Abg. Kiss: Could we get information about this?]] – Yes, I am willing to provide more information about it. [[Abg. Kiss: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Don't give everything out of hand!]] In addition, I would like to say clearly that, of course, both PKK activists and the National Liberation Front activists are observed by relevant officials of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior. I think this is absolutely necessary and correct for reasons of state security. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: As part of the general risk analysis?]] . I believe that in this case there is the coverage provided by the Security Police Act and in this case it is not necessary to obtain an additional competence through the extended risk investigation, because it is clear by appropriate court judgments that the Austrian security authorities have the task of monitoring, controlling and, if necessary, refunding advertisements. [[Abg. Kiss: And because of the extended research!]] Next point: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler has accused me of the fact that today's declaration is an exchange of explanations. It may be that there is this impression here in Parliament. I can only tell you, in this case it was not. Both the SPÖ Club and the ÖVP Club have asked me to make a statement on this subject. In addition, almost simultaneously the security spokesperson of the Liberals has told me that she expects a statement from me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] And if three political parties in this House expect me as ministers to make a statement on this issue, it is almost natural for me to make such a statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Take the vice chancellor by the hand!]] I am aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the Kurdish problems, the conflicts we had in Austria last week, are only partly security and security issues. That is why I have also tried to do something about it and to make it clear in my statement that these problems cannot be solved by the work and activities of the executives in Austria alone. That's just a small part. It is necessary to resolve this issue internationally and to put forward the appropriate initiatives, and I know that these initiatives are put by the Vice-President. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Take him with you!]] – My job is not to take and accompany other ministerial colleagues. Every fellow minister is grown up enough to decide for himself. With regard to Mrs Kammerlander's question concerning the events in Graz, I can tell you that the current state of investigation is: Immediately after the two fire attacks, which, fortunately, cost no human life, did not cause injury to humans and only a mediocre damage, four suspects were arrested by the Graz police. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't know that before!]] In the meantime, there have been appropriate investigations of the CTC, and in a garment and in a bowl, petrol, high boiling aromas have been detected. A comparison with other crime traces is still pending. However, the Public Prosecutor's Office has decided that these four suspects will be sent to the National Criminal Court after the detention of custody. This means that the suspicion that among these four suspects is at least one suspected perpetrator is very high. And I am convinced that there is in any case a participation of these people in one form or another. However, there is no legal conviction yet, that is clear. It is important for me, ladies and gentlemen, that we continue this way of talking, dialogue in Austria, with the Kurdish People's Group. We have around 40 000 Kurds in Austria, and only part of these Kurds sympathize with the goals of the PKK and the National Liberation Front of Kurdistan. But there are many other Kurds who live in Austria and have great interest in solving the problems of their people. I believe that our task must be to support precisely these Kurds, who are very peacefully representing their legitimate interests here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6410	We are now continuing in the debate. Mr Dr. Jarolim, you are speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6431	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only follow the words of the Minister for the Interior, with regard to the presentation of the problem in the Kurdish question, also the comments of Mr Smolle. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I understand that They have difficulties in understanding the links between international and national issues. However, if we take into account developments in recent years, in recent decades, especially those of the Palestinians, then there should be no question that the way in which Austria has dealt with international problems, international problems, which logically also have an impact on the national field – and this is the case now again with the question of dealing with this problem – was correct, namely that the problem was addressed where it actually existed. The Kurdish question with all its aspects – also taking into account the fact that 5 000 people have been killed in a poison gas attack; Children, women and men – logically, however, can only lead to the emergence of an international movement that is opposed to such processes. There is a need to react internally and externally. I can invite you to join us in this way, to say: This issue must be discussed in the Council of Europe! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Turkey is in the Council of Europe, and it is therefore having to ensure that this issue is descaled from there where it arises, ladies and gentlemen. That is why there is nothing else but what Mr Schiederer has mentioned here today, namely to insist that this procedure, which is now being conducted against Öcalan, should take place in a legal framework, as we know in Europe. But this is not the case at present, and it is therefore necessary to insist on it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If Germany had had to demand delivery, that would be guaranteed!]] There is the death penalty in Turkey – and I assume that we all believe that this should not be the case – as the only country of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights. The international observers have not been admitted. There's no way to attract lawyers of their own choice, and there's a military judge inside. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a way to go, if you are really interested in de-escaling a problem. The fact that the consequences of this problem are felt in all the countries of Europe is also clear, as it is a need for those present in the countries concerned to demonstrate against it. I can only say: The way in which we deal with this in Austria, namely the basic expression of understanding in the fight against criminal outrages at the same time, is the only way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Where? When?]] They have heard in the Minister's statement that where there has been criminal offences – there are very few cases, and therefore every building up is entirely adjacent – has been responded. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What about the ambassadors? They've been sent home!]] Mr Bauer! Do you want to lock up all the embassies? That's the dimension of a problem solution that unfortunately is God's own. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I want to see what happens to me when I have a message?- Oh, my God!]] This is not only dangerous in this case, but also inhumane and out of national and political considerations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I would just like to say something about the comments made by Mr Puttinger. Mr President, I should like to thank They have said that there is a different approach in the Oberlandesgerichtsprängeln. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'd like to join him. It is simply not optimal that we have different legal statements in different explosives. However you may judge it, I think we should sit down and discuss it together with the judiciary. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] One more thing: I do not think that the local services provided by a high number of district courts are perfectly solved. I mean, it would only be solved if we each had specialist judges for criminal and civil matters, and these you don't really have at the courthouses. There you have a judge who does both. I think it would be a failure to sit down and have a variety of expert judges in a court that, in the individual case, I think, better judge. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But he also solves many other problems!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6541	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6562	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by saying a few words about the security report, which is also the subject of the debate, before I go into the debate today as a result of the Federal Minister's statement. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a safe country – that is the most important recognition of this security report – and every panic that is now happening in particular by parties that are on the right edge in Austria is therefore the opposite of what it claims to be. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: An out-of-court settlement...!]] This panic is used to try to greatly devalue the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population. We have already experienced this, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee's discussion. As one who is well-known for making critical comments again and again, what the work of the security executive as a whole, but also the work of the Federal Minister for the Interior Mag. Schlögl, I say, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The police in Austria – and this is my knowledge of the security report – worked well in the past year! That is why I wonder what these constant indications are to be used for, that Austria is at risk. [[Abg. Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé: Because she has become blue, the police!]] That is the very conclusion that cannot be drawn from the security report, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Those who have made the effort to look and read in the security report or to hear the statements made by the Federal Minister in the Committee can only see this turnaround as a political fight against the uncertainty of the Austrian population. It is very important for me to note this, ladies and gentlemen. For a much more essential threat to security in Austria is the constant reduction of social security, which exists in Austria, and the constant danger of losing work, to slip into poverty. In fact, this poses an ever-increasing threat to the safety of Austria. In any case, the crime figures and information rates do not allow this to happen! That is why I would like to thank all those who give us this positive report – more information, because there are people behind it too. Crime prevention is also a task of the security forces, and it is becoming more and more a matter of view – "in the foreground" I would not say yet – of the department and the respective Federal Minister and is also significantly operated. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for that. I now turn to President Puttinger for another word: Right at the beginning of his remarks, he referred to the East-West case as regards the detention of arrest and detention in Austria. I thought he was making a critical remark about the great discrepancy. But see, his conclusion was quite different, namely: Hoppala, in the west of Austria, is not being locked up enough, but we need the figures given in the east. I can only say to his defence and to his apologies that he is probably dealing with security issues only once a year, and that is when he talks about this, and the time for preparation is obviously very short. I can only understand that. Ladies and gentlemen! The U-port reform has finally led us to the European middle field with regard to the number of prisoners in Austria, away from the position of the European final light. If a government party here implicitly complains that these results are not good, then I do not understand because these judicial measures have been very successful in recent years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But now a few words on the issue of Kurdistan and Kurds in Austria. All that has happened in Austria in the last two and a half weeks – the activities of the Austrian security forces, the activities of some political leaders – shows that there is only one way to resolve the Kurdish problem from our side: to enter into a dialogue! What else, ladies and gentlemen, can we as Austrian politicians do in the sense of security in Austria and the defence of dangers or dangers to the Austrian population? And the Austrian population belongs to the domestics, but also to the Kurds and Turks who live in Austria, whether they are already Austrian citizens or not, whether they are with us as a guest worker or just recently arrived. The dangers and dangers are, if they exist, given to all. That is why the appeal after de-escalation and the appeal, as the Minister of the Federal Government has recently brought him into his statement, is correct, namely, the appeal to enter into a dialogue with the 40 000 Kurds living in Austria, i.e. not with each one but with the groups representing the interests. They all have a common – far from the PKK and also far from the direct political organisation – interest in solving the Kurdistan question and the problems of the Kurds, especially in Turkey, but not only in Turkey, also in Iran and Iraq. Therefore, any initiative such as a "round table", a peace dialogue or a discussion with the interested Kurds in Austria is absolutely to be welcomed, promoted and finally institutionalized. It must not be the case that it is left to individual committed persons in public life to do so, because it is a task of politics and of the National Council to take this into consideration. And that could be the goal of today's discussion. We could conclude today what our common concern is; far from all the extremely different positions that exist in this area between ÖVP and SPÖ, I do not mention the liberals in this respect, since they have not yet expressed themselves constructively in any way. So that's what could come out, and that's what I hear from Karl Schlögl's words. None of this I heard from the words of the security spokesman of the ÖVP, Kiss, but he denunifies. He is thinking exactly what would be appropriate now: that one seeks the conversation, that one should seek dialogue, that one initiates round tables. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't want any more dialogue!]] This is completely incomprehensible to me, because that, my dear colleague Kiss, is driving the spiral up. That is exactly what is calling for those who now also act extremistally and terroristally. This can now have causes of a variety of kinds: That can be a blackout, which can simply come from a deep emotion. Nothing of this can be apologised or defended by us. Criminal offences – that is why we live in a rule of law – are persecuted, they are sanctioned, regardless of who they are committed, whether they are Kurds, whether they are Turkish or whether they are Austrian. – I hope that’s consensus here! But, Mr Kiss, is it not understandable that exactly those who had to flee their country, because the conditions and conditions are the way they are – as we know them from Turkey for example – that exactly those in Austria are doing everything to make these conditions public, that they are working here in order to achieve that these conditions are being removed in their country? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Emergency by force majeure!]] This is what makes people use of the constitutional right to demonstrate. However, from all the contributions by the EIA – I am not talking about the liberals at all now, because they say it openly anyway – I am implicitly listening to this warning: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're talking about us for a while!]] Yeah, can they still do that? Can they even go on the road, the Kurds in Austria? – Yes, where do we come from when, for example, the freedom of assembly and the right to demonstrations are called into question in this context? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Kurds already, but not the PKK!]] – That, ladies and gentlemen, worries me the most! That is why I conclude that the National Council should focus its initiatives on where you, Mr Federal Minister, are actually successful. At this point I have to make a critical comment on your previous reading. So I'm just scared when I heard you interpret Abdullah Öcalan's arrest in Kenya. You have literally said: He was arrested and brought to Turkey by Turkish security forces. - Yeah, if that wasn't a lupen-clean kidnapping, then what? I do not know what understanding you have of what this has been, Minister of State. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: There were other things already, you didn't puddle up like that!]] And that's it, this tone is the one that makes the music! It is precisely these assessments! Therefore, you will never be credible in international bodies if you demand: Make Öcalan a fair process in Turkey! A fair trial, please, if you say before, he was arrested and brought to Turkey by Turkish security forces. The one thing just excludes the other! [[Abg. Murauer: Of course, a fair process must be demanded!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are some minimal things we could do. As a House, we could make a unanimous appeal to our government and to our foreign politicians, but also to nationally active politicians, to do everything to bring the problem of death penalty and Turkey much more vehemently to the international tapet. [[Abg. Murauer: You are the personified innocence lamb!]] Peter Schieder described what the Council of Europe has done here. I have the impression, however, that Turkey does not even hit an earwash in Austrian. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] But as long as she has the whole USA and NATO as a shield, so to speak, it doesn't impress anyone. But there is not only the possibility of the Council of Europe, there is also the OSCE, there is also the UN, and there are possibilities to speak a clear language even in terms of economic and other political contacts. – And that could be a result of today’s debate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I must come back to this standstill of the demand for a fair procedure for Öcalan. In a country where its own prosecutor, the Istanbul Procuratorate, has brought 70 cases of torture in one and a half years and 245 cases of abuse to the court, it is really not possible to believe that it is fair, decent and to the ECHR in accordance. [[Abg. Murauer: Take him up in your ranks! With the PKK!]] That is why active and concrete measures must now be taken on the table and not just lip confession. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6733	The honourable Member's friend has also been reported to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6754	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, SPÖ Justice spokesman Jarolim has again advocated further mergers of district courts. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it?- Oh, my God!]] I am against this – and I would like to expressly say this here – because it would lead to a further thinning of the rural area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the safety report because the safety report is a comprehensive and objective reflection in the field of internal security in Austria. The facts collected form the basis for the direction of future Austrian security policy, and security is very important to the Austrian population. In principle, it can be said that overall crime has continued to decline in line with the trend since the early 1990s and that the education rate has increased. In contrast, however, there are areas which are not so pleasing, such as the development in the field of tow-and-frozenness. There are two aspects which I particularly accept. First of all – objectively – the tow industry has increased sharply in recent years. Secondly – subjectively – I am particularly affected by the fact that, as an oberösterreichian Member of Parliament, border crossings from the Czech Republic are increasing and, on the other hand, the figures in the security report show that the proportion of foreign crime is above average in this region. In 1997, a total of 13,432 persons were picked up by the border army, the federal army, customs and the Federal Police, and in 1998 there were almost 20,000. – I would like to thank the border army, the customs guard and the federal army for the great achievements and the efforts that have been and are being made here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The refugees are mainly from the Yugoslav Federation, Romania, Iraq and Iran. About half of all illegal violations are carried out across the border with Hungary, the rest mainly via the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Italy to Austria. A development is particularly striking, namely the increase of organized towing troops by professional tractors. If there were still a third of all refugees travelling with tractors in 1997, half of all refugees were already in high economic demand for the tractors in 1998. Meanwhile, the vast majority of the illegals – almost 10,000 towed ones – are being dragged into the country by organized towing troops. The individual towing forces are becoming more and more professional, a fact already mentioned in the 1997 safety report. And as the 1998 figures confirm, this is likely to be even stronger in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! By the turn of the millennium, this development will certainly be a highlight. However, a billion-dollar business has already become out of the tow business if it has not become the most lucrative business of organized crime at all. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] However, the changed situation also requires an amended strategy in the fight. In order to deal with the problem of illegal immigration in the long term, there is a need for a massive deal to be fought against towing. This demand has been raised by the ÖVP for a long time and time and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore ask you, Minister of State, to take this development into account in the orientation of future security policy. A first step has already been taken: With 1. In April a 30-member mobile force, the so-called Task Force, takes up its service in the State Army Command of Lower Austria. The aim of this special unit is to track down and track tow tires. I am also seeking to create the legal and factual possibilities for the task force to be used in the Upper Austrian area if necessary. Effective control of tractor rings can only be achieved through increased flexibility and improved cooperation in executives. It is necessary for the federal government to provide sufficient personnel and the technical equipment to be fully used in order to continue to succeed. I would like to make another point in this security debate, and I am pleased, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the introduction of the digital radio network, called the Adonis project, will be referred to as the priority programme for the coming year. The current radio system has long since ceased to meet today's requirements. The new project Adonis is the system of the future. According to current planning in the Ministry of the Interior, the use of the radio system is limited to the interior, i.e. only for federal police or federal army. However, I believe, Minister of State, that it makes a lot of sense for reasons of efficiency and safety, if all the intervention groups, including neighbouring and Bavarian, are integrated into the new radio system, i.e. the judicial guard, customs guard, the federal army and the entire blue light organizations such as rescue and fire brigade. Estimated Minister of State! I would therefore ask you to start negotiations as soon as possible on extending the new radio system to all deployment groups. The Austrian and cross-border cooperation in the field of security and civil protection would greatly benefit from this century project. We should therefore take advantage of our opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6834	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6855	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Schieder asked me to apologize to Mr Leikam. That is why I would like to say a few words about this, although it does not actually fit on the subject. You from SPÖ – Mr Schieder is unfortunately not present at the moment – and perhaps also to you on the statement, Mr Leikam: They really tend to see only the reactions of a course of action, but not the action. Once you have taken this one-sided approach and have also dealt with the action, you would see that it is really a very bad accusation made by Mr Leikam, namely that the force of freedom would have sought and used to enforce your political objectives. – That you can’t let that happen, I think you’ll see that too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would really like this sensitivity to be borne by you once and for all, what your own comments are about, and that you would not always point to others with your finger. I think it would be time for Mr Leikam to apologize and say that it was an overwhelming response. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: No!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now to the item on the agenda, to the Kurds' demonstrations. [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] But You weren't inside at all. You don't know anything, Mrs Karlsson. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Of course I was inside!]] Okay, then you know exactly anyway. Then you're talking about better knowledge, and I'm just as sad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very strong debate yesterday... [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Please don't squeak! It's impossible for me to talk. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] We held a very strong debate on justice yesterday, and the Minister of Justice has had to face very serious accusations. You, Mr Minister, have acted as if these accusations, namely that judicial decisions are also taken in the light of political backgrounds, would be completely absurd. You rejected that vehemently. You said you should prove where the political action has been. – And now I am going to tell you, both ministers, how you have acted politically in the case of Kurd demonstrations. Minister Michalek! Minister Schlögl! Anyone who would have behaved in a similar way to those Kurds who occupied the Greek message and took hostages there would have to answer the suspicion of taking hostages according to § 102 criminal code with a penalty threat of ten to 20 years. There would of course have been a request from the executive authorities to impose the arrest, even in view of the threat that further acts of violence will be carried out in the shield. This is the classic reason for the danger of action or the risk of repetition. Of course, the executive would have involved the prosecutor's office, and a hundred percent would have also come to the request for investigative detention. In this case, there has been no application for arrest, even the staff have not even been included in the UN occupation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Not even the staff! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sika, has negotiated free conduct so that nothing can happen to the demonstrators. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The hostage!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the letter bomb attacks, you immediately submitted the request for house search due to a confiscated list of subscribers of the "Aula". House searches have been carried out in 90 years of age, in half-blind and half-hearted persons! That's where you went straight. But in the other case, the executive has been blind on one eye. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With what right, Minister of the Interior Schlögl, do you say that it has been taken by any means common to and applied in a rule of law? What right do you claim that Austria did not like these acts of violence? [[Calls and calls between the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Smolle! Sit down!]] On the contrary! A senior executive official said that at the UN was not a break of peace, but it was just a visit. One has visited the UN with violent actions! A police officer has been seriously injured, Minister Schlögl. Only after I don't know how many days the advertisement has been refunded. This cop is still with a severe brain shake, with serious injuries at home. But there you were extremely hesitant! Above all the barrel has knocked out the soil at the time the withdrawal of the Green-Deputy Pilz and today still your praise for the Green-Deputy Pilz. Mr. Pilz has once, as far as I know, been sentenced for refusal of military service – a call for refusal of military service – he was the leader of the opera ball demonstrators who took action there with benign violence. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Call to refuse military service!]] Cars have been lit! And this is what the security executive calls for when it comes to a violent demonstration! This is really an evidence of poverty for Austrian security policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you say again: That's the Austrian way!, then I can only say: Good night, Austria! Because if we need the Green-Randalier Pilz to proceed in this way, Minister, then I think you can pack up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Please make sure that your high police officers are trained so that they can solve such violent demonstrations without a former Communist and Green Deputies, Opera ball leader Pilz! In addition, Mr Minister, take an example of your social democratic colleague Schily and Schröder in the Federal Republic of Germany. They have said that such violent agents who do not comply with our laws are to be polite, but certainly to show the boundaries and say: Please leave our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7013	Mr Schwarzenberger has once been given a call for order because of the use of the Nazi function name "Führer". I therefore give you, Mrs Karlsson, a call for an order, because You just spoke in an intermediate call of "a quote from your leader, a quote from Jörg Haider". For the same reason, after considering the minutes, I declare an order for a yesterday's incident, in which Mr Jarolim used the word "great leader" twice. [[Abg. Smolle: Little Führer!]] Mr Wabl wishes to see an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7052	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé, in her incredible "objectivity" and "redunciation" as a judge, has always held that there are several offences which can be blamed on Mr Peter Pilz, Member of the Greens in the Town Hall. None of these crimes has been committed in fact, there are no convictions in this context, in particular the accusation of condemnation for refusal of military service... [[Call the Freemen: Call for refusal of military service!]] Read it in the minutes! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: She improved it then!]] Read it! Peter Pilz has done the civil service to my knowledge, and that is why it is not possible at all. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I know the precision of your accusations. I never want to get into the hands of a courthouse where you're a judge!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7130	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7152	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is time to make a few things right or clear in this House. Mr Stadler has expressed himself very loudly on this, but all the liberals will refuse to do so. I have to say: If there is a disregard for this House, then it is the one to belong to the House as a Member and to be permanently absent. I would like to give you an example: While we are sitting here in Parliament and, of course, we are fulfilling our obligation as Members, today Mr Haider – 25. Feber, Jörg's coming! – in Waidmannsdorf, in Viktring Benedictinermarkt, Wölfnitz, Fischl, St. Ruprecht and Volksmarkt, opens election campaign events, registers a salary as a Member and is not even present here in the House. [[Ongoing calls for tender in the liberals]] He's ashamed of himself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: When is the event?]] All the events start at midnight, Mr Haigermoser, that's quite clear! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Maybe you're going to the event so you can learn something!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Coming back to the agenda item before the debate, I would like to clarify the following point – which is very important to me –: We have succeeded in submitting a request in the course of the debate on the security report, which is about the law on guard services, where, I believe, we have recognized the urgent need for all those guards who fall victim to training to receive appropriate financial assistance. We have managed to increase the original amount from 1 million schilling to 1.5 million schilling. I believe that this is more than just and good and that it is very good for these officials. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, if we have to expect that during this debate, a request from Mr Lammer will be made here, in which there will be: No, not from 1 million shillings to 1.5 million shillings, the amount should be increased, but the 1.5 million shillings must be removed, we demand 3 million shillings, so I must say: This is a cheap licensing, that is populism, that it is no longer annoyed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the safety report a few comments. I really think it is positive that in Austria we can see a falling crime and have an increasing awareness rate. I wish, however, that the security debate should be held more seriously in the future, because when I think about the committee negotiations, I recall arguments such as: If there were more weapons in the households, there would be fewer collapses! To this end, I must say: I cannot take this seriously, coming from a Member's mouth, and that is so shallow and forward-looking that it is not annoyed. Second point: More and more control is required. I believe that the surveillance state cannot be the future and that its own responsible citizens must be in the foreground. Third and very essential point – and I would like to say that: In future, we should be much more concerned about the causes of the debate on security issues. As an example, I can tell you: It is not just a question of talking about how high the number of crimes is. I quote now from an investigation carried out by the World Health Organization: In 20 percent of cases of child abuse, 75 percent of all violent crimes, 50 percent of accidents at work, 30 percent of suicides, and 40 percent of divorces or divorces, alcohol is responsible. I believe that it is important that, in future, when we deal with security issues, we also deal with this problem, because the increasing number of cases of alcohol abuse in Austria also leads to an increasing number of crimes and disasters within society.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7224	The next speaker is Mr Moser. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7246	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous debate has shown that we have to discuss a wide range of facts, starting with the Kurds' activities on the security report up to the issues of foreign policy, and it would have been really necessary if the President-in-Office had carried out a breakdown and not a summary of these items. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] I call on the President-in-Office of the Council to take this into account and to agree in the next presidential term that in future we will be able to discuss the various items on the agenda separately, because they are worthy of comprehensive discussion. My two colleagues from my group have been concerned in particular with the statement made by the Minister for the Interior. It would indeed have made sense if we had not only heard a statement by the Minister of the Interior today, but also if the Foreign Minister had given an opinion on this question here. . because this question is a deep political, foreign and European question, and we should therefore take this debate from this wait. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] I would just like to highlight the Kurdish problem very briefly from my point of view as a security speaker. I have already said that the Kurdish question, from my point of view, is a profoundly European question and a political one to be solved. It must therefore be resolved politically, because it has an impact on the security of our continent, both internal and external security. [[Abg. Young: You are a real European!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: If Europe, if the European Union does not succeed in resolving this issue, then peace on the European continent is at risk. I have said that we must resolve this question politically. To solve the political situation means to engage in a dialogue about it. This dialogue must be conducted by Turkey and Turkey as well as by the Kurds. If the dialogue with the Kurd representatives is conducted, I think we should strengthen those forces – and that would be in the greatest interest of us Europeans and of the States of the European Union – which are also committed to our political, democratic values which are committed to democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. These forces within the Kurdish People's Group must be strengthened, and I hope that all those who have the talks with the PKK and with the ERNK – and we know that this is a terrorist organisation with a communist ideological orientation – will also engage in dialogue with those who seek the dialogue, for example, which are committed to democracy and the rule of law, to the territorial integrity of Turkey. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the safety report. It is true - I have already said this in the Committee's deliberations - that in Austria we have seen a positive development in the field of crime in principle, that we have had a very stable crime rate in Austria for years and that the information rate is also increasing. But that is no reason, as I believe, to reject us, and that is no reason to say that everything is fine anyway and we do not necessarily need to take reform steps. Necessary reform steps are blocked each other in the Grand Coalitionary Brothers' Controversy, in dispute: If you don't give me – for example – my STAPO reform, you won't get the army news service reform! [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Do you support me in the STAPO reform?]] I support you in the STAPO reform, Minister of State. I'll come back to that. So: Reforms are necessary, and I appeal that, in the interests of the security of our country and also in the interests of the executives, who carry out their work very well and very successfully – I do not think that the executives will take the necessary steps to reform their impeccable performance, which they perform to express praise and recognition. Federal Minister! What's it all about? – We need structural reform in the area of Austrian executives. This is really a question of improving the use of existing forces, of better structuring the organization, of reducing or avoiding double-tracking, of reducing the number of higher bars, of higher services in favour of strengthening the executives on the ground, for example, of gender army posts or of police warehousing tubes, and of strengthening them. But this requires appropriate reform, and I do not want to say: Although both executive guards, police and gendarmerie, have been growing historically, many years have passed since then, and it would therefore be useful to put these guards together. I do not want to say, Mr Federal Minister, that the STAPO reform has long been due. In an intermediate call she was mentioned earlier. It has been announced by your predecessor, Mr. Federal Minister, by Mr. Lösnak, Minister of the Interior, and also by you, Minister of the Interior. I regret that it has not yet been implemented or has been implemented. The structural reform must also be carried out in conjunction with the necessary legal basis. Because one thing is clear: The threat we are currently facing in connection with the Kurdish question of terrorism shows that it is very likely that it is necessary to be able to take preventive security and security measures. We expect a dialogue, discussions and documents to be held at parliamentary level, and we hope that this reform and the amendment to the Security Police Act will not, as it is unfortunately, be postponed to the time of the next legislative period. Structural reform is also needed in the field of state police. This is a matter of summarising the existing categories of operations to focus the existing services accordingly. So far, I've only heard statements like: Yes, we do something similar to a Federal Criminal Office! But so far, every concrete presentation of the actual projects is missing. I now come to another area where it is also about making the work of our executives more efficient, namely the question of the border army and the situation we are currently at our borders. On the one hand, it is positive if illegal border crossings can be prevented when attacks occur, and it is also gratifying that the tugs, which use the misery and misery of the people in a really evil way, are still taking advantage of this criminal "help", are picked up on the other hand, but on the other hand, how urgently necessary the expansion of our border army is. This is not only to be seen in the Connex with the assistance of the Federal Army, but also with the fact that the executive should be able to carry out these security police tasks alone. Security police tasks are matters of the interior, are matters of executive, but are matters of the federal army at most in the form of assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no need for assistance to go over eight or nine years now. This is no longer a means of assistance, but it is a sluggish change of the Federal Force's duties into an activity for which the federal army is not really intended from the constitution. Federal Minister! I expect you to do everything you can to ensure that there is an efficient border army capable of carrying out the border control tasks accordingly. [[Abg. Scheibner: If we abolish the federal army, we have to set up a border army!]] The German army should be used and used for assistance only if there is a need to do so, for example, if one recognizes in an assessment of the situation that the towing routes are changing. We are currently familiar with the towing routes across Hungary, Slovakia and also the Czech Republic. As has been said, if a change becomes apparent, then there is the possibility of demanding a short-term reinforcement from the Federal Government. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I know that you do not like to hear this – it will be necessary, since it is not really the task of the army to replace it with the Federal Government. That is what the Federal Government is calling for. These additional tasks of the Federal Army or of this additional mission to the Federal Army, which goes beyond the normal task of the Federal Army in times of peace, must be honoured accordingly by a special budget. At present, the resources needed for this are at the expense of the necessary training and therefore at the expense of the efficiency of the federal army. Moreover, they go at the expense of modern equipment and equipment of the federal army, and it is expected that the Federal Force's willingness to use will be reduced. The importance of a modern federal army shows the requirements to the German army in the context of disaster aid and other assistance services. Ladies and gentlemen! One final point, which is particularly dear to my heart, concerns the question of training and the question of the internal leadership of the executive. Federal Minister! In my view, the safety report shows alarming information, particularly in connection with complaints against executive officials. If we compare these figures from the 1995 to 1997 reports, we can see that the number of complaints against executive officials is rising, and unfortunately also those of legitimate complaints. In the order of magnitude, it looks like about 15 percent of complaints against executive officials are entitled. In my opinion, this is too high a share, too high a percentage! What is still unfortunate is the fact that, for example, in a single group, which is to be read in the security report, in the Federal Army, 92 complaints were lodged in 1995 and that this number already doubled in 1997 to 190. Federal Minister! There are measures to be taken in the field of internal management, and it will be necessary to give greater attention to this area through targeted training. I hope that it will soon be possible to create a security academy, which can or must take over this task. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7326	Mr Gaál has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7362	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the safety report, and the figures and facts show quite clearly: They confirm a downward trend in crime. Not only in 1997 we had to record this, but already in the years before, there was a continuous crime decline in Austria. [[Abg. Young: But not in your home district!]] – This also applies to favorites! This is one of the safest districts in the very safe city of Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: You could make a real correction, Mr. Cot.]] The education rate is well over 50 percent in Austria. It has fallen by 0.8% compared to 1996. [[Abg. Young: (a colorful graphic in height) Deep red!]] If you take the statistics literally, then have to They also take account of the fact that all criminal acts carried out in the field of U1 are ultimately observed at Reumannplatz, and all of them go to the Commissioner's favorites. In the district itself, we have very good security conditions. People are very happy to live in this district, it is a sought-after residential district. People feel comfortable and secure, and this is due to the security conditions. Deep red – I always notice this in the elections – is also right! So you feel comfortable in my home district, but also generally in this city. People feel well and secure throughout Austria, and this is due to the excellent work done by the executive staff. The officials do an excellent job! This proves, as has already been said, the figures of statistics, including with regard to youth crime. – Minister of State! I would simply like to thank these ladies and gentlemen for this. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, in order to continue this successful work, there is also a need for human and technical investment. Our priority is, of course, to bring even more police on the street. As far as Vienna is concerned, we can see a slight increase in staff. Even if there are only small increases, it is possible to carry out staff increases in some of the watchrooms in Vienna. The modernisation projects in the IT area of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna are also very positive to be assessed. In order for us to continue this path together, there is also a need here in the National Council for support from the Federal Minister when it comes, for example, to obtaining new posts for his department when it comes to improving the financial situation in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! In the interests of comprehensive security, allow me to address two areas here very briefly, namely civil protection and rescue. In the field of civil protection as an active protection of the population, together with the Federal Ministry of the Interior in the 1,600 self-protection information centres, we are training and training the population, the interested citizens, about correct behaviour in emergency situations, and together with the intervention organisations, so that they can survive situations without harm as far as possible. Of course, the rescue is also important. With this rescue operation, the Inner Region is making a significant contribution to helping people in need and is becoming increasingly important in the context of the development of the Alpine regions for tourism and the constant increase in road transport. Ten new rescue helicopters have to be purchased for the operation of the seven German Federal Ministry of the Interior. The Federal Minister is trying to obtain funding for this. – Minister of State! We will support you in this. Ladies and gentlemen! To save at this point would be the wrong signal! This is, after all, about the saving of human life, so the Minister of State has our full support for it! We want to continue this successful path in security policy together, and I would like to ask you to do this joint work to ensure that this cooperation is shared in the future. In this sense, of course, the safety report has our full support.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7441	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7462	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate quite closely, and I have the feeling that, for example, what has been said by many speakers on Kurds in Austria, many continue to see the problem with the Kurds, and not with what is the real problem, namely a state terrorism to the population, which is not only a fatal tradition in Turkey but in several countries. This terrorism has a disastrous tradition. You can probably remember that at the beginning of this century, under the silent tolerance of all Europe, which simply watched Turkey – even in this case it was Turkey! – has eliminated a ethnic group in its area. These were not the Kurds at the time, they were the Armenians. Europe has been watching, and Austria in particular has by no means been awarded a glorious policy. There has been a writer who has condemned exactly this inactivity of Austria and Europe, because he has not been able to hold on to it anymore in view of this inactivity. That was Franz Werfel, and he made a very famous novel out of it. If I pursue this debate, I sometimes feel that everything is repeated, only on a different level. It is still being done as if it were really our most pressing problem, that the Kurds who live here in this country and the Kurds who are not in that country, but in Turkey, should be quiet. [[Abg. Young: Our most pressing problem is the safety of Austrians!]] Mr. Jung! I believe that it has been convincingly explained that we have a European problem. [[Abg. Young, too!]] Whether that was the Armenians, whether these are the Kurds, it is a European problem! We can't close our eyes. We still have a problem, even if we close them, just as we have done so before, because the Austrian attitude to foreign policy towards Turkey or to the Kurdish problem was as sparse as the policies of the other European countries. Then we have a problem of refugees who will, of course, try to find refuge somewhere. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are immigrations, not refugees!]] This was partly due to the problem of the Kurds in Austria: they had to flee from other countries, mainly Turkey. It was and is therefore completely legitimate for these people, not only to seek work but also political asylum, if one knows about the nearer circumstances of their persecution in Turkey, but also in Iraq, Iran and the other countries where there are Kurdish minorities. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are not refugees!]] I do not just want to make Turkey a problem out of the Kurdish problem. It's a lot more complex, I'm clear. But to pretend, as if we were actually only here for the Austrians living here in this country, that we would have security, as if a separation of internal policy and foreign policy would be possible, that is wrong! [[Abg. Young: For the Austrians first!]] We need – and this is the problem we have – a coordination between internal and external policies. And what we have called for was that at these two levels of internal and external policy the policy of dialogue, opening up and understanding of the problems of these groups is being forced, especially in foreign policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But today the Minister of the Interior is here, not the Foreign Minister!]] But what we are experiencing is more the reverse trend, and this is my slight criticism of the position of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs: that the attitude of European foreign policy, as well as the attitude of some other European ministers of the Interior, namely the harsh policy towards the Kurds, because there are also economic interests at stake in certain countries, threatens to overwhelm Austria. And I'd like to warn you about that. You of the Freemans are exactly the ones who want to push the Minister of the Interior into this corner with your sharper policy! [[Abg. Young: Who's the sniper?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Schily! What about the Schily?- Oh, my God!]] If, for example, your colleague Holger Bauer says – he said it in an interlocutory call – that you should move the Kurds where they came from, then this is not only cynical, immense and humane, but it also contradicts the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are not just refugees!]] It contradicts in every respect the Convention on Human Rights that people who are persecuted in a country who are threatened with persecution, who are partly threatened with the death penalty in that country, are being deported to that very country! [[Abg. Young: These are not just persecuted!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: These are immigrants who have been there for years!]] These are the principles I am sure of, that they are almost all here in this country and in this House! Only with you from the liberals do we not have this in common. This is the problem we have with you in this debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: Minister of the Interior Schily, from which comes the expression!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: wasn't Schily even a greener?- Oh, my God!]] This is a fundamental problem. You should, if you already have difficulties recognizing these human rights conventions, at least once pass through accepting that these human rights conventions are, nevertheless, our legal system and that we have to fulfil them. Regardless of how foreign-friendly or hostile they are, most people have a very good sense that people who have been persecuted are at risk of death – and that is the Kurds in Turkey – here in Austria must find appropriate support. [[Abg. Young: Here people are threatened with death!]] They should also accept from the liberals, which is also a fact that we also have an Austrian "problem" (problem under quotation marks) on this point, as many of these Kurds are thanks to God, also Austrian citizens. [[Abg. Young: With lack of loyalty to Austria!]] They are Austrian citizens. We therefore also have the obligation – just as we did with the South Tyroleans – to represent here certain interests which are their interests and also ours, together at another level. It is about human rights, Mr Jung, and these are indivisible – whether they are Kurdistan or Austrian human rights. [[Abg. Scheibner: I hear this from you for the first time!]] [[Abg. Young: I am particularly concerned about the safety of Austrians!]] Member of Parliament, young man! We are debating the Kurds problem, which is a problem of the Turkish state, for which our Foreign Minister on the one hand calls for a fair procedure. On the other hand, the media are full of the fact that not only the PKK members are being persecuted by the Turkish army, but also that the members of the moderate Kurdish procurd party HADEP are arrested to hundreds and thousands in Turkey. They're being arrested and put behind bars! If one could say at least that we distinguish between the so-called good and the so-called evil Kurds – one is the PKK members, and the other are, so to speak, those who have committed themselves to political dialogue – if one could say so, then it would be good. But it's not possible anymore. It is not because of this either, Mr Jung, because the problem of the Kurdish people and the struggle for its interests is only – and there is an international agreement – made by the PKK a a publicly visible problem in Europe – whether we are right or not. I could bring you quotes from the "New Zurich Newspaper" now. There you may have a little more understanding when the "New Zurich Newspaper" writes about it than when it says by the honourable Member Ollinger. I could read these quotes to you, which are in the "New Zurich Newspaper" for example, that it was the PKK and no one else who brought the Kurdish problem with vehemence to the public. [[Abg. Young: That's right! But that's why I don't need terror in Austria!]] I could also read to you the quote from the "New Zurich Newspaper" which says about the PKK – I quote –: "A ideological..." – Thank you! [[Abg. Marxism! Violence as a possible means of achieving the objectives!]] Marxism! I'll read you the quote. You gave me the keyword. It means here – I quote –: "The ideological assignment of the PKK is difficult." – You seem to have it, this assignment! – "Today, Öcalan can be classified as a pragmatic socialist. From the original goal of a Kurdish state it is far removed. Since 1993, he has been promoting a federalist solution within the state borders of Turkey and the need for a ceasefire. So far, the Turkish government objected to the argument that a terrorist was not allowed to negotiate." – End of the quote. This can be read in the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" of 22. December. In another newspaper, in "Die Zeit", it is worth reading, Mr Jung – and I do not think that you will be very contradicting – what an Iraqi Kurd writes about the problem of Kurds in Turkey. Mr. Namo Aziz is a writer and said that his problem is the following: Wherever he wants to explain and make the Kurdish problem a public problem – in Germany and in other European countries – he is always answered: But the PKK! You need to distance yourself from the PKK! – He says he doesn't understand this problem. He does not understand this problem insofar as it is clear: It was the PKK that made the Kurds' interests a public problem! [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: With blood on your hands!]] He also does not understand that the fact that 30 000 people have been victims of this war in Turkey is not primarily a problem of the PKK, but one of the Turkish state. In 12 years, 30,000 Kurds were murdered. All this is now trying to push Öcalan into the shoes, although it is clear: The fact that 3 000 villages have been cleared and equalized to the ground falls under the responsibility of the Turkish government. [[Abg. Young: Yesterday you defended the Turkish government, Mr. Cot!]] Namo Aziz then asks – I quote –: "Where are the Europeans who have made themselves strong in recent years for those who are all too often forgotten in this conflict? To ask about the many thousands of unloving journalists and intellectuals who are imprisoned and tortured, about the pregnant Kurds whose children are publicly driven to the belly by water pressure, or about the many suicides of humiliated Kurds after having to eat the fecals of the security forces. The list of examples is, as human rights organisations confirm, long, terrible long!" - Quote. I think what Mr Namo Aziz writes should give us some thought. As we all hope in this House, if human rights violations happen in ex-Yugoslavia, just as we are outraged and concerned, and here we call for political action to be taken in this country in order to restore human rights, we should also be concerned that justice befalls not only Turkey, but also Austria, those Kurds who are committed to these human rights in Turkey, Iran and Iraq. [[Abg. Young: But not with petrol canisters!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! What I heard from your side in this debate was always: The PKK is the problem. I repeat: It is not the cause of this problem, but a consequence of what has happened in these countries. It is a consequence of the fact that several countries have been running terrorism there for decades. It should cause us to establish a link between an internal policy and an external policy, which, with a lot of attention, with much patience and also with some sympathy – sometimes, unfortunately, only too hidden, Minister of the Interior, for these sentences you have said, in which you wanted to express your distance, for example: "He's been arrested!", are sentences that should not fall – is operated. It should be clear to all of us: For us this is a sympathy, a party to human rights and, in so far as it is an Austrian problem, when it is necessary for human rights not only to be respected in Turkey but also in Austria, and also to those Kurds who want to assert their human rights towards Turkey and other countries. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smolle]] This also requires the party of an Interior Minister and a lot of support!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7797	Mr Achs has now been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7819	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been confirmed repeatedly today that we live in Austria in a very safe country. This is very clear and clear from the 1997 Security Report. Nevertheless, further efforts must be made to combat especially the internationally organised crime. Trafficking in human beings and tow-backs must already be stopped at the Austrian border in order to stop the organized gangs. We are concerned with providing the Austrians with protection and security. Since the opening of the East and the accession of Austria to the EU, the situation has changed again. As a political leader, we are called upon to oppose negative developments and to ensure the necessary framework conditions in time. Modern crime can only be achieved successfully through cross-border cooperation and through the use of technical investigation methods. Organized crime is becoming more and more a threat to society. Internationalising the groups of perpetrators and cross-state criminal activities also require a more coordinated approach by the authorities. Especially the crime mobility caused by the opening of the eastern border requires cross-border cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is particularly affected by its geographical situation and the associated external border of illegal migration. The EU's eastern border is two thirds in Austria, with the Burgenland affected in particular by 380 kilometres of external border. We in the Burgenland therefore find very difficult conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! Our border control is extremely successful in the area of illegal immigration. That too must be said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore do not understand the statements made by GÖD Chairman Fritz Neugebauer and the President of the German Federal Council, who is coming from Lower Austria, and the statements of the Chairman of the Executive in Lower Austria, Franz Haydter. They say, on the one hand, that only 10 to 20 percent of the illegals are seized, and on the other hand, there are statements that the Austrian borders are open like a barn door. I cannot understand these statements, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to say that such statements are certainly not expected from a coalition partner, because reality looks quite different. [[Abg. Young: Is reality, though!]] There are quite different facts. [[Abg. Young: If there were?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Gendarmerie, the German army and customs guard are doing good work in Austria. It is not least thanks to Minister Schlögl's efforts to ensure that this cooperation with all these organisations works so well. As proof of good cooperation, I would like to point out the example of the Burgenland, the cooperation of the Minister of the Interior with the head of state in Burgenland. Finally, winners of this positive and good cooperation, this good cooperation is the citizens of Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be in Lower Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7874	Mr Scheibner is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7901	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl, I do not know what you are looking forward to. [[Abg. Wabl: That you are responding to state terrorism!]] I would like, Mr Wabl, to make a clear commitment to the freedom of violence and to the support of democracy and freedom and human rights wherever there are violations in these areas. Mr Wabl, if such activists fit you into the political calculation, if they are located in the extremely left-wing spectrum – and we have often discussed this here – then everything is allowed, then everything is beautified, then it is destroyed, then it is said of nonviolence, then everything is not so bad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But woe, something happens in a spectrum that doesn't fit you. Then we do not need to think about whether in Austria the presumption of innocence applies to every citizen, whether an unpunished citizen only because he is a subscriber of any newspaper, has to carry out house searches over himself. You can't hear a scream. But for Mr Öcalan and other rulers who have committed themselves to the enforcement of legitimate objectives, there are these statements. And if a political group such as ours cannot take note of the fact that the ministers have been praised by the ministers of the mission to embassies, where hostages have been taken, where there has been damage, where it has been threatened to set houses on fire, and if we do not commend, Mr Leikam goes out and says this – it is the protocol; the annoyance of Mrs Partik-Pablé was only too understandable – "... if a party such as the Freedom Party is also applying violence to the implementation of its political objectives." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is unheard of!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Even you, Mrs Karlsson, must admit that this statement has been scandalous. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Come down and justify this!]] "...if a party such as the Freedom Party is also applying violence to the implementation of its political objectives," said Mr Leikam. I have not heard such a thing here from representatives of your group from this speaker's point of view. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] It is not for the liberals to apologise – and I hope that Mr Schieder will also read this protocol – but Mr Leikam needs a very great deal of action. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course – and this should also be said here – the problem of Kurds in Turkey and the neighbouring countries is also a European problem, because it was Europe, it was the victory powers after the First World War that caused this problem. At the time, the Kurds were denied their own state by arbitrary border crossing, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: That's not true! At that time you assured the Kurds their own territory!]] There was a Kurd state for a short time, but it was immediately overrun by the neighbouring states. Of course, we also have the responsibility to show human rights violations everywhere, where they exist, and to influence Turkey, that these human rights violations are stopped and belong to the past. Only if there are such occasions – the Council of Europe has already been quoted today – do you wonder where these clear activities are, where the clear language, including the Social Democrats, remains. The Social Democratic Group is also the largest group in the Council of Europe – Mr Schieder is chairman. Today, only the resolution on Turkey was mentioned, but there was also a resolution by the Council of Europe on the Kurdish problem, which was decided in June, i.e. a resolution of the organization that has set itself the goal of defending human rights in Europe. Interestingly, the PKK is strongly condemned in a sentence as a violent and terrorist organisation. Through Turkey, in fact, this resolution merely states that the Assembly welcomes the activities of Turkish organisations and parties seeking to secure human rights in Turkey. However, it is clear that this is a national problem, which is also to be solved internally. Turkey is invited to protect minorities in its own country and to ensure that the Kurdish population is protected in its territory and in security. "Turkish is invited", ladies and gentlemen! – This is the only reaction of the State community because it does not want to get upset with Turkey. Here in Parliament and on other occasions, people are very committed to human rights and the Kurds, but when it comes to enlargement of the EU or immigration issues, the Turks are very important, and we do not want to mess up with them. In the case of all the importance of fighting these human rights violations, one must be equally clear: we will not allow such conflicts to be fought by force in Austria or in other European countries. There can be no wink of eyes, Mr President, since it cannot be that one should let these people go free and not lead them to criminal justice, just as it must be for any other Austrian. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] It cannot be expected, ladies and gentlemen, that a group, no matter what, Mr Wabl, from left or right, here in Austria with violent demonstrations and actions is trying to enforce their demands. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are democrats, and I hope you too, Mr Wabl. There are no rights or left-wing links, but there is only a clear understanding of the rule of law, and there is also an understanding of human rights and the concerns of these groups, but also a clear commitment to the persecution of criminal offences and the persecution of those who commit them. And if they are foreigners, they must be suspended in accordance with the rules of criminal law, and this also applies to those activists. I hope that, at last, you too will agree that these principles, which apply to all, must also apply to these organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8012	Mr Dietachmayr has now been reported to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8034	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Scheibner, Mr Lammer and Mr De Vries. This motion for a resolution by the FPÖ is once again proof that this party is not concerned with preparing any areas of problem which may exist there and there, but with a general hatred of foreigners with false data and the resulting conclusions to poison the climate of peaceful cooperation. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr President, he has said'stirring hatred'!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I am going to disprove you of the information we have mentioned, because they are all wrong in this request. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the individual data, on the share of children with foreign citizenship. If the number of 19 600 foreign children in Austrian schools is true, there is a very small proportion of the number of students. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which state are you from, Lord? Ask the Gaál!]] In the case of some 650 000 pupils in primary and secondary schools, as well as more than 300,000 students in higher schools, 19 600 foreign students represent a share of 2.1 percent. Therefore, it may well be a problem of distribution between schools. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We all send from Vienna to the other federal states so that they also have some!]] In general, the proportion of foreign children in births has been stable for years, with 13.1 percent in 1997. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you send your children to private schools?]] I cannot respond to any of your calls, I will already disprove you of the individual points. To emergency aid. In 1997, 484 million Schilling were paid to non-Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr Gaál, give your colleague a little extra education!]] This corresponds to a percentage of 4.3 percent of total emergency aid expenditure. There can be no mention at all of a preference as you write it in your request, especially taking into account that some of these foreign emergency workers are also EU citizens. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Mr Gaál will invite you to his constituency once!]] On citizenship, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria, the rule is not a general increase, but a reduction in the number of naturalisations. The right to reduce from 30 to 15 years of age exists only if sustainable integration can be demonstrated. Austria – and you know that too – has concluded that after a study by the IHS in the EU on integration and citizenship schemes. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Ask your minister once, he will tell you something else!]] To the labour market. There's no new immigration. It would be good if you were to study the legal provisions, Mrs Partik-Pablé. They know that we have very strict rules in the re-immigration of family integration. For example, children over 14 years of age have hardly any chance to come to Austria. As regards the increase in the number of employment permits from 4 500 to 5 500 for 1999 in your application, it is to be said that these are empowerments in the Foreign Law and seasonal permits. You know that these seasonal workers have no right to work at all, and it would also be right for us if you were to call on your liberal farmers and farmers to stop demanding seasonal workers. It's a crime. It's a crime. You yourself have written in your own request that the number of foreign suspects has no power of statement because it is largely a crime in the area of criminal tourism and organised crime. And it's all about people who don't live in Austria all the time. Now a few more points on the measures supported. The suspension of the Schengen Agreement, as you demand, would be counterproductive. It is precisely the Schengen guarantee that the external borders with the Schengen countries are strictly controlled and monitored. The temporary reduction in the maximum number of foreigners' employment is also not necessary – the foreign labour force potential has been stagnating for a long time. The abolition of the residence fixation would increase the problems that have been scandalized in your application rather than solve it. The effective fight against organised crime is not a question of citizenship as suggested in your application. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I do not have the time to address all the other points. The fact is that your request is rebuttable in all respects and therefore is not even worth the paper on which it stands.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8168	Mr Dr Kier has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8190	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, which is marked by the fact that a variety of agenda items that are only linked to the area of competence are being discussed together, I would like to turn to a part of it, which seems to me to be of great importance, and which, at the same time, is explicitly discussed again by the resolution tabled by Members, Mr Partik-Pablé and others. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that the intention of this motion for a resolution is clear and clear, and it is more than a contrast to the motion for a resolution of the Liberal Group, which considers that the "reduced means" should at all be abolished in accordance with § 66 of the Foreign Law. In other words, that without regard to the person, without regard to better, more adequate and also cheaper possibilities of crossing the border into the territory of the Republic of Austria, if it is not someone who is a refugee, but is simply an unusual crossing of the border, is necessarily sanctioned with imprisonment. I mean, those who have spoken in this debate today in connection with the Kurdish question of human rights – many of the most complex aspects have been presented here, and they have been quite plausible in part – who, if he really takes himself seriously and places human rights at the centre, should think it unimaginable that he simply eliminates the "complicated means". It will be less easy to enforce in this House by a majority to confess here that minors are not automatically imprisoned as they are now. To the Federal Minister for the Interior in the "Standard" of 10. To quote February 1999: If you want to reset them, there's only one chance: if they stay insubstantial, otherwise they're gone. I agree not to have someone behind bars is always a certain risk, but in dealing with minors, with asylum seekers and asylum seekers who are children and young people, not to think of anything other than the imprisonment, to forget that we have youth welfare providers who, if we equip them properly, could do some things, and not even have the imagination to imagine that it is not yet that long ago – no more than two generations, if we take it exactly – that many children from the Republic of Austria have also been on the run, against which we have to fight. I would say that we should decide, together, to find a majority in favour of children and young people, minors, not automatically getting upset in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8254	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly put in place, duly supported, and is therefore under negotiation, perhaps with regard to the almost novel text, that it is a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Yes, he's very precise!]] Deputies Kier! I expressly note that this is a motion for a resolution because it sounds almost like the revision to a paragraph. So: It is a motion for a resolution and it is negotiating. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8284	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! From the fullness of the issues debated here today, I would like to draw attention to those which follow the statements on the security report, in particular those which have rightly been pointed out that this report shows that the development of crime in Austria as a whole and especially in those areas of crime which are relevant to the sense of security of the population has a remarkable stability, partly even declining tendencies. Ladies and gentlemen! On the contrary, justice will not be self-satisfying, as well as criminal justice, within its competence, is always committed to internal security and its promotion, legislative and operational, national and international. Justice policy focuses on the determined fight against serious and increasingly cross-border organised crime on the one hand, and on the other, on the creation of the most meaningful perpetrator and victim-oriented reactions in the field of mass everyday crime. This will be debated in the afternoon in connection with the Disversion. As far as the fight against organised crime is concerned, this can only be done efficiently in the international context, as has already been rightly said by honourable Members. We have also done a good job in the EU during the Austrian Presidency, both with regard to the implementation of the action plan to combat organised crime in Amsterdam and with regard to international cooperation between the judicial authorities – keywords of judicial network and conventions – but also with regard to the gradual approximation of criminal law stocks in the EU states. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the necessary attention must not be lost to the diverse and important concerns of crime prevention through the most efficient fight against crime and prosecution. Only when prevention and repression interfere can the challenges of modern forms of crime be met successfully. Only in this way can it be possible to close the gap not rarely observed between the subjective sense of security of the population and the objective crime situation and, above all, to address problematic developments in individual areas, especially organised crime, but also the abuse of drugs with thoughtful holistic strategies. Ladies and gentlemen! Wherever it is about choosing the means to achieve higher security, we are called upon to compare and weigh this objective with the price of security, especially when it comes to restricting citizens' personal rights of freedom. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wabl.]] This command sets the scope for intervention in individual rights both quantitatively and qualitatively. If these limits are not observed, then our society is at risk of losing more freedom than gaining security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our task, ladies and gentlemen, must be to ensure both freedom and security and, where there is an inevitable need to bring both interests into proper balance. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have succeeded in making a decision on the special investigation methods to combat organised crime – a key word of noise attack and grid investigation – after intense and very passionate discussion. These solutions were found at the time, including the innovative legal protection body of the legal protection officer – and I know this from many discussions within the framework of the European Union – have also received international attention. I assume that there can be and will be no change in the security police law in the far advanced discussions on the creation of the military power law and the revision of the security police law to find those balanced regulations and those legal safeguards which the public rightly expects from the legislator in such sensitive areas. Justice continues to be prepared to bring its expertise and understanding of fundamental rights into the discussion in a constructive way, thus contributing to the success of these two important legislative projects by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8342	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Graf has now been notified to the House. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8366	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! Despite all this, I would like to return to the... [[The red light on the speaker's coil begins to shine.]] It already shines the red light, this is really a reminder that the speaking time will cut me off, it should probably be that way. I would like to return to this whole problem and I would also like to advance the following to the seat rows of the so-called left or the traffic lights: It is true, yes, we also share the view that the right of self-determination of the peoples has indeed been trampled on by the victors in this century, repeatedly and repeatedly, of course, also outside Europe, of course also for the Kurds. It is only interesting for me if I pursue the whole debate on the cause and effect that the Kurdish problem has only been accepted by the united left in this House as a concern in Austria when the command was taken over by a small Marxist, then terrorist left, namely the PKK. [[Abg. Wabl: That's wrong!]] I can remember very carefully: Even 15, 20 years ago, when the fields had not yet been occupied, this was not particularly the concern of our left. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: How do you want to know that?]] I know that very well. I have been following the domestic and foreign policy situation very closely. If one also considers what has been the cause of the recent miscarriage, then one has to confess: that the rule of law in Europe has been kneeling before this question of Öcalan; that must not be forgotten. [[Abg. Edler: Would you have shot him?]] Mr Edler, if the Federal Republic of Germany had made the extradition request, we would not have to talk today about whether Mr Öcalan would have been given a fair trial or not, then this would have been guaranteed. But it has always been argued for exactly the opposite, too, and it has already been clear that sooner or later Mr. Öcalan will fall into the hands of the Turks on his journey. It had to come like this! At least that was clear to me. It was clear to me that someday there will be a state which cannot be measured with our values. And then it happens. But, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the rule of law – and that has been said some times by my colleagues – you are indeed blind on the left eye. I can recall how you all supported extradition in this House and made a signature action here in the House concerning Pinochet. It was a matter of course that he should be delivered, and that is to be supported. Yes, take it easy! It's okay. Terrorists, criminals are extradited. At Öcalan, I have missed this rule of law from you because it is a left hand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But go, please!]] But this is not the first time in Europe. This has been the case with Honecker, and that has been the case with others. Never before has anyone demanded the extradition of Fidel Castros. It is of course not because it is still the head of state. And it's to be measured. Exploring with your trade fairs with two measurements on this issue You're yourself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is indeed surprising for me – and now the Minister of the Interior has come – that he calls on the Randalian Peter Pilz to help and then praises here in the House. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr President! Hear this: Randalier Pilz!]] Minister! Now I ask quite openly: Why didn't you get Mayor and Chief of State Häupl to help out with the same training as Pilz? They were in Moscow together. He probably could have helped you too. How do you get the Peter Pilz right now... [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: He offered himself!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He didn't offer himself. Strangely, the rule of law should only be safeguarded by the Greens, but not by SPÖ and its representatives. So that's very surprising for me. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The bock was made a gardener!]] Correct: The bock was made a gardener. This will once again fall to the head of the Austrian rule of law. But, Minister for the Interior and Foreign Affairs, the Kurdish problem is nothing new. It is certainly a foreign policy problem, but also a massive domestic policy problem. I asked questions to both ministers. At the time, I received a reply from both of them to their predecessors in March and May 1996 and July 1996. At that time it was this so-called Newroz festival in the Kurhalle Oberlaa, also under the pattern of Öcalan and others, where there have been massive calls, high-treasonous calls against state forces in Germany and abroad, where massive calls for violence have come. I have made a corresponding request to see if one does not consider a persecution of the perpetrators according to § 316 StGB in conjunction with § 318 StGB. At the time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but also Mr Foreign Minister, you both gave a relatively unisono reply to the fact that this matter is pending in the National Criminal Court, that the matter has been examined, that an interim report has been submitted in the government, in the Ministerial Conference, and that a final report is expected at the appropriate time to be put before the PKK. – To this day, I have not heard what the final report finally looked like, nor has I heard about the supplementary statement of the public prosecutor's office, which you sent from the EBT on 19.4.1996 to the Landesgericht, where, in the end, the § 278a StGB, namely the criminal organisation, should be examined. Mr. Minister! Perhaps both of you are still able to inform us of the results of the investigations of the time, because of course it is in a causal context with the whole problem which we have to negotiate here today. And one last one towards Greens. If the accusation is repeatedly made that we are not entering into the dialogue with the representatives of the ERNK, I tell you that this is only partly true. I have had a lot of discussions and I have also had many discussions with representatives of the ERNK in the last few days. However, I have always postulated, in every discussion, that a serious dialogue can only be conducted if there is a removal of acts of violence here in the country, but also in the European domestic and other countries, and thus also a removal from the PKK's terrorist acts. Otherwise, there can and must be no dialogue, because if you even talk to terrorists, something will never change. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For me, only one was symptomatic. Unisono gave me two leading representatives of the ERNK the same answer each time. They cannot do such a relinquishing of violence or a removal of violence, for the reason that Europe is forcing them to take violent action because of the problem that is unfinished. And that is wrong. We here in Austria do not force anyone to be violent in our country or in another country. And that's what I want to deposit, and that's what I'm standing for. Only when this non-violence is practiced will there also be a dialogue with us liberals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8512	Mr Wabl has also been mentioned in his speech, because he has been reported as a provocative speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8541	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the monopoly of violence and the choice of resources has been a struggle that has been held for so long since states were founded, state borders changed, freedom movements arose and too often ended in terrorist organizations. Ladies and gentlemen! But it must be clear – and this has already been explained by many previous speakers here in this House today – that certain rights, which have been fought for in Europe and the world, are indivisible and that Austrian representatives have to take a stand and stand for them at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of non-violence, Mr Graf, has been discussed in detail by the Greens at their foundation on the basis of injustice in South Africa, on the basis of the apartheid regime, on the basis of injustices in South American countries. At that time we discussed this issue in great detail, and our party as the only party has clearly and clearly enshrined the principle of freedom of violence in order to enforce the political means in its party programme. [[Abg. Scheibner: Öcalan has not been tender himself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you are doing here, Mr Graf, is a very risky and problematic process. On the one hand, you give quite certain tones on the road. I experienced this last time I went home and, by chance, I couldn't continue on the tram in Graz because there was a demonstration of the Kurds. There have been news on the citizens' climbs, where I thought that these are certainly voters of the FPÖ – exactly in the section of Mr Bauer –: What have they lost here on the street? They should go home, where they come from, and they should be pushed off immediately! Mr. Graf! I say the following to you: Mr Schwarzböck and farmers' representatives of freedom could have demonstrated in Austria, had been able to stand up for their concerns here in Austria and could have articulated them at any demonstration. Nevertheless, he went to Brussels. And I am glad that there is an interior minister sitting here who does not a prioritize the demonstrators with water-throwers, as happened with the farmers' demonstrators in Brussels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's a difference between demonstrating and using violence!]] Mr. Graf! There is no one in this House who leaves any doubt that it is beyond dispute in the Austrian territory, that violently no political objectives may be enforced and that the whole strictness of the law is applicable for this purpose. But, Mr. Graf, you're making pre-condemnification here. Of course, the names, the data of these persons were recorded. But you know just as well as I do that you and your party officer were involved in the Kurdish murders, and at that time the murderers were even escorted by the Austrian police to the airport. And what did your party chairman do to ensure that you have a party political advantage in the presidential election? – He visited the then responsible in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely the current President of the Federal Republic of Kletil, and he said: I've examined the matter; everything's okay. That is why we are against the fact that there is a committee of inquiry in this House. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If They say: "No free guide to terrorists!"I hope that you will also mean "no free guide to state terrorists"! Have you ever read the biography of Nelson Mandela? – You would find the following: Nelson Mandela has been one of those freedom fighters who have in principle rejected violence during his lifetime. But that wing, which has been violent in South Africa because of the terrorist regime, has somehow achieved an interest in Europe and in other civilized countries in what is going on in South Africa, and it has then been put under political pressure. And that's exactly the problem that international recognition is all the time: As long as people try to peacefully – with demonstrations, with clear demands et cetera – the policy, the public, the governments concerned, is relatively low. But as soon as there are outpourings – be it farming demonstrations in France, whether it be demonstrations by the Kurds in Europe that were quite violent – everyone listens and says: Now we have to act! Ladies and gentlemen! We must start from this practice of political "sensitivity", and that is why we have prepared two requests which I would like to inform you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] On the second request: The Federal Minister has formulated here that, of course, it is a requirement not only of the Austrian Federal Government but also of the civilized state community that the demand for the abolition of the death penalty be vehemently presented to the Turks. Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Khol has indicated that the EIA will probably agree, but I do not know what your internal deliberations have been. I have also heard this from the Social Democrats, and I assume that the Liberals will also agree to this request, and that the liberals can go along with it, I think quite possible. I would just like to say the following about the case of Öcalan – Mr Oellinger and also colleague Stoisits have already mentioned this –: Minister of the Interior, you should use another language and do not speak of "carriage" in connection with drag-and-dropping. No country – neither Austria nor France, nor Great Britain, nor Germany, nor the USA – would do so. At the moment, we have the problem that any insensibility to these issues leads to a further escalation, whereas every offensive, open discussion helps not only to resolve this conflict but also to bring it to a positive solution in the sense of our objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you will agree to these requests. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8648	The two motions for resolutions which have just been read have been properly tabled, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Wabl, you have actually reported as a speaker. . But I now have certain doubts as to whether this report was correct. I will then look at the Stenographical Protocol, and perhaps we will have to talk in the Presidential Assembly about how this is with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Wabl: I didn't know the report yet! I can agree with some passages!]] This is not to be blamed, but it is so that I cannot know how you will speak, Mr Wabl. That is why this has also been accepted as a pronouncing report. But later on, you could also consider how to do so. You have instrumentalized this word message. [[Abg. Wabl: You heard my speech, Mr President!]] Mr Bauer has also been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8691	High house! The debate on the activities of the Kurds is obviously about to end. The "Eiertanz", which the united left of this House – I mean certain rulers from the socialist group, the Red Alternatives and the Left Forum – has listed here on this issue, was remarkable and also – once again – very informative and defying. We just heard it again: The Pranger in this discussion did not stand the PKK and its terrorist activities, on the Pranger did not stand their terrorist chief, Mr. Öcalan, at his hands a hundredfold... [[Abg. May. Posch makes a hand movement.]] Mr President. Can you give Mr Posch a call for order, for I will not let this Lord show me the bird! On the Pranger was not the terrorist chief Öcalan, on whose hands a hundred times the blood sticks – by the way, the one of his own comrades – no, of course, Turkey – was right in part – and on the Pranger one tried, above all, to put those speakers of the House, who said: PKK, sympathy of SPÖ with them – right must remain right. Violence remains violence, no matter if it is exercised by the left or the right! [[Complaints with the liberals]] Violence is rejected, violence is without compromise in condemning and fighting! I have heard this confession from no speaker, no speaker of the united left in this House today! You've remained guilty! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With you, the purpose sanctifies the means – if the purpose is just a left! It was clear how to take care of the rights of Mr Öcalan – I say again: Blood sticks to its hands a hundred times – and how relativizing, indeed almost how indispensable one has tried to present the use of violence on this issue in the enforcement of the objectives of the PKK. I cannot believe that you do not know these goals, ladies and gentlemen, from the united left! They have been maintaining intensive contacts with this terrorist environment for years: They march every 1. In May, you first demonstrated together with the PKK, together with the KPÖ and the comrades of the Red Alternatives. But I tell you for safety's sake – and for a wider public –: The objectives of the PKK – and I quote that you cannot accuse me of manipulation – are as follows from the 1997 Austrian State Security Report. – Brands Please, if you don't know! So I quote from the 1997 Security Report: The PKK sees itself as a revolutionary communist liberation movement, in which revolutionary violence is of both ideological and practical importance. This revolutionary violence must also be expressed in the armed struggle. - Quote. And, of course, the practice of PKK here today with so much understanding looks like: occupied messages, hostages, fire attacks, road blockades, devastated shops and serious body injury. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Black Money Pressure!]] Of course! One last comment is: I don't think there's a rule of law in the embassy and hostages...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8739	Deputies! If you think of the end, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8754	... only exchanged business cards with the police and then kindly agreed to each other. I believe that this is less a facet of the Austrian operetta state than rather an outflow of your unacceptable mate with the terrorist environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8787	As this contribution was apparently concluded, I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 1 to 4 of the agenda, so that the required debate of a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I can therefore only call on Mrs Gredler's actual correction, according to the computer, after the urgent question has been discussed. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Volker Kier, Maria Schaffenrath and partners to the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs concerning the misstart for "NEW START": Debakel of large-coalition employment policy due to years of concealment of structural defects in the labour market service (5823/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8821	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 5823/J. As this question has now been addressed to all the Members of Parliament, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9183	Mr Dr Kier spoke on the grounds of the urgent question. The speaking time shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9204	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request from the Liberal Forum deals with a problem which, unfortunately, is becoming more urgent from day to day, namely the growing unemployment and the growing inadequacies of the Austrian Federal Government. This growing inadequacies would normally be a bit gratifying for an opposition party, because rattling governments mean a better chance of choice, but in this case, the chance of voting at the expense of unemployed people is expensive, and I think it will be time for us to create a paradigm change in labour market policy, that we create reforms, that we rethink that we really turn to people and not just give sayings of ourselves, such as: I'm not salden-fixed, I'm man-fixed. I mean, if anyone has to say that at all, he knows that he is actually salinized. Otherwise, he should not point out that he wants to be man-fixed. I want to be man-fixed. It should be obvious that politics applies to people and not to statistical figures. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Federal Minister has today been handed over by the social partners to the "Pact for Older Workers", a paper which we have not yet been able to take into account our urgent request, but we have taken from the media, the press statements and the statements of the Federal Minister, what is and what is to be kept. I must say that this 'fact for older workers' unfortunately continues seamlessly all the mistakes of the previous policy. Seamless! The Federal Minister said that he was building on the existing, and it was impossible to reinvent the world every day. – This is a rejection of creative solutions. Of course you have to build on the existing. I can only say that's a blank formula. No one believes that one can improve labour market policy by simply discarding everything so far and not even knowing what one wants. One must take the turn, one must make a reform that means development, and that is always to build on the existing. But in the choice of words for the social partners, that means a dangerous threat. That is to say, to maintain what has been said so far. This is as if, when screws are rolling, one cuts in a new thread, and if then the screw no longer fits in, lubricates around silicone and pretends to be a fixed connection. That's bad! In reality, one sometimes has to replace whole parts and make something new instead of the old one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] If you do not want to reinvent the world every day, it must not mean that you say goodbye to creative possibilities. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you said, We are not only doing active labour market policy since yesterday!, I ask you: Where has the success of active labour market policies in recent years remained? Where's the success? Are the statistical figures actually such that we can be satisfied with them? If someone says he doesn't want to reinvent the world every day, he'll look beyond the fact that the world is developing every day, that we now have new careers, that professionalism is disintegrating, and that if one continues to hold on to existing rigid structures, no improvement can be expected. If you do not want to do more for older workers than expand the existing bonus malus system, I ask you: How successful was that? Do you not notice that more of the same does not mean that it is getting better, but that only the same mistakes are more repeated? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Or: If you think you can do something by promoting young entrepreneurs, which is meant to make it easier for young entrepreneurs to employ older workers by promoting them, then I must say that you are just too naïve, because we have the problem that we do not have enough business start-ups. We have built up obstacles to the creation of a company without numbers, rather than removing them. They are concerned with creating the foundation at all. Do you think the people at this stage have only half a head free to support an older employee if they do not even know how to overcome the obstacles in order to create a company at all? Or: If you think that you can ease the problem of handling, a real problem that we should be discussing in a serious way, by making this linear rise, instead of increasing the claims for settlement, I will tell you: This is not a truly well-founded reform idea. It's the same problem as before. In the end, it is reserved wage, which, if you keep someone for a longer period of time, ultimately results in you possibly not being able to represent the settlement anymore. They have thus avoided only one thing: that certain targets are more often terminated than other targets, which may be just before the achievement of a higher claim. But you haven't changed anything from the principle. And if you suddenly discovered the short-time allowance for older workers, I ask you: What is the other thing but a wage subsidy, which you are rightly pointing out otherwise? But just get close to the idea of basic security, you refuse because you feel that the existing system would be sufficient anyway. That is what has now come to the table, namely this 'fact for older workers'. He carries the manuscript of structural conservativeism. He has no imagination in himself, he has no solution in himself, and that is a pity, because we have a serious problem with older unemployed people since we have stopped hiding them in the early retirement to this extent. The historical successes you have often called on are mainly based on the fact that you have, quite certainly, already been able to discharge labour markets, at the expense of public cash, very much at the expense of the people who have not yet wanted to go into retirement, who would have rather worked, and therefore have hidden many, many unemployed people at the expense of taxpayers, by making them early pensioners. Adjusting statistics – we have mentioned a table on page 2 – it is clear that we do not have 7.1 percent, but in reality have 10.3 percent unemployment in this country, because 3.2 percent of people are hidden in different measures or are simply called different from unemployed, although they are unemployed. This gives me the opportunity to point out that a written error has occurred here. On page 2 there is one place: 10.3 percent, but it must be called there: 10.2 percent. I just mention this so that it doesn't lead to misunderstandings. That's the finding. Against this background, we have been practicing criticism for years and days. We practiced structural criticism at the AMS. We have criticised the fact that the exclusion of the AMS has not succeeded in ensuring that the enlargement process, which could and should have been a step in depoliticization, was a step towards the complete politicization of the AMS, namely the politicalisation of social partnership bodies, which are also at the disadvantage of removing parliamentary control. I believe that if the dialogue among the social partners is helpful, it is so dangerous if They give joint mandates to the social partners in institutions, which necessarily only make more unanimous decisions possible, because if two are equal to one another, they can only agree more on unanimous decisions, and this inevitably leads to pacts. It is not the evilness of the people that leads to the pact, but the compulsion of the mechanisms you have built in. You have heard this criticism from us for years and days, and if you have to read in the study from St. Gallen that the politicization of the AMS area is one of the central problems, but at the same time you always emphasize, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you now have no real political influence, then I tell you, that is half the truth and half not. Of course, you have lost the political influence as a Federal Minister because the distributed AMS is now controlled by its own bodies. They're just more of the top supervisory authority and don't get through, that's right. Mrs. Federal Minister! But they are also a trade unionist and come from the Chamber of Workers – and this political influence is significant there. That he may not directly help you, may be, but these are your organization's internal structural questions, which do not concern me here. I just have to measure: What is the external success?, and I tell you, the external success is unfortunate because the paralysis effects are significant. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This study has highlighted what the Liberal Group has criticized for years and days, for example, that you have not solved the problem of interfaces. – I now use the formulation from the study. We told you: Separate the functions within the AMS! Make what is dispensable and also privatising, namely mediation, training, coaching, promotion, consulting, a privately organised, competitive part and treat insurance services as what they are, as a public task, which has to administer unemployment benefit according to point and part of the laws and nothing else. Consider It is our ceterum censeo that we at last need a federal social aid law which covers the whole, and that we must call emergency aid what it is: not as an insurance benefit which can be granted indefinitely, because then it is no longer, but as an original claim, Mr. Col., of man for existential protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] That's the question. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Do not pretend that this emergency aid is currently so great that people in Saus and Braus can live on it! Don't do that! Sit with the federal states! We also had a discussion on this subject yesterday, where the federal states tried to hide themselves from responsibility, namely in youth welfare, but it is exactly the same. Get together with the federal states that have the social assistance competence! List what's happening there! Unify the standards! And if the federal states don't have enough resources, which is plausible to me, then make the consistent step: Build on it the roof of a federal social aid, but a conventional and a legal appeal! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In other words, you could use sources of funding other than only the additional wage costs in the form of employers' and employees' contributions to the element of indefinite payments. Not for the element of the short phase of unemployment, but the rest is mostly long-term unemployment, speak of emergency aid – with trembling luck, because the conservatives are already scaring and making sense of how they could achieve it, as a kind of forced obligation to work. We too believe that there is much more to be thought of in order to get people into work, for example in non-profit organisations. That's what I admit, but that's a walk between force and thrust. Push is something other than compulsion. This means giving incentives, for example in the field of continuing and continuing training, life-long learning, and not inventing 29-day courses, such as Mr Obrovski, which only serves to ensure that statistics do not have long-term unemployed people. Before the person becomes more long-term unemployed, he goes "in a measure" for 29 days. If he comes back from the "measure", he again counts as a new unemployed person – and already Upper Austria can present statistics with very few long-term unemployed. I mean, that's more than shameful! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is a mistake. That's not even good marketing. This is for me the punch of the Federal Managing Director of SPÖ, Mr Rudas. This is public work at the expense of the unemployed, and this is bad, I say, also at the risk of being criticized when I use this word. [[Abg. Silhavy: That is exactly what you are going to do for us now, Mr Kier!]] It is not appropriate to prefer to people on the basis of a statistics that they are not long-term unemployed. The long-term unemployed person knows that he is long-term unemployed, only he believes that he belongs to a minority when he reads the statistics. If he listens to something in the circle of acquaintances, he finds that he obviously knows the true members of this minority and hardly anyone else. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] That, I think, is not good, Mrs Silhavy. I understand that you are indignant, although I do not want to hurt you, because you know that I am right. It is only with arguments that we vote that we are emotionalizing very strongly, and these arguments that Liberals have presented for years are on the right track. We would not have needed the study by St. Gallen that the internal papers of the labour market service Vienna, which have been three years old, would have satisfied us. That's the same thing in there. And then what turns out? – One of those, namely the head of the AMS Vienna who wrote these papers, is suddenly persona non grata overnight. All of a sudden, he doesn't like it anymore! Mrs. Federal Minister! They have said that he has not been blamed for any service errors that would require labour law action. I ask you: What sins did he commit if his redemption is desired for your part? [[Abg. May. Peter: He wasn't party-compliant!]] They say that only the employers' representatives in the bodies have prevented it and have linked unfair junkimations to it. On the question of junkimation, I have already said that it may be true, but fortunately you have expressed it so much that I can use it as proof. Only: What sins were these then? For example, the fact that the success of mediation in Vienna is much higher than it is presented in general is adjusted by seasonal workers and those who have a re-establishment commitment when they become unemployed? Is this a mediation success by someone who's being terminated because he's a seasonalian and he's got the reintroduction promise for later in the bag, and then he gets this job afterwards? Who gave it to you? The AMS? - So that's no mediation success. It is a success of the labour market that there is such a thing. The fact that flexible possibilities are available is a success of companies and employees. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I feel that if there are re-establishments, then it's okay, but then it's not a mediation success of anyone, but the person in question has the return ticket in the bag. It is still the question whether it would not be better to make seasonal calculations. [[Abg. Edler: Why is he even sent to unemployment?]] He does not even need to have the withdrawal commitment, but he is constantly busy, continuously insured, but he just has smooth working hours. That is, flexibilization. This does not mean taking away social rights from people, but rather spanning people's social rights throughout the year. That's flexibilization! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: And who pays this?]] Mrs Silhavy! If the only injection is: Who pays this?, then I must tell you, you will certainly have to think about it together, and the employer's side, even the economy will be willing to make contributions – believe me! – if they are sensible. But if you increasingly feel it is only more collected, with uncertain success, for ineffective measures, then you are stunned, then you don't like to pay. And if this is still at the expense of competitiveness, because it "sits down" exclusively on the wages, then one is stunned. But the non-number was not the point. It would be absolutely naïve to assume that there is a social system that expects itself. That would be a mistake, then you don't need it. If people can afford all of this themselves, you don't need a social system. So please be careful because social cohesion in society is very important, and it costs money – that's right – but it's only worth his money when it's well organized. And we think that's important. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Were you perhaps of the opinion that this conciliation success of the AMS Vienna was the reason, i.e. not a service-law, but another error? It was only the St. Gallener study that revealed that the previous statistical figures on the success of the mediation were always with seasonal kidneys, and ruck-zuck-zack, for example, the country of Tyrol – I am sorry to have to mention this here in the background of the sad events – slid down to the last place in the mediation success. This is double sad against the background of what has now happened there. Or was it perhaps the wish of the head of the AMS-Vienna, to question the technical structures, that is, the specialised employment offices, the labour market services, to their timeliness? Maybe that was the reason? I therefore ask you: Is it perhaps the Federal Chancellor who thought it necessary to call himself an employment chancellor because the labour market policy of the Social Ministry was not really successful? – You are responsible, not the Federal Chancellor. And were the Bad Ausser explanations not perhaps already a rejection of your competences? To come to the conclusion of my remarks and to the title of our question "Fehlstart für 'NEW START'": Considering the "NEW START" program, it is noted that it is a "action 800". It is modelled on the "Action 8000" of the former Minister of Social Affairs, Dallinger, has the same mechanisms, but it does not target 8,000 people, but only has 800 and has got a new name, "NEW START". If you mean "building on existing" and "do not reinvent the world every day" to freshly extract Mr. Dallinger's actions from behind, delete a zero, that is, divide by ten, give the whole of an English name and call it modern labour market policy – then I see black for this republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9362	To answer the urgent question, Mrs Hostasch is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9383	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, in particular the author, have written a very long introduction in writing, and Mr Kier has now spoken for a long time in his debate on the specific urgent questions. I therefore ask for your understanding if, before I come to the answer to the individual questions, I may refer to this introduction in a more detailed way. First of all, I would like to say that there are, of course, different approaches to discussing employment policy in a political debate. Of course, an opposition party is not prepared to take advantage of the negative aspects exclusively and to put them out of the context. [[Abg. May. Peter: Mrs. Minister! Mr. Kier didn't do that!]] On the other hand, I would like to say once again, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian Federal Government is pursuing a successful employment policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Where? Where is the successful policy of the Federal Government? There's no such thing as that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to stick to facts and not to your mood or to your hope, according to which you do not want to trust the Federal Government in any success. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where? Tell us where!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria's employment policy is based on the integrated approach to all employment-related policies: the development of active labour market policies, the special consideration of labour market problem groups, the comprehensive support of women to take up employment, but also, of course, the integration of disabled people into the labour market. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where are your measurable successes?]] However, I would like to demonstrate the point of view of the questioners, ladies and gentlemen, by a simple example. You will write in the request of a 'feel start for 'NEW START'. – May sound pretty in the sense of a headline. But the exact opposite is the case. Dear ladies and gentlemen! By the end of the submission period of the "NEW START" programme – that was the 31st. Years of this year – 150 million Schillings have been made available at first, second, almost 800 requests have been received for this programme, and then about 500 businesses, institutions and institutions have submitted applications for support, with a total funding amount of 546 million Schillings in addition to 2,700 new jobs. This response, because of the results, has prompted me to agree with the Federal Minister for Finance that this programme will be increased by another 150 million schillings in order to give even more jobseekers a chance. Mr Kier, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the project "NEW START" here with the "Action 8000", I ask you to take into account the guidelines of "NEW START" to look at them again. "NEW START" is something quite different from the "Action 8000". The "Action 8000" was and is a project to promote transit jobs, "NEW START" is a project to establish sustainable independent jobs, independent jobs in particular in an area where so-called non-marketable work is given. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Who pays this?]] I am convinced that this new initiative, this innovation in active labour market policy, will be a success. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! But also to other claims in the introduction of your urgent request, I believe that some corrections are necessary. There is no report from the European Commission on "Unemployment". However, what is available is an independent network of correspondence, supported by the Commission, called "System", which wrote a report on this issue in the summer of 1998. This is called "European Employment Observatory", published in "Trends", issue number 30 of the summer of 1998. All contributions, including those on Austria, reflect the views of authors and do not necessarily cover themselves with the Commission's view. This also stands large and distinctly on the respective pages, specifically on page 3 of the above-mentioned issue of this magazine. I would ask you to take this into account when referring to these reports in the future. The Commission does not in any way conclude that the unemployment rate in Austria is over 10 per cent. In order to determine the unemployment rate, there is, as I know, an internationally agreed and comparable procedure based on ILO criteria. The unemployment rate in Austria was 4.4 percent in 1997 and is expected to remain at this level in 1998. These figures are published by EUROSTAT on the basis of a representative survey in all EU Member States and are therefore comparable. I think it is also a matter of building on the same and comparable data. The authors of this study have tried to calculate a kind of job gap or underemployment. In the "employment-seeking" or "unemployed" group, persons are included who are neither currently available to the labour market nor can actively seek work or also actively seek work. These are, for example, training participants, care professionals without an existing employment relationship, special emergency assistance workers and others. Do you really want to claim that these persons can be referred to as "unemployed" and "employed" and can thus be seen as equivalent to directly available job-seekers and job-seekers? . I do not see it in any way from a social point of view that, for example, when pensioners are already entitled to a pension, although they may not have reached the age of the old age pension provided for in our laws, they should be equal to the unemployed and should therefore also be included in unemployment statistics. I do not think that a good part of these pensioners – I am referring in particular to early pensioners – feel the slightest need to get back into work. However, this is precisely the criterion for employment measures, employment policy, but consequently also for recording arrangements in the context of labour market policy. The recording arrangements, in particular the definition of unemployment – I have already mentioned it in accordance with ILO – are the same in all EU countries, i.e. that pensioners, trainees and trainees do not appear in unemployment statistics in other countries. In the case of pensioners, this should also be done in other EU countries for international comparability. We have, of course, tried to calculate this too. This would mean, for example, that the Netherlands would have an unemployment rate of well over 20 per cent; even more pronounced would be the values in Belgium or France. I therefore ask, ladies and gentlemen, that your criticism and your assessment of the labour market and employment policy in Austria also address the political assessment with a certain degree of fairness and correctness. Furthermore, I do not want to beautify the situation on the Austrian labour market, but your request will nevertheless try to present the development of labour market data in a way that makes Austria appear to be an international final light in relation to employment efforts and successes. The fact is that both the Austrian unemployment rate and, as I said, the employment rate in December 1998 and the employment rate in the international comparison are in the absolute peak. Similarly, the female employment rate is significantly higher than the European average and, contrary to the applicant's findings, it has increased further in 1997 and 1998. I would like to say that this is not done on its own, but it is also the result of our policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, in 1998, the leading duration of women registered as unemployed in the labour market service was 18 days below that of men. In addition, it fell by 11 days or almost 5 percent in the last two years. The issue of long-term unemployment is a problem which the Federal Government has already dealt with intensively in the past. We will also need to continue to devote ourselves intensively to this. In this context, it can be observed that the proportion of those people seeking work for more than a year is not only close to 50 percent below the European average but also slightly lowered in the previous year. But still – I don't like anything here –: There is a very important problem to be solved for those concerned. According to the labour market forecast of the Austrian Economic Research Institute quoted in your request, the annual average number of employed persons will also increase by more than 20 000 this year. This means that since 1997, some 43 000 new jobs have been created. Similarly, the economic research institute for the year 1999 is based on a decline in unemployment and thus also on the unemployment rate. It is to be expected – not least due to the government's work on the labour market and employment policies – that the forecast development in this year may be even more positive and, I hope, will be even more positive. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, one has to say again and again: We are not living on an island, but are surrounded by a globalized economy in a globalized world. Therefore, we cannot make our policy in isolation and use the relevant results for us. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The way in which you quote from the Liberal Forum – I understand the intention – from the interim results of the company "Focus" is also very difficult as a constructive discussion with the results that are extremely interesting and relevant to me as a Supervisory Board. The study was carried out by the Board of Directors of the Labour Market Service Austria on 28 October. February last year, with the company "Focus Management" receiving the award. The investigations were started at the end of September 1998. A first report was sent to the project team set up in the labour market service on 21 January. It was brought to the attention of the European Parliament last December. The Board of Directors of the Labour Market Service received the results on 16 March. It was presented a few days ago in February 1999. The one you requested – I would like to refer here to a specific consideration of you, which you formulated in the introduction of the request – is a separation between mediation and benefits under the unemployment insurance law, I do not think is appropriate, highly valued ladies and gentlemen. I am also in line with a number of reform approaches in other European countries. I think we always have to think about what it's all about. The primary objective is to activate the unemployed, to offer them opportunities for re-entry into the labour market and to provide passive life assurance only in the second line. I do not want to give up the claim of activation before passive performance, but – on the contrary! – further development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the question of administration is of course to be asked. Which administration should take over the benefit allowance while at the same time checking the availability for the labour market as an essential individual requirement of entitlement? This can only be done in the form of concrete jobs or labour market integration measures offered by the labour market service. The question of additional interfaces – a very important question that arises from it again and again – is also not included in the concept of separation, but also in the loss of synergies due to the resulting multiple data collection and also data processing. I would also like to say very clearly that: Your assessment of the situation in the labour market service Vienna is not correct. By decision of the State Directorate of the State of 26 May 1988, the Council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other part, of the other part, on the other part, of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the The fact that there can also be other technical views is an essential element of democratic discussion. However, this does not change the unanimous decision taken in the relevant body. However, I would also like to make a few comments on your comments on employment guidelines and national action plan because – forgive this direct remark! – Supposes that you have formulated, but are wrong. The employment guidelines were drawn up during our EU Presidency in 1999. They were taken note of by the Heads of Government at the European Council and are formally adopted. However, there are practically already new directives in force for 1999. I am in the process of adapting the National Action Plan to these new directives, and I am convinced that it is right not to believe that from year to year – I am now also using the wording that you have used a little critically – "the world must be reinvented", but it is about pursuing a longer-term and consistent structure and policy, so as to ensure a corresponding sustainable impact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Overall assessment of the national action plan for employment on all measures, for all the pillars as we call them, would be very difficult because of the different basic conditions and the different priorities of the Member States – you have already referred to them – to be very difficult. However, this would be necessary in order to meet the specific situation in the Member States. A very clear form was therefore chosen for 1998 after a very long discussion: By means of so-called Diamonds, the situation in the Member States is presented on the basis of key labour market indicators such as employment rate, youth unemployment rate, long-term unemployment rate, the so-called agenda Gap and other criteria in order to identify improvements and also deteriorations in the employment situation following the implementation of the National Action Plans for Employment. I think it was important – I have not yet had the opportunity to report to the House on this instrument of evaluation – to inform you of this information in response to the urgent request of the Liberal Forum. Another information on quantitative objectives: With regard to Guidelines 1 to 3, a detailed review of the information is carried out by the Commission. However, a direct comparison of the results has so far been very difficult due to the different statistical collection systems in each Member State, which is why a study by EUROSTAT is planned. In parallel, an approximation of national statistical collection and evaluation systems is to be carried out. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It would still be a lot to say about the introduction of the urgent request. However, I allow myself to come now – in compressed form – to answer your specific questions. Questions 1 to 3: As I have already said in my introductory remarks, the breakdown of the labour market service in 1994 makes a clear distinction between the political function and the implementation competence at the level of the labour market service institutions. I have also repeatedly stated to the public that, in accordance with the clear provisions of the labour market service law of the Board of Directors, the essential personnel decisions are taken. On the basis of the clear and unanimous decision taken by the National Directorate in January 1999, I assume that the reforms agreed there will be addressed and implemented without delay as part of the current human occupations. I expressly note that, for me, the crucial thing is that the implementation of the reform concept in the labour market service is consistently and very short-term. It is about the situation on the labour market, about job-seekers, but also about increasing contact with businesses so that the labour market situation can be improved in Vienna. Question 4: The reform of the labour market service was carried out in 1994 in agreement with the social partners, but above all in agreement with the government partner, the ÖVP, and it has found its way into the labour market service law. I cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the labour market service can be referred to as playing ball of socialist or trade union interests, since representatives of the economy are actively involved at all levels of the organisation of the labour market service and have so far been found in cooperative voting in the various institutions to consensual decisions. [[Abg. Meisinger: That's the way it is! ... meadow...!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Why is the head attacking Mr Werner?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I assume that both the economy and the coalition partners will support me in the reform measures, particularly in the field of labour market services in Vienna. [[Abg. Koppler: (in the direction of the liberals) Is there still the flea circus?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have no indication that the legal provisions of the labour market service do not apply to the benefits of long-term unemployed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: (in the direction of Abg. Koppler) We'll see how the flea will bite you!]] The clear regulation of the Unemployment Insurance Act states that inability to work is to withdraw from the reference, or involuntary benefit providers lose their entitlement to benefit. I would also like to draw attention to the debate this morning and to my answers at this time of question, in which this problem has also been the subject of your interest. [[Abg. Gaugg: (in the direction SPÖ) Now one has already retired again! Schmidtleithner's name is her! He's going so bad that she has to go!]] Question 5: At present, a service relationship under the Unemployment Insurance Act may be increased by means of social assistance, provided that it violates the material minimum benefit in accordance with the National Social Assistance Guidelines. In addition, Mr Kier, I would also like to refer to the debate today at an early stage. Questions 6 and 7: In a broad discussion, the strengths and weaknesses of the Vienna labour market service organisation were analysed and evaluated. The decision of the Vienna State Directorate is the logical consequence of the end of the discussion phase and thus an excellent starting point for taking the necessary reform measures immediately. The concepts introduced by national management and employers and workers are part of the reform process I mentioned earlier. Question 8: ==References====External links== In February 1999, he was transferred to the Board of Directors. We were on 23. A summary of this interim report was reported on February, that is, a few days ago. Questions 9 and 10: It is the unanimous opinion of all the members of the National Directorate and not just those of the trade union representatives that positive elements of the technical structures should be maintained. I share this view. For example, key elements of professional evaluations as well as labour market structures are essential for the design of perspective training measures for labour market integration. The size of the Vienna labour market – I have already explained several times why the situation of a large city like Vienna is different from that of other regions – as well as the differentiated deep integration of professional structures make sense to maintain professional orientations for the rapid and systematic identification of changes in skills and training requirements and requirements for specific knowledge and skills, as well as their implementation through labour market policies geared to employers and employees. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, it is essential – and I would like to draw this out in particular – that there are no double-tracks and that the best possible way is by means of mediation and contacts with businesses. What the reform measures focus on and what the main objectives of this approach must be: To prevent double-tracking, to improve employability, to improve the service and thus also to intensify contact with businesses. On the question 11: The wide-ranging structural changes in the Vienna labour market require systematic and differentiated analysis and evaluation of employment prospects. The key reform measures are now being launched at the level of the Vienna labour market service. At the federal level of the labour market service, the Board of Directors has set up a committee to discuss the medium-term development prospects in the context of the preparation of a longer-term labour market service plan. In addition, there are medium- and longer-term structural issues in the implementation of labour market policy and the development of the services offered by the labour market service. The results of the "Focus" analysis will be included in these work. This was because this study was commissioned. Questions 12 and 13: For me, the question of political and trade union membership of labour market service operators is not crucial. Rather, it is their ability to carry out the often very demanding tasks and challenges. [[Abg. Meisinger: You need to read it all?]] For this reason, questions about the membership of the political groups for the appointment of a staff member are also irrelevant, and the conditions for ordering and ordering are precisely regulated in the labour market service law adopted in this House. Question 14: As I was informed by the Vorarlberg labour market service, "Social Act" has had no contact with the Vorarlberg labour market service for half a year. According to my section, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislation does not impede the exercise of private employment. In accordance with the legal requirements in any case in the interest of those seeking employment, all persons concerned with the implementation of the mediation must prove their professional competence. This is a question of people to be taught, and, accordingly, quality must also be ensured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The trader of an employment agency shall be entitled to obtain a certificate of qualification in accordance with the provisions of the trade regulation or of the certificate of formal qualifications granted to the trader in respect of the trader's trader's trader's trader's trader's trader's trader. It is in my interest that, for the benefit of job seekers and the enterprises, the existing ones – I would like to underline this – will be deepened in cooperation with private workers. However, I do not intend to make a legal change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 15: The measures you have put forward are part of the expansion of labour market policy, they have been coordinated with labour market services, they promise realistic successes and they are also budgetaryly secured by me in agreement with the Minister of Finance. Furthermore, I should like to point out that in 1999 there was a record budget for active labour market policy with a total of more than 11.1 billion schilling, and I am very glad that I was able to achieve this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question 16: Dear ladies and gentlemen! I know your urgent request today at around 10 a.m. This question cannot be answered in a very difficult way in the search and in the short term. I will submit an appropriate evaluation. On the question 17: Your impression is not right! On the question 18: In the course of the annual labour market service planning in 1999, the labour market policy target set by me was taken into account to take women into account in particular. The labour market service has agreed on appropriate target indicators and decided on the Board of Directors. Furthermore, I would also refer to the respective reports on the implementation of the National Action Plan, which address these issues in detail. On question 19: The labour market service regularly sets out targeted measures to review and further develop girl-specific promotions. This catalogue of measures also includes enhanced activities in the field of information on non-traditional professions and the motivation of girls to seek training in such professions. Women who are trained in such occupations are a target group of apprenticeship promotion measures of the labour market service, thus providing incentives for potential training firms alone. In general, the proportion of female job seekers in vocational guidance and preparation courses is increasing. In the measures of the Youth Training Security Act, the proportion of girls – as I believe, important indicator – is currently around 60 percent throughout Austria. That's a lot! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Six?]] 60 percent! The claim set out in the request, the initiatives to promote women on the labour market or the initiatives for apprenticeship employment is an announcement populism of the Federal Government, I would like to reject with all clarity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that these are central concerns of the Federal Government, in which they are also successful, shows that Austria, in the field of youth employment, has come to the top of all studies within the European Union and has the lowest youth unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, look forward to this result and do not complain! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 20: I cannot see any contradiction between the measures for the various target groups in the labour market policy. The labour market service has presented operationalisation for 1999 in the form of annual labour market policy objectives in implementation of labour market policies. This planning has also been approved by the Board of Directors. Thus, the distribution of financial resources between the various measures and by labour market regions covered by the 1999 Federal Finance Act and the implementation of them is observed by the naturally functioning accompanying budget controlling and the relevant target-achievement indicators. Questions 21 and 22: Dear ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on individual projects, as mentioned in the request, is in no way representative of the assessment of the entire labour market policy for women. One cannot draw conclusions from individual projects to the overall concept. I assume that not only the various measures in the labour market policy for women, as planned for 1999, will be implemented, for example, the re-entry programme, specific training measures for women, or the promotion of the resumption of work through childcare aid. Above all, however, it is crucial that sufficient facilities are available for child care, which have appropriate, that is, professional opening hours. The primary responsibility on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, lies, as you know, with the countries. Nevertheless, the Federal Government has also launched a decisive initiative with the Kindergarten billion – I only mention the title, although it has become more of the funds. On the question 23: I would like to mention two examples. In Vienna, the project was successfully implemented, in the area of the Landeswirtschaftsstelle Niederösterreich, and successfully implemented the pilot project "Minerva", in which women seeking work are prepared for self-employment and were encouraged and promoted in the start of this activity. I intend, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Service, to extend this pilot project throughout Austria. Question 24: I assume that my colleague, Mr Mag. Prammer, a draft regulation will be introduced into this discussion and also into the government. On questions 25 and 26: I will shortly send those points which have been politically agreed within the framework of the government clause in Bad Aussee as a draft law for consideration. On the question 27: As the labour market service informs me, such training measures are planned or in preparation. Should this prove inadequate, I assume that the labour market service will take appropriate steps towards employee qualification and personnel development in the labour market service. On the question 28: Point a: The psychological tests are still being carried out. A statement by the Data Protection Commission has not yet been made. Point b: Yes. To b/i: A total of 24 people were tested. To b/ii: There is currently no evaluation. To b/iii: Yes. On this occasion I should also like to refer once again to my various responses both in committee and in plenary. On question 29: In order to ensure a high degree of transparency and quality of labour market data, the data of service providers are prepared retroactively with a delay of three months. This retroactive investigation shall have the purpose of taking into account delays in the return and processing of service applications and open clarification of claims in order to ensure full and as far as possible representative and correct recording of service providers. Only through this procedure are genuinely valid data secured. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I hope I have been able to answer your questions adequately with this reply and these clarifications. I would like to point out, Mr Kier, that the social partners have presented to the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, and to me this morning, the common ideas of the social partners for dealing with the labour market problems of older Members, both those seeking employment and those in employment. It will be my job and that of putting the considerations contained in this concept into practice as quickly as possible. I also ask you to support this important project.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9671	Thank you, Mrs. Hostasch. We are now going into the debate. The individual speaking times must not exceed 10 minutes. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Helmut Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9698	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Federal Minister! I think it is good for you - as I do for your whole group, for the whole of the Federal Government and for the other Members here in the House - that unemployment and the development of the labour market have been recognized by you as a pressing problem. Mrs. Federal Minister! They commissioned this Focus study, and through this Focus study, the structures of the labour market service were viviated in the truest sense of the word. Your coalition partner has referred to this: Schussel has meant that the AMS is an old organization, and Khol, who is about to speak, has meant that it is a game ball of socialist and trade union interests – he should have said: social partnership interests – and has asked you to create order. And Khol puts one more on it and says, Inability to work and involuntary long-term unemployed will be included in the AMS Vienna parked. Mrs. Federal Minister! Something's not clear to me: How can you view everything as natural and good with an unimaginable self-confidence when the findings coming from outside are quite different and when the result of your work is obviously different? . The Liberals now do not believe that you or the Social Democrats or any other political group in the House did not see unemployment as a real urgent problem. Rather, it is a question of accusing you of making more of the same and using more of the obsolete structures and resources, rather than really fighting unemployment at the root, where it can be fought, in the understanding of a new world of work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You are setting up a measure... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I am there, Mr Edler. They set out the "NEW START" measure and declare that you now have 800 requests for 500 businesses and will use 150 million schilling for this. – That is to say, in concrete terms, that employment in this action will not cost quite 200 000 S for a year! And then what's going on, madam? What's going on after a year? 200 000 S for a job! This is exactly the same as in the apprenticeship action! I have been able to tell you several times that I congratulate you on understanding the problem of youth unemployment, and You have also seen that I applauded you, Mrs Federal Minister, when you spoke about youth unemployment because good work was done in this context in the short term. But at what price! They did not make any reform in apprenticeship training. They have set up reförmchen there and there, but you have still not made the teaching an equal education level in secondary education. They continue to discriminate against apprentices and toss this area with money! And you are doing the same with regard to unemployment! They are not fighting unemployment at the roots, where they really come from, but – I think you are – they are developing budgets and spending money to ultimately offset the worst effects of this unemployment, but only for a very short time. You are pushing a mountain ahead of you – I do not suppose you are going to push this up to the next election, that would be too cheap for me – and I know very well that the problem is bigger and not smaller after a year. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have called into question the actual unemployment in Austria. – I do not want to argue with you now about ILO statistics. I just want to tell you the following: You must have so much self-criticism that it is clear to you that the number of over 200 000 early pensioners in Austria – in Austria we have the lowest retirement age in all EU countries! – nothing but a shift in unemployment to pension insurance. If that were not the case, you would not already transfer 7 billion Schilling to pension insurance in 1998/99! That is the striking proof of this! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Don't know – but you know it of course! – that you only have statistics of the year 1999 that people who no longer find work park in pension insurance, and thus have a sustainable suspension of pension insurance? You know the demographic numbers! – I don’t know why you have so little power to question yourself, and how to appreciate – as I believe – the critical elements that Mr Kier has presented very well and very well-founded! In the future, it will not be enough to remove the labour market service, Ladies and gentlemen! If you're outlining something and don't create a new market, you'll create a new monopolist. You are withdrawing these monopolists by disseminating Parliament's control. They largely withdraw this monopoly labour market service and hand it over to the control of the social partners sitting next to each other: a black, a red, a black, a red. And if you have the forehead to tell us: The occupation is only about qualification, then you also have the forehead and tell us: The qualification to become managing director of the AMS in a country is a) membership of the trade union and b) red or black! Mrs. Federal Minister! Why Saying You don't? Tell me quite clearly that this is the qualification you mean! There's no one else but a red or a black one. There's no one else who's not a member of the union, managing director! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Don't say blablabla, my colleague. For now I am meeting you exactly at the point where you are always, in a pharysic way, always claiming the opposite of what you are doing! That's the point!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9765	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9804	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Employment and mediation. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can only measure you by very specific figures and find that you simply and decisively fail in your placement in the labour market service. How else should I say it? – They are very happy to take the area of tourism into their mouths, talk about pedalers and add the construction industry. Let's take the numbers to hand: In 1992, there were 12 888 unemployed people in tourism in August. This is 12 888 too much, at a time when there has been a huge shortage of labour in this industry. At a time when there is the greatest employment density, they have had nearly 13,000 people in the unemployment of the base. In August 1998, there were 19,000 people! So this base rose by 50 percent. In August 1998, i.e. at a time when companies from Vorarlberg to Burgenland are looking for employees, you will find yourself in the labour market service – or is it now not yours; for it is now distributed, it is now in red and black social partnership! – 19 000 people kept in unemployment and failed to communicate it! In 1998, on average, there were 29 000 unemployed in this sector. But in the peak period, when most employees are employed and asked for, you have failed to employ 19 000 employees! That's where I ask you: Why Lead You do this in unemployment statistics? This is, in fact, about long-term unemployed, which are to be reintegrated into the labour market through training and further opening up the labour market. In fact, there are not 29 000 or 30 000 unemployed in the area of tourism, but only 10 000, because you cannot count the base of 19,014 from 1998! I think you have to pursue a completely different policy, namely a policy that focuses on this modern working world and which understands that a knowledge and information society needs other parameters of the working world and employment. In view of the technological progress, the dramatic speed of change, the declining half-life of knowledge and the loss of national autonomy that you yourself have addressed, we must not only use the old instruments – but still more – which unfortunately do not work and only cost a lot of money and thus represent an overload of the social system. The basic guarantee as the basis of new work, for which you have set up a working group in your ministry, is, in my opinion, the answer. Mr Edler asked how we can meet the new challenges of a fragmented world of work and how we can create new jobs through a comprehensive flexibilization of the working world, which naturally includes the rights to overtime charges. – Labour law means that people have to work when there is work. Due to high labour costs and productivity, we can no longer afford standing times. The high labour costs are the result of which such pressure on employees is created, because such high labour costs have to be converted into productivity in one hour. Why don't you have the courage to really develop models of annual working time and say: The normal working time per year, however you set it, should be 1 700 hours, and all hours over it are overtime? The weekly working time can then be set at 50 or 60 hours for a certain period, and everything that goes beyond that must be paid as overtime. The day-to-day working time could be 10 or 12 hours in extreme cases, and the time worked beyond that must automatically be paid as overtime if it is not already counted as overtime during the annual working time.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9834	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9850	Thank you! This is a new way of combating unemployment which is pressing us and which you are pressing, but not with a more old measures that cost a lot of money and, unfortunately, do not work!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9883	The next speaker is Mr Edler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9904	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question about employment and the labour market situation, which has been introduced by the Liberal Forum today, is certainly legitimate, no question at all. But both speakers, Mr Kier and Mr Peter, were unable to propose concrete measures on how we can really implement effective employment policies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Read the application!]] And you can't imagine that the Federal Government and in particular the Social Democracy are not constantly trying to do everything possible to create real employment in order to prevent the scourges of unemployment. You can't put that to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need a policy, together with the AMS, not at all a question of how we can shape employment and not manage unemployment. That must be our strategic consideration! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has addressed in detail what has been implemented by the Federal Government and what is being prepared, but also what has been positively affected by us within the EU. [[Abg. Gaugg: What?]] The Austrian economy offers a very good overall picture, which we can be proud of, ladies and gentlemen, also from the point of view of employee representation. Ladies and gentlemen in the world of work are part of the economy. It is about the quality of our performance, and if more is exported today, we can certainly be proud of it together! But if we hear, especially from conservatives, slogans that only the market regulates the workplace situation, ladies and gentlemen, then I must say: As a social democrat and trade unionist, I cannot necessarily befriend myself with this position! Rather, our key statement must be: Policy must provide a positive framework here. If it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, it will also intervene, especially in the case of investments in infrastructure. We have decided in common on the basis of proposals made by the Federal Government over the past few months and years. I only recall the Rail Infrastructure Financing Act, which unfortunately requires us to note that some billions of schilling are now being broken in this context because these finished projects cannot be implemented due to bureaucracy and opposition. That's where the lever has to be mounted! There are thousands of jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] I am not a representative of the industry, but I understand that yesterday's report shows that in recent years, due to the EIA legislation in Austria, we have only been able to implement six major projects. In other countries, especially in other EU Member States, handling in the administrative procedure is much more flexible than with us. I would like to say clearly: I do not want to speak now of a policy in which we completely ignore and postpone ecology and nature conservation. I do not want this, ladies and gentlemen, but it must be possible, together, to implement the necessary projects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] If, by the Liberal Forum, the Austrian trade union movement and the representation of workers' interests in this context were particularly critical, and in many areas it is said that it is not legitimate to carry out a representation there, then I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen! Criticism may be justified, okay. It always depends on which side you look at that. But I would point out that we are on the Austrian road with our social partners – and we are proud of that! – solved many problems in Austria at the negotiating table and did not need the road. And this is a good Austrian way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In this context, however, we must also call on the economy, and I am pleased, Mrs Federal Minister, that today, together with the social partners, we have managed to link up the package concerning older colleagues in the world of work. I hope that the models can be implemented effectively! Mr Peter and Mr Kier have referred to the re-entry. I mean, we already have to demand the economy in this regard. It can't be the right way for you to immediately choose the path of termination with the promise of re-establishment at first fluctuations! Why do we not try to get out of business over annual working time models? Or in some areas – not in many but in some – do you want to take advantage of the possibilities of the social state and unemployment insurance and send employees into unemployment for a few weeks or months? – It cannot be blamed by us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Peter: It may also be that the employees want it!]] I also criticise this as a social democracy with some social democratic managers. I am not acquitting these either! The fact that social plans solve problems where profit ceilings are basically possible, but colleagues are pushed into unemployment cannot be positively assessed by us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that there has been little flexibility in the trade union movement in this respect, that workers' representatives and all trade unions in recent years have been prepared to participate, particularly in terms of flexibility. There are many contracts for collective agreements. We were ready to negotiate the opening hours, and that is not very easy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] You've never held personal responsibility in operation, colleague Gaugg! You have to stand in operation and see the problem, for example the labour market situation, and then you have to be prepared to take the responsibility for our trade union movement, for our staff representatives and works councils! You have no idea! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I was x-times in the situation, and it is not pleasant to carry out reforms with staff cuts! I would just like to point out that the trade union movement was also prepared to negotiate wage cuts in many areas in which we had received employment through a solidarity pact and were able to remain in operation. And this is not pleasant for works councils, personnel representatives and the many trade union movements! But there must also be solidarity in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the basic assurance that you have referred to. Is that what you really want, colleague Schmidt? Consider what your two colleagues have said here! They want to strengthen the Social Assistance Act throughout Germany. Mr Khol, who will speak afterwards and will probably address Vienna, I must say straight away: Mr. Club Chairman! The Wiener Schilling also spends around 10 billion on social benefits. I would like to mention this clearly positively. But to see basic security only as alms support, ladies and gentlemen, that cannot be a policy for us! Finally, the AMS Vienna: I strongly reject the fact that the trade union movement or the representation of interests has somehow acted as a braker. The social-democratic union group in Vienna was the first to strengthen the awareness of regionalisation and to ask for more support on the ground and to negotiate in Vienna in 1992 – which can be read in the media. [[Abg. Meisinger: That was brought to paper, but not implemented!]] That was a long process. The head of the AMS Vienna has tried to do this, but is then stuck in the structure. Nevertheless, I would like to mention in particular the performance of the colleagues in the AMS who have tried. We have some job centers in Vienna – which can also confirm the economy – where we have the best successes. And the Federal Minister has already mentioned it: The employee representation and the employer's representation have unanimously adopted a reform concept in the Executive Board, which calls for more customer loyalty and also for cross-sectoral supervision of our colleagues on the Vienna labour market. Since a few times the mayor of Vienna was addressed here, I would like to say: It is his duty as the mayor of Vienna and the head of state to show if there is a worse mediation activity in Vienna than in the other Länder, and to demand that the AMS Vienna works more efficiently. Let's not get rid of that. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is not enough for us Social Democrats to make good speeches about unemployment and employment here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10031	Please do not conclude, but really do.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10046	It is important for us that people are really freed from the scourge of unemployment! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10077	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. The clock is set to 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To create work, not to manage unemployment! – This is for us the goal of the AMS! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the Austrian People's Party, we therefore support all that Mrs. Hostasch is doing to achieve a meaningful reform of the labour market service, especially in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The labour market service has a total of 106 services throughout Austria. Many of them do excellent work. And I would like to say very consciously at the beginning of my statement that we cannot compare the labour market service Vienna or the labour market service Burgenland with the labour market service Niederösterreich or with the labour market service Tirol. [[Abg. Gaugg: You can't compare that! Because at the last one, black directors are sitting!]] This important task is carried out with seriousness. The task is to: • to provide employment and not to manage unemployment. – And I think, Mrs Federal Minister, we should also remove the many bureaucratic barriers we have introduced to private labour market placement in the reform of the labour market service! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] I said that the AMS is only partly critical. Especially critical is the labour market service Vienna after an internal study by the labour market service Austria. You can see on this table the targets of the labour market service Vienna. [[The speaker puts a diagram with the heading "AMS Target Failure" on the speaker's desk.]] In particular, Vienna misses the following objectives: when moving into long-term unemployment, the employment of long-term unemployed, the cross-country tourism mediation – Mr Peter, I give you the right to do so! – and it has residues in the performance, that is, the AMS Vienna does not come out with its money. - You see the red bar here. The red bar illustrates the failure of the labour market service Vienna in the assessment of the Austrian labour market service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is the political influence!]] Where does the labour market service Vienna fail in detail? – Look You're going to turn on this desk! [[The speaker put a diagram with the title "Failure of the AMS Vienna" on the speaker's desk.]] They see Upper Austria with 17.7% population blue and next to Vienna with 19 percent red recorded. See unemployment benefits: 13 percent in Upper Austria, 27 percent – twice as much – in Vienna. And then look at the emergency relief recipients: 10 percent in Upper Austria, 40 percent – that is, the fourfold number! - in Vienna. And look at the sanctions – therefore, Mrs. Federal Minister – your explanation of why this is so is quite incomplete: In Upper Austria, more than 22 percent of sanctions were imposed, so fewer involuntary workers who receive emergency aid were imposed in Vienna only over 12 percent of the sanctions. The high red beaming material for emergency aid recipients is clearly in line with the unenforced sanctions. That is why the supervisory authority is here – and that is what you are, Mrs. Federal Minister! – demanded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not small, it is large amounts. Because if you look at this last Taferl, you will see the costs of emergency aid in comparison between Vienna and Upper Austria. [[The speaker puts a diagram with the title "Emergency Aid Costs" on the speaker's desk.]] In Upper Austria, the cost of emergency aid amounted to 780 million, in Vienna 3.3 billion schilling with almost the same population. And if you look at the savings potential, I cannot explain to myself, Mrs Federal Minister, your contemplative and long-lasting statements today. Because would be If you apply the same criteria, which are applied on average in all federal states in granting emergency aid, even in Vienna, you would have a savings potential – this is yellow – of 1.6 billion schilling! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I'm just reminding you: The claim "carnation money for all" costs less than 800 million schilling. We could therefore carry out a number of other tasks only from the savings achieved in the proper administration of the labour market service in Vienna, and we could also reduce the contributions to unemployment insurance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Hostasch! I have already mentioned this in a press conference and in a government clause: I would like you to discourage me from suspecting that unemployment insurance funds are only generously spent in Vienna, so that the capital of Vienna, managed by the Social Democrats, has more money at its disposal and does not have to spend this 1.6 billion schilling for social assistance. For those who fall out of the emergency fall into social assistance, and social assistance has to pay the countries. So here comes the suspicion that one red hand washes the other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Because I am already with the red hands, I would like to tell you that there was once the Bonmot in Austria: Austria is the only country in which a union holds a railway. And Austria is also the only country in which trade union and social democracy reserve 106 posts from the 106 management posts in the labour market service service. Here, ladies and gentlemen, would be more pluralism appropriate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: You carried this!]] For it cannot really be that 106 of the 106 services of the labour market service have the management functions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say one thing: The labour market service itself commissioned two studies: an internal study and a focus study. And I am grateful to the Liberals for this request. Because this focus study highlights exactly what we always represent: One should not replace the head of the labour market service according to the motto "A scapegoat is found". What needs to be done, Mrs Federal Minister, is a total reform. We will help you with this!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10264	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol has said that by handling the provisions of the unemployment insurance law and the labour market service law through the labour market service, a benefit – let me put it this way – is the budgetary situation of the state of Vienna. I'm very clear: Both laws are federal laws, which are uniformly observed at the same time. Therefore, there is certainly no favour of any federal country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10321	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10343	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We were allowed to experience scenes of a marriage – a marriage just before the dissolution – in the last minutes. Because it's really amazing how the clubman of the ÖVP, Dr. Khol, behaves here at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Koppler: The Khol has now gone abroad!]] He's been sitting on the chancellor's lap for years and pretends that the entire social policy is still little to this day. However, if the ÖVP once managed to get to the government, everything would be different. – This is how his contribution to debate has been understood here and today. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's unwise!]] Since he here accused the Austrian Trade Union Confederation of saying and writing all 106 functions for himself, I would like to suggest to him on the trip that all ÖAAB trade unions should immediately make their functions available to them. This would be a good example and would also be a measure of how his words would withstand the truth. This is simply the way it is: to go out here, to shake the social partners or coalition partners, then to withdraw and laugh – and to look at the railways, that perhaps you will get more of a board member so that you can agree to the absurd rail system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pröll Secretary!]] That was the only reason. "Physical" can't be said, but that would almost come close to what you're doing here. Because everywhere the board posts co-cash, everywhere the positions occupy social partnership, but want to play the innocent lamb here – that, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, will certainly not enter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pröll Secretary!]] And so is friend Edler! [[Abg. Edler: Well, what's wrong?]] This is adventurous: We must fight the scourges of unemployment, he said. [[Abg. Edler: Yes! What are you doing?]] Why, then, are 300,000 people – officially – unemployed, and that for years, with an increasing trend? [[Abg. Edler: And what is international?]] Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch needed exactly 40 minutes today for the failure to answer a urgent request. In no word has it addressed the outcome of the study of the St. Gallen company Focus, which raised massive accusations: Double-tracking, inefficiency, poor training of employees – for which the employees can't do anything, but that's a question of providing resources, the possibility of training and training and the like. Interestingly, you will answer the question of the MIRA and KASSANDRA projects by not having to resort to individual projects, but to the overall measures. Now I tell you, Mrs Bundesminister: Their overall measures look so good that your Federal Chancellor has announced that all apprentices will receive a job. We currently have 6 000 apprentices without employment, and we have 22,000 apprentices parked in schools. That is to say, this announcement has gone completely by! All other announcements from the national employment plan have not yet been fulfilled. I can tell you: You will retire in this Parliament as the 'Announcing Master'. That's going to be Your nickname because all that you announce does not occur. Now, at NEW START, you say: 800 requests from 500 companies, it will be a success. You tell us after each of your speeches that all the measures you take are successes. Only they can't be measured! Why do we have an increasing number of early pensioners? Why do we have an increasing number of unemployed, of underemployed people? Why do you allow employees in Austria to work under ever more unworthy conditions? – This has been done under your responsibility, you can’t talk about it! They have poured out the filling horn over the apprentices with about 1.8 billion schilling. You will now spend 300 million schillings on these 500 or 800 requests – we will then learn from you how many have actually been integrated into the labour market. You had 150 million already, the Minister of Finance gives you another 150 million schillings. Again a barrel without soil, without perceptibility of the efficiency of these measures! At the labour market service itself, it would be easy to find solutions that are in the interests of the Austrian population: not to incement and to incite the old ideas and the old structures, but to allow competition. Admission of competition also means taking positions within the labour market service according to qualifications and not according to the party's book. Because these are your biggest problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also your problem, Mrs Minister – I understand that you can't do as you want – that you have to drag along many rivets, which, through their activity in any section of your party, simply need a leading position in any social body. That's the truth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm just telling you one more thing: What finally came out as a result of the Focus study tells you well-known opposition workers and well-known professionals for the labour market for years. I am convinced that unfortunately you, in your Social Ministry, too, the company Focus would be able to achieve the same sad outcome as the AMS, namely that inefficiency is great. I would like to see an efficient administration. Then the unemployment rate in Austria would finally fall again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10482	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10503	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the urgent question of the Liberals, I would just like to point out in general that I have a problem with your request: It is so much packed in what it would be worth to split it into separate parts and add it to three or four different urgent requests. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's true! But we don't have so many!]] It is about employment policy. In principle, it would only be worth a urgent request here to discuss the situation or the prospects of setting up the labour market service in Vienna. Dust for hours would be just that! We do not need so long to disprove Mr Khol. Because what he did here was nothing but a distortion of the facts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Edler: Pour Vienna!]] I'll explain this to you. I tried it early this morning, but you have not taken good care of it again, Mr Khol. Then, of course, we still have the fact or the fact that part of the criticism of the liberals is entirely justified in the place where the criticism of our side began years ago when it was a matter of presenting and criticizing the exclusion from the federal administration. We already said: The social partners will, if they want to follow their own interests – I do not want to talk about "driving" – of course try to serve their clients. But certain groups stay on the track. That's exactly what it turned out: The whole funding policy is dedicated to the core groups, the social partners' institutions and their associations, from BFI to WIFI. - That's the one point. The second: In the context of the social partners, women do not have much to report. This is also noted in the funding policy. This is also noted in the area of promoting and favouring women's return to the labour market with special help and programmes. The third thing we have criticised is: There is a new level of hierarchy, namely the Federal AMS, which did not exist in this form before. This alone costs more money because all the other levels of hierarchy remain. There is a new level, the Bundes-AMS, and it has become apparent that the Bundes-AMS, although formally at the top, remains between the various institutions. On the one hand, there are the national business offices, the Landes-AMS, which have a lot of money to manage as operational units and – Mr. Khol, a small side note, a indent beginning: as one sees not in the example of Vienna, but in the examples Lower Austria and Upper Austria – not even to a controlling their costs regarding. For these were the two election-leading federal states in which the millions were just thrown out. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The numbers are different!]] It was not Vienna – Vienna has a relatively good controlling, although the structure for Vienna is not favourable – but it was Upper Austria and Lower Austria. It was these two federal states because there was an election campaign, Mr Khol. The Austrian People's Party, of course, has not been used by chance in both federal states, through the support programmes, through the measures that have been put in place. It was a question of showing favoritism before elections, and of course the AMS Upper Austria as well as the AMS Lower Austria had to deal with the promotions relatively generously. It is only too late that it has actually cost hundreds of millions who now have to be paid out. It's your party, it's your representatives in the AMS who are responsible for that. Where is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen? – end indent, comment on the subject: Where is political responsibility located in the area of AMS? You, Mr Khol, criticize some of the managing directors in Vienna, including the fact that there are so many emergency workers – and you do not even come at your own door! Conclusion: We have repeatedly criticized the exclusion in the form in which it happened, because it does not clarify because it reduces responsibilities and controls. That's one of the problems. But now I am still coming to Vienna in special, Mr Khol. You can put so many taferls here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nice Taferln!]] There are beautiful colors on the Taferls, I could see that from above. There were different colors. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Green wasn't on it!]] But that alone does not mean that you can operate with different colors and can also represent different colors on a graphic. That alone is not enough, Mr Khol. The problem you have overlooked in your graphics is the structure. The employment structure, the economic structure and the labour market structure in Vienna are completely different from in Upper Austria. Nevertheless, here you can try with your taferls with the beautiful colors to do as if the problems were identical. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Not nice, no green!]] You know as well as I do – and this is a distortion of facts, Mr Khol, if you do so with better knowledge – you know just as well as I do, honourable Member Khol, that at least one third of the employees within the economic structure in Vienna are in the public service. [[Abg. Koppler: This is a Christian politician!]] [[Calls and calls between Dr. Khol and Koppler.]] They know as well as I do that in Vienna, unlike a state such as Upper Austria, there is no longer any possibility for workers or the unemployed to switch to the public service, because there is a stop there. In other words, we have a formal opportunity for, say, 1 million people in Vienna who are busy moving back to work. But one third of them are public service, and whoever falls out of it cannot return there again. There is therefore at least one third of the employment potential in Vienna, because there is a barrier in this area. This is not little, Mr Khol, at least a third. Point two: Once again – and this only shows that you do not like to listen, Mr Khol – take the high number of emergency workers in Vienna and demand: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm sitting here all the time! I even like to listen to you!]] Get out with them, get in the social aid! [[Abg. Edler: 200,000 pendulums you have to mention!]] What you are asking, Mr Khol – I have tried to tell you today – would be illegal. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Why can the others also?]] For even if a relatively large number of those emergency workers would be unwilling to work, I cannot take them out of the reference, but I can only block the reference for a limited period. Time-limited! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And then they come to social assistance!]] No, they do not come to social assistance, Mr Khol. You obviously didn't understand the system at all. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] It is tragic that you as club chairman do not understand this. – They cannot come to social assistance because they are rightly entitled to emergency aid. This can be temporarily locked, but then you will get him back to God. Mr Khol! What you're demanding here is even more brutal! They know exactly that people do not arrive in social assistance. They also want to get people around their little income at all, and that is pure brutality. If you want to do so, if you think so, Mr Khol, then we must have a debate on the Christian human image of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Edler: Khol doesn't want a hammock!]] But then it is urgent – and this would really be worth a serious request to your party’s address – to see how your Christian world and human image is still acquired. I do not want to leave the Federal Government and the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs out of responsibility despite her long speeches. [[Abg. Koppler: No more time!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have spoken for a very long time, and in the very long time of your speech you have not succeeded in resisting the objections to criticism. [[Abg. Meisinger: And nothing said!]] For there is no trend in unemployment, Mrs. Federal Minister! You know that as well as I do. They mentioned figures on the development of the unemployed in January – and this is very cautious in the request of the Liberals – according to which unemployment is declining, according to the report from the January to the extent of about 800 unemployed. You have said that you are therefore seeing a trend change. You know as well as I do the provisional Board of Management Directive on mandatory registrations in the AMS-EDV, which has been applied since December, that those persons who are always talking about by Mr. Khol – who have received a penalty for so-called inconsistency of work, which is not shown by the employer – must be removed from statistics for the time they are sanctioned. This is also an argument against Mr Khol, but he does not understand the problem on this point, because he wants to understand something else: because he wants to create political pressure on the unemployed. But that means nothing but the following: The decline in the number of unemployed by 800 people is indeed not a decrease, but we have an increase in the number of unemployed people in Germany alone in the month of January. We have an increase in the number of unemployed, but this is checked in the new statistics. This is how policy on unemployment is being made in Austria. It's announcement policy. It is not a policy that brings about structural measures, no policy that achieves sustainable action, and especially no policy that should go far beyond labour market policy and integrate employment and working time policies. [[Abg. Silhavy: Talk time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your main concern, the speaking time!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It would have been necessary to stress this also in your remarks, Mrs Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10772	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10794	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger is quite right, of course, because the problem of women's employment alone could be a matter of his own urgency. Unfortunately, so many urgent requests are not available for the opposition. That is why we had to involve them in this overall approach. Mrs. Minister! They have praised the government's successful employment policy so much. They have tried to establish this successful employment policy on examples. I would just like to ask you once again in the field of women's employment, where you see success in this. Of course, I know that there are programmes to accommodate girls in non-traditional areas. How successful are your programs? How many girls have we previously accommodated in non-traditional professions? – No, Mrs Minister does not pay attention, but she will read it in the minutes. [[Federal Minister Hostasch talks with the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] How many girls have we so far been housed in non-traditional professions, in those professions in which not only higher chances of merit can be achieved due to the very unfair evaluation of male and female work, but also in the future better opportunities for employability as a whole? Mrs. Minister! How successful have you been in women's employment if the unemployment rates of men and women have dispersed when women's unemployment has been increasing quite continuously since 1996, while stagnating in men's, perhaps in many areas, but at least according to your statistics? How successful have you been if the number of emergency workers has doubled since 1990? How successful have you been in women's employment if the length of residence of women in unemployment is exactly one third longer than that of men? How successful have you been, I have to ask you if I see the leaping up of minor jobs in which women are disproportionately represented? I am not yet talking about those who have lost their courage due to the lack of opportunities, the lack of advice and the necessary education measures and have not even been included in your statistics. Many women are now trying to calm down with the childcare check or calm down with karenz discussions – I say once. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not regard this as a success, Mrs. Minister! If so many structural shortcomings of the AMS have already been addressed today, I would like to add one more. Social partnership is male dominated, and the AMS is malely dominated, and a quarter of the posts are occupied by women. They are confident that the AMS will carry out the necessary training of the employees there in order to increase the sensitivity to gender-specific advice. Mrs. Minister! I do not rely on this because I can now give you examples of where girls who have opted for a non-traditional profession have spoken to the AMS and have wanted advice and support. Not only were they not supported, but they were advised not to do so. I do not rely on this training by the AMS, especially when one looks at how little sensitive the employees there are, for example, dealing with applicants for women's projects. The women are squandered there before they can even submit a project. And that's how you deal with women's projects as a whole. Mrs. Minister! They say that these employment policies should not be assessed on the basis of individual projects in the field of women's projects. You have pressed here before an answer – I say now. If at the same time you refer to your own two individual projects, I do not think that is the right access. Mrs. Minister! These women's projects are systematically starved, these women's projects have fallen victim to the apprenticeship offensive, and these women's projects are to be continuously taken over by the educational institutions of the social partners. The educational institutions of the social partners want to work even after the same programme of women's projects, and these women's projects work well. They have a high level of mediation, they address women individually, and they still offer something that we very much miss in education, because they also offer childcare facilities. This is often the prerequisite for women to be able to go into education at all. In this area, the AMS is not doing anything, and I believe that your responsibility lies as well as the responsibility of the Minister of Women. We need more transparency and more information when it comes to funding, co-financing of EU projects. But we also need a different form of financing. Mrs. Minister! I find it embarrassing that committed women, despite all the contradictions, the lack of information, will have to receive a project approved and then wait for months - even beyond the deadline - for the financing of this project. It is not the case that they are only financed in retrospect, that the risk and the interest burden is at their expense, that they have to provide personal benefits for months and have to deliver themselves over this timeless time. In fact, we need a different financing system, because we need central and service-oriented advisory services in the AMS, and not that this is starved and shifted to the educational institutions of the social partners. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! Another point, which is very important to me, concerns the possibility of extending, by means of educational leave, the period of leave reduced in de facto to one and a half years. I already understand that it is time for women to be helped again – I say, through a rear door – during the two years of the karenz period, I understand for the women! But, Mrs Minister, I also have the right to quality, and the AMS does not control what education is being used by these women. Quality is important otherwise, we invest in education that does not help women get back on track, which does not help women get better. I do not want to be Polish, but the potter's course at the Volkshochschule does not help women. We need regionally coordinated education programmes. I am very much in favour of these women having the opportunity of teaching, but I do not want to give up the quality claim, Mrs Minister, on educational issues. Mrs. Minister! As we are just talking about quality, I would like to say the following: If you know that every second unemployed woman has only one compulsory school degree, I ask you to consider that 29 days of education, which is also used for the beauty of the statistics of the long-term unemployed – women are primarily concerned – that women cannot provide high-quality education. In this way, these women are not made to work again with compulsory schooling and their chances as re-primary women – perhaps they have been out of work for several years now – are not improved. Mrs. Minister! The discussion revolves around Karenz, Karenz and Karenz in this House and in the public. I hope you didn't seriously mean your grandmother's and grandfather's career, you didn't respond to it today. But it would be much more important to think about social policy and employment policy: How do we bring more fathers to Karenz? How do we manage to ensure that women do not have to get out of work, that they do not have to take the risk of a career break and of restrictions on their careers after the present state of play? – If we solve this, Mrs Minister, we would be a good piece further on women’s employment issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10892	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10913	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It would now be tempting to take a closer look at the comments made by Mrs Schaffenrath. However, in view of the 17-page request that the LIF has given us today, this is only a detail, and I think it may be possible to discuss it more thoroughly in committee deliberations. Our attitude to the karenz money debate is anyway, I suppose, all here common. The LIF therefore has a request to us, which seems to me a little bit like a package of jokes, to which one, as it were, misses a mogel pack, so as to have the opportunity to malign organizations, goals and measures in a way that I am not actually used to by this party. It is also very interesting that, in your request, you call chamber officials and union officials "undemocraticly unauthorized", although they usually have to make more than one choice. It starts in operation and goes up to the chamber elections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Dear colleague Kier! I have to say that it gives me the opportunity to think, especially when I know the origin of your party and what it has developed from. Perhaps you should also think about it, I tell you quite openly and honestly! – But it is. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: This is a weak announcement!]] Think about it, colleague Schaffenrath! Also the wording Your question 12 is very transparent. Do you want to prevent people working in the AMS from joining the ÖGB? Do you find that democratic political correct? What do you want with this request? [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] They're talking about private employment agents and they're talking about it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – I do not talk to you, ladies and gentlemen, about the FPÖ, if your first speaker has been excellent in writing. I don't think I need to tell you what he spelled. Although he is a trade union founder, he explains why he represents the entrepreneurs here in this House. So such a union and such a party are not really a discussion partner for me, which is to be taken seriously – even here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They criticise, as it were, that there are too few private work intermediaries or that too many barriers exist for private work intermediaries and that there is almost a monopoly of the AMS. But You know very well that it is the AMS, which employs unemployed people on jobs and does not recruit a skilled worker from one holding and transmits it to another company. I refer in this connection to the Synthesis study. I assume it is known to you all. It shows the dynamics in the Austrian labour market. In fact, every second job is occupied by one third of unemployed people, one third of foreign workers and one third of people who were in Karenz or not. These are the facts that I think you have been hiding from better knowledge, because it would not correspond to Mr Kier if he did not know these facts. But I find it particularly interesting that, if you read your request, you do not even know how the AMS is composed, namely that the performance bodies are all in common with employers' and employees' representatives. This is not reflected in your request. And if you've listened to colleagues Khol, you'll come to the view that he doesn't know anything at all. It happened to me like the rumple, so according to the motto "Oh, how good that no one knows...!" Mr Khol! But it may be very good for us if you are talking about employment policy and women's policy, because this can only bring us voters and cost you some, and so perhaps we should be grateful for it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You'll wonder!]] - I don't think so. But I also ask about the positions of the Liberal Forum. Is there, for example, a demand from the Liberal Forum that entrepreneurs should finally report to the labour market service? Is there a requirement for firms to announce qualifications in the past? – When asked what qualifications they need next year, they often cannot even tell you. Or: How do you think that entrepreneurs are increasingly withdrawing from apprenticeship training and can all be financed by the public authorities? – Deregulation everywhere, we already know. Why not hear nothing from the Liberal Forum when a Styrian economic chamber speaks of the social hammock that Mr Khol has probably referred to today with the related sanctions? – Where do your arguments remain, where do your positions remain? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who distributed the AMS? - The opposition? Who, then, has included the employee's interests?]] – I have not criticised their involvement. Nor should the economy be released from responsibility, Mrs Petrovic! Obviously you have a very own attitude in this regard, because you believe that this can be done away with by the economy. That will not be feasible. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The Chamber is not the Economy!]] But it is very interesting for you to quote colleagues and use him to argue with the policy of the stronger – which is obviously your policy – and to remove protection and social measures. I am already aware that you have certain groups of persons as a goal, and that is also your right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] – But then tell it and hang You don't have to change the cover of charity! What do you really want with your basic income discussion? – They want people who have to work because they live by this work to be at the disposal of the economy as cheap and cheap workers. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is an insanity!]] They want state support for each individual and for employment, employment, and "Mc jobs". [[Abg. Gaugg: They allow cheap workers!]] That's your goal. I think that should really be put to the point. [[Further call of the Abg. Gaugg.]] – You don’t understand any related sentences because you just spell. It's known to me. [[Abg. Gaugg: Double and triple cashiers!]] But we recognize the situation of people, we recognize social relationships, and for us man is at the heart of us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For us, the human being is where he stands. [[Abg. Gaugg: Multifunctional, multi-cassier!]] Man is to be accompanied where he needs help and support. One should not spit big sounds like other people and not start unions that represent business interests here in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11094	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11116	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If, as part of this urgent request, we are having a reform discussion on the labour market service today, I think we should first of all note that the expectation of the labour market service is not to create work – in the end, it can only be successful entrepreneurs – but rather to mediate work and create a framework for successful entrepreneurs to have a chance to get through the labour market service also those forces they urgently need. This is the job of the labour market service. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that when we discuss the labour market service, we must, in fact, discuss very differently – as the Clubobmann Khol has done. Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no coincidence that, for example, in Lower Austria, Mr. Landeshuptmann Pröll praises the labour market service Niederösterreich very much and in Vienna, Mr. Landeshupmann and Mayor Häupl highly criticises the labour market service Vienna. This is not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, and it also contradicts the theory that everything is only due to the other economic structure in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not referring to the focus opinion now, but to a document of the labour market service Vienna, National Directorate, dated 26. January. I'm just quoting two sentences from it: "Disputes of competence and competence arise in various areas of responsibility. Customers, both job-seekers and entrepreneurs, are still being sent back and forth between the organizational units." – This is "Efficiency" of the employment placement in the labour market service Vienna. This has nothing to do with the economic structure at all. This is a real weakness in the labour market service Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Your head nick shows that you have recognized the problems, and you also know that the problem alone with head rollers cannot be solved. Structural changes must be made in Vienna in order to solve the problem. If we make critical statements here, then in the sense of constructive criticism and an offer to change the course together. That is why, Gottfried Feurstein, our social spokesperson, and I, about three weeks ago, presented a ten-point programme to reform the labour market service. - I'm allowed to sum up very briefly. First point: We would also have a staggering capacity expansion of the labour market service without a man's staff, if we here in Parliament would be willing to ask the practitioners who are at the front of the regional service daily, which provisions of the law are administratively time consuming, that two or three people should be employed, which could be used much more efficiently for employment placement, and then act accordingly. [[Abg. Oillinger: You decided!]] That would be an appeal to you, too, Mr Oillinger. They only come here and criticize. This is not a concrete proposal! It is not a question of having to be done, but we as a Parliament could do so. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is invited to submit proposals to Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: By permission, we are the opposition!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Second point: There would be a substantial capacity increase for labour market services if we were to remove those barriers that are opposed to private employment today. And these do not exist in the field of trade. [[Abg. Oils: It's done!]] [[Complementary of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] I think it is anachronistic at a time when we are running after every job, to throw those beatings in front of the feet that are willing to carry out private work placements. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who's doing that?]] - That's what's done. Read the provisions of the Labour Market Promotion Act! Read the examination regulation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, then see what is to be fulfilled so that someone can even perform private employment. [[Abg. Wabl: Who made the determination? Was that you?]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Who did this?]] I don't know why you're so excited, Mrs. Colleague? Why are you so excited? [[Abg. Wabl: Who decided?]] – You probably decided most of the time. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: I'm not excited!]] [[Calls and calls between the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Third point: We have excellent best practice models in individual Länder. What prevents the other federal states from adopting these models? – I only mention the example of Lower Austria. There our slogan has been implemented for a long time, which reads: Not to finance unemployment, but to promote work! That is, not to give the unemployed the money, but to the farm if he employs the unemployed. Mr Peter! It costs something, I know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] But I think it is much more favourable to hire the unemployed and give the farm the money than to give the unemployed the money and say, your problem is solved, you have your unemployment allowance and be satisfied, even if you have no job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point: Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to expressly say here that I know very many dedicated young skilled employees in the regional labour market services. I believe that we should also make proposals – every staff consulting agency is able to do so – on how to pay a performance-oriented fee for these employees. This should not be done in accordance with Scheme F, but should also be taken into account in the salary system for young employees. The fifth point in our proposals concerns the provision of the Internet. In the Federal average, we currently have 11.8 percent Internet communication, in Styria alone 32 percent. What are the big differences? Why can't you transfer this best practice model to other countries? – This is not a task for Parliament, but for the operational part of the labour market service and the individual national business offices. The sixth point of our proposals: We are committed to having a consultation with every unemployed person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] The problem is not solved if I transfer unemployment benefits to the unemployed. It may be the mistake that we have believed for years that the problem has been solved: He's getting a social benefit anyway, and he's supposed to be happy because he's getting the unemployment benefit. – Therefore, a mandatory consultation with every unemployed person! I call it the seventh point – I know that this may not be so popular at all –: For the long-term unemployed, there should be an obligation for social services or for use in the environment if there is no other possibility. [[Abg. Koppler: There has already been that!]] I believe that in this respect we have a task in our society, which will benefit both the unemployed and the environment or the social sector. Behind the point – very important in connection with the whole discussion on "Karenzurf" –: We need massive qualification programmes to promote the return of women after leave. We have always had the barrier that, when the mothers are two or three years away from the farm, the farm is now totally reorganised and the qualification is no longer given. I believe that the re-entry aid for women, for mothers after vacation, would be a good investment in money. Neunter Dott, he is particularly concerned with older workers – we only presented a catalogue to the Federal Chancellor today –: Increase the bonus for the recruitment of older workers. A bonus of an average of 6 300 S per year is insufficient if at the same time the malus is approximately 25,000 S per year. Ladies and gentlemen! The last and tenth point of our programme – which is probably the major challenge for the next few years – is the massive use of labour market funding for the skills of workers. We always have the problem that, although workers are present, they do not have the skills required on the labour market. These ten points of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, have all been set up with the aim of not simply criticizing, but to make proposals on how to do better. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister, you have our full support as a government partner if you are going to implement this ten-point programme together with us and not just with the ÖGB.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11305	Mr Dolinschek has the floor now. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There are different ways of considering this situation. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said at the beginning of your opinion that it was a legitimate right of opposition to rule out the negative points. I see it that way. You're in the government. You have the opportunity to implement certain things. They have said that the Federal Government is pursuing a successful employment policy. – Well, the numbers actually prove something different. They put one in the light, the opposition pushes the other into the light. But the Austrians are affected. 115 million schillings are provided for "NEW START". They say that 800 people and 500 farms have reported, which is 200 000 S per person per year. It is a legitimate right to provide some funding. In principle, however, it is only with promotions that we do not create employment, but they are, of course, a means of doing so. Mr Stumvoll has previously meant that problems are not solved by paying out unemployment benefit, but also by conveying people. That's what I'm giving him. But problems are not solved either by disbursing subsidies and then by recruiting the entrepreneurs only people if they get a promotion for them. It is precisely because the framework conditions need to be changed, and the cause must be taken from the roots, Mrs Federal Minister! In 1994 the labour market administration was rebaptised into labour market service and meant that mediation should be in the foreground, and the administration should go into the background. Now the Swiss company Focus has taught us another. I don't wonder, because in the AMS the same people are working as before, and the conditions have not changed. There is just as much a constant introduction from a party-political point of view. Now it is more the social partners. In the past, this was assumed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but you still have the supervisory duty. The National Employment Plan has announced that 20 000 to 30 000 jobs will be created by active labour market management. How do you do that? – The study shows that Austria is lagging behind in Europe because we only provide 0.5% of the gross domestic product for active job placement. We offer re-trainings today, and the beneficiaries of these re-trainings are the Wifi and the BFI, which thereby earn a basket money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is the use of someone who is over 50 years old today when he is sent to re-training and the time is being beaten there? – Because under these conditions, as we have today, no more than 50-year-olds will be employed. ==References====External links== He said he wanted to be an employment chancellor. As an employment chancellor, he will certainly not go into history if one leads to the figures. The government has repeatedly claimed that total employment has increased since 1997, by 8,000 jobs in 1997 and by 22 000 in 1998 to around 3 million jobs. However, these increases are compared to the fact that the number of older people working in employment has increased considerably more than the number of employment relationships, resulting in a fall in the employment rate in Austria in these years. If you look at the figures in the age groups, it is noted that there is an unemployment rate of 10.5% in the over 55s, but also in the age group between 15 and 18 years of age, it is 3.3 percent. The reason why it is so low in this area lies in the fact that young people are not yet covered by statistics, but are sent in courses and therefore the numbers are artificially pressed down. This official unemployment statistics – which has already been said today – is more than beautiful. Because if one calculates the hidden unemployed we have in Austria – including, of course, the early pensioners, the unemployed leavers, the emergency workers, the beneficiaries of special support and the members of pension funds – then one comes to a very different section, to a value which is at the European average, if not above. But with us, the statistics are beautiful. I can say a few words to the women: Mrs. Federal Minister! You yourself are a woman, I do not agree with your commitment that you are committed to working for women on the labour market. But you also need to change the framework. Unemployment is particularly affected by women. The new "record" of the unemployment rate for women averaged 7.5 percent per year. Those of the men are slightly lower according to these beautiful statistics. However, the problems of women often lie in the lack of and too little compatibility between family and work. That is to say, there is no need-oriented childcare facilities in Austria at all. That would help our childcare check, which would create jobs for day mothers and would be implemented immediately. Get used to it, too!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11391	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11412	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In today's debate, I find myself in a different line of speech: If you have such friends, you no longer need enemies!, one: If you have such a coalition partner, you almost no longer need an opposition. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Toothless opposition means that, isn't it?]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like With you, it's not a real opposition, so I said "nearly no opposition." [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You must serve to the green-red opposition!]] It's more opposition rhetoric with you, which you present to us. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Electoral war-tork!]] I'm afraid it's not a real election opposition rhetoric. That is what both government parties – government partners are not, they are rather government opponents – in themselves, that they always tend to be a very intense opposition rhetoric in pre-election times. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Sometimes it is quite worthwhile to get out of the old protocols. ==References== ==References====External links== April – when the AMS was distributed, as it is so beautiful, you have taken the word and said, among other things: [[Abg. Wabl: Not on 1. April!]] "And I would also like to say that we know what obligation and what responsibility we assume by taking over as a representative of interests, as an economic chamber in the institutions – down to the district level. I'd also like to admit: We will not be able to say so easily in the future, because this does not work because the anonymous labour market administration fails, but we will have to be inside, co-designed, and also co-responsible in the future." [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Nevertheless, I can do a little better!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like There is no objection, in principle, that a person comes to the realization that something can be done even better. Only at that time did both government parties, including today's Minister of Social Affairs, then MPs, mean: All of this is getting much more efficient, now unemployment is no longer managed, now it is very efficient to communicate, now you can finally solve the problems of the labour market. – At the time, you mentioned regionalization as a positive – boldly literally – in your speech: "The trade union in Zwettl or the Chamber of Commerce in Zwettl knows much better how the labour market problems look at how to solve them than any in Vienna who believes he can solve these problems centrally." [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I emphasized this today!]] They sit by their own division in all the bodies, down to the district level, but for what happened there, only social democracy was again responsible. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: As a minority!]] So it can't be that way. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like They say you can't be promoted primarily. There's always that bad word from the hammock. It's not that funny to live from 7 000 s a month. I think it is impossible at all, probably we can hardly imagine all of us sitting here in this room, how women of 7 000 s live a month. But, Mr President, I am stupid to miss this support reserve when it comes to economic support. Especially from the Social Ministry – I had the pleasure, the pleasure and the honor of personally getting to know this area – many billions have been flown to the economy, quite tax-free, as pure support measures, partly with little success. I know that there was also a strong effort from the ÖVP side – let us say – to grant these grants. Or I compare it with another area in which you traditionally make yourself very strong: 8.5 billion schilling for agriculture. The greens carry this. We are in favour of maintaining small and medium-sized farming. But to disburse 8.5 billion for agriculture and still lose 10 to 18 jobs every day in agriculture – that is, a dramatic job loss despite much higher billions of funding than the sum of all the unemployed – is not a positive current account, Mr Deputies stupid! You should go into what your valuations look like in this regard. I have the impression that your critical potential is increasing first once in pre-election periods, second once if it is at the expense of the counter-coalition, and thirdly, it is not so marked when it comes to promoting which tend to be attributed to a conservative-black area. I allow myself to note in all forms here. I also allow myself to say that I have already warned of the very effects that you have rightly criticized today that I warned at the time – yes, among other things before you – of the complete social partnership. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] I said: It will not become more transparent, it will not become more efficient, the costs will not decrease, unemployment – I was afraid at that time – will not fall significantly. - All of this has occurred. As regards the promotion of women and the gender discrimination of the AMS, I can only join my colleague Schaffenrath. Unfortunately, she is right. Mrs. Federal Minister! This is also my main criticism: It cannot be assumed that in an institution which has to serve the labour market problems of all Austrians, of the two boards two men and of the 18 national directors or alternates are 17 men and one deputy woman in Vienna. That is, of 20 top positions, one with a woman in a deputy position. That is why it is no wonder that the life perspective, as is typical of many women, is too small in the labour market service. The Federal Chamber of Commerce has also not made itself very strong that it sends women into the bodies. This has become a much stronger male-dominated association than the old AMV it has ever been. I would also like to make a brief comment on the figures: 1.6 billion Schilling has predicted Klubobmann Khol to provide emergency aid savings potential in Vienna. My colleague, Mr Oellinger, has already said in fact why this comparison is extremely sluggish. I would also like to draw your attention to the budgetary structures. When the ÖVP model comes to bear again, to bring women into dependence on partners, to perceive women socially only if they live in the classical small family, then from our point of view there is a clear rejection. They know that the emergency aid is linked to the fact that no partner or partner is present who is in full service. If you now have a higher share of single households in a big city like Vienna, what do you want to do, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? Ordinary a marital compulsion? Elfriede Hammerl once said it half-ironically on a women's day: We must almost be happy if, from a conservative point of view, the demand for reintroduction of widows is not yet met. – So such concepts are not portable. Look You're looking at the forms of the budget! I think the women who live from the emergency aid – you can't say that at all, but who have to come out with it somehow – have really not deserved political ridicule to their illustrious situation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing: I was talking about the two male boards. We now hear that your stronger ringing for more influence in the AMS leads to the fact that one board of directors, which tends to be attributed to your side, Mr Böhm, apparently wants to inherit Mr Buchinger. This is already significant, and in view of the scale of what we are talking about – agriculture, the economy, the unemployed, emergency workers – one should perhaps also talk to Mr Böhm about the fact that his first request, if he was installed there, was a service car. If this is the employer's way of representing interests, I would ask the economic representatives to go a little more.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11546	Mrs Reitsamer spoke with a desired speaking time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11567	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Liberals have already said that a lot has been packed into the question is, of course, legitimate, because each group can only bring in a certain number of urgent questions. The title is: Misstart for "NEW START", but the main focus is on structural failures in the labour market service. In the request, the study of "Focus" is quoted. To this end, I must say: Because the major reform of the AMS did not bring the desired success, the AMS itself commissioned this study. I would like other organizations to show such a self-critical attitude, which would be very helpful to us. However, I would also like to deal with the statements made by Dr. Khol. If Mr Klubobmann Kostelka had left here today and had attacked an ÖVP minister in this way, then Mr. Dr. Khol would have been shot up like a tarantel and would have provoked the coalition break. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I must say this quite honestly to you, but the opposition parties have already responded to it. Whoever has such friends really doesn't need any more enemies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For this, Dr. Khol was a little less informed. He spoke of 106 offices, he didn't know it was 114. Dr. Khol attacked the Federal Minister for her supervision at the AMS Vienna. Mr Oellinger has shown very precisely the differences between the Upper Austria and Vienna, so I can save myself for time. But one thing I'm saying: What does the ÖVP believe to have a representation in the Federal Business Office? – Thank you very much for having been able to turn to him for a long time, I mean. Another thing: Of course, Dr. Khol immediately after his attacks got the praise from the "F". He quickly had to go over to the "F" to let himself be praised. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wabl.]] I want to come back to the subject now. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We can't do anything for Mr. Khol to praise us!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] - Don't be upset! It's a pity for the energies that pump here. I don't listen to you anyway, because with the low level of your attacks you can't insult me. You can believe me. [[Call to the liberals: That was not an attack against you!]] A report from the EU Commission has been discussed, and the Minister has already rejected it. It has also raised very closely the criteria for the same calculation of unemployment here. They just didn't keep one thing apart: They do not distinguish between unemployment and unemployment. Unemployment has not yet been found in any unemployment statistics in the world. I also recognize in your request an intensive lobbying for private intermediaries. There is no competitive thinking on the part of the AMS, on the contrary, one is willing to cooperate even more strongly. There will be additional proposals in this respect by the end of March. However, it must not be forgotten that private mediation is payable and that the labour market service does not allow the materials to be delivered free of charge and franco. Let me give you a few figures: The AMS employs 180 000 job vacancies per anno and provides 405,000 unemployed in employment. In the case of private intermediaries, the number of job vacancies is less than 2 000, and the practical placement of unemployed is equal to zero. They assumed that the apprenticeship offensive would not have worked. I remember the novelle and why we could make this novel. We were able to go back to previous years, so that these could still come into the enjoyment of this apprentice offensive. Mrs Schaffenrath has dealt with the promotion of women, just a few figures: The proportion of women in unemployment is unfortunately very high at 44.9%, but the proportion of women in the AMS funding is at least 48 percent. Women are above average longer represented in support measures of the AMS and, in particular, in the case of integration aid and vocational training measures. That you don't misunderstand me: I expressly welcome this. The promotion of girls in women's non-traditional professions increased by 200 percent from 1995 to 1996 and by a further 100 percent from 1996 to 1997. I would also like to draw attention to my positive experiences with the AMS Salzburg. And if you say here today, "NEW START" – on average 200 000 S per employee per year, I must tell you the following: If I get 200 000 S of support for a worker in the first year in those associations in which I am chairmen, I can very well use this in the way that I can also employ this labour force in the following years. You have to be a bit creative, too. Mr Peter has complained very much about the fact that everything is only divided under red and black. Mr Peter! I think you as the Upper Austrian know the radio show "Linzer Torte". The head of the AMS has known himself in this expressly to the liberals and said he had nothing to do with social democracy. And in the Styria there is, I know for myself, a managing director who belongs to the "F". - That's for division under red and black. Just as you said here, it's God's thanks, I'd like to say, not. And with that, the eternal precepts can finally stop here!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11637	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. Time remaining for the club: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11658	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to miss making some corrections. First correction: The coalition parties have jointly designed key areas of labour market policy. We have jointly carried out the distribution of the AMS. We have jointly adopted the National Employment Action Plan here a few months ago. But, ladies and gentlemen, we demand a differentiated assessment of the situation of labour market policy in Austria. And this differentiated assessment has boldly made it clear by honourable Members Khol and MEPs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not allow ourselves to praise where one can praise but also to criticize where one has to criticize. And the criticism attached to the AMS Vienna was justified. Not of about the state captain and mayor of Vienna has also criticized the AMS Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! This was so far that the proceeds of the head of the labour market service in Vienna were also required from your ranks. Today, in a press release, the Federal Minister has made it very clear that it would have been preferable if the head of the labour market service had been replaced by Vienna. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Reitsamer: What then is against the fact that we are doing just as differentiatedly in our criticism? [[Abg. Religious: It only depends on how the criticism is expressed!]] It is also wrong what the Greens say: Vienna would have a more unfavourable structure. Mr Oellinger! I would like us to have so many jobs in all the cities offered by local authorities, as many secure jobs offered in central banks and insurance companies as in Vienna. [[Abg. Oillingers: They're taking up?]] I say that the labour market structure is much cheaper in Vienna than in many other parts of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Since when do banks still take up people?]] These findings you have made are designed to discuss the problem over. And you passed by the problem! [[Abg. Oellinger: You have not even recognized the problem, Mr Feurstein!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a question of finding new ways where labour market policy has become a dead end. And labour market policy has become a dead end in individual areas. It has become a dead end with regard to the feasibility of adopting a job. It has been decided by the National Council, I would like to point out, a year and a half ago that the more than 55-year-old women and the more than 60-year-old men from 1st century onwards. January 2000 must adopt a suitable job, and if it is not adopted and the conditions for early retirement are met, the person concerned must be transferred to the early retirement pension. – A suitable workplace! I believe that we must take greater account of this consideration of the "suitable job" in the entire employment placement. We are no longer going through with today's point of view. We need new criteria, and other countries have already adopted this criterion of "suitable job". I am thinking of Sweden, in some areas also in Germany, where we have already said: We need suitable jobs for the people! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! In this sense you have also received a cry for help from the tourism industry from the Arlberg region, from Montafon, from Vorarlberg. We have jobs and we need people working with us. Mr Peter is right: If there were 23 000 jobseekers in the tourism sector in January 1999, it cannot be found in Vorarlberg that there is no workers suitable for these jobs, that no workers can be brought to such jobs, that jobs are best paid where they are provided with all social benefits, where housing is offered. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is just a question of mediation!]] It is not the fault of the labour market service Bludenz, which is working hard – I know that – but it is due to the lack of cooperation of the labour market service in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's exactly how it is!]] In this area, we need more cooperation, there should not be so much independence, but more cooperation and more exchange of information and data, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] I have also dealt with the bureaucracy that has already been addressed. I have said to various professionals who really do not come from my group in the labour market service: Now tell me exactly what we could improve to have less bureaucracy! – Two points are in the foreground. The first point: A huge effort is being made to calculate the family allowance, the child allowance for unemployment benefit. Why can't we set new criteria in this context? We reject the partner income and decide on other criteria for setting the family allowance for unemployment benefit, for emergency aid. Today's method of constantly reviewing the partner's income – does he not receive the family surcharge? – is unworthy and only prepares bureaucratic effort. [[Abg. Oillinger: Have you decided!]] Another regulation no longer costs is cost-neutral. Second point: Some time ago, we introduced the educational career with educational money. For this purpose, the AMS must carry out extensive investigations on the basis of a decree from the Ministry, whether the person concerned actually attends the courses. Ladies and gentlemen! If a company, a company says: I'm sending my staff, my assistant in education, then that should be enough. One could check, in a sample, whether this employee really took part in the course. Two concrete examples of where and how to reduce red tape, which would free labour placement forces, would be free for what labour market services have to do. Let's go that way! Let us take these proposals seriously, and let us see that the labour market service comes out of the dead end of the deadlock. Mrs. Minister! It is our common concern to really deal with and resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11807	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11828	Ladies and gentlemen! When we decided about five years ago to disburse labour market management from the Federal Ministry of Social Administration, it was announced as a major change that will bring an efficient, improved mediation. Now, five years later, we now have a Federal Chancellor who said he wanted to be an employment chancellor, the Socialists had declared 1998 the "year of work", but unemployment has assumed a record value. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The employees have accepted a record amount!]] We have a labour market service, which still does not work. Mediation has not improved, but costs are higher. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, we have more employees, but you leave 20 000 foreigners each year who occupy these new jobs that you create, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you do with the new posts you create is a pure eye-catching, because, as I said, on the other hand, foreigners are admitted, who then occupy these posts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this labour market administration does not work is now black and white through this study of the St. Gallen Institute. This one has again decided to reorganise. Now we have been paying 100 million schillings a year for the distributed, new labour market service and now we have to pay the costs for a reorganisation because everything was more or less for the cat. And that's your policy! That's what I'm Your labour market policy, Mrs. Minister! How long do you want to continue with a labour market service that is totally politicalized, which does not fulfil its purpose and which only manages unemployment? I ask you: How long do you want to make such a cover-up policy as before, a beautification policy? – They always show numbers with which in reality only politics is made. For example, there is a press release on the labour market at the end of January 1999. In this you write: The unemployment rate in Austria is 4.4 percent. – Shame to write: "seasonally adjusted values". The average citizen, of course, believes that we only have 4.4 percent unemployment. However, both this figure, which is the 4.4 percent, as well as the 7.1 percent re-played by the EU Commission report on underemployment in the EU in 1997. The Commission concludes that in Austria the unemployment rate is not 7.1 percent but 10.3%. So: All that you always give in your press release and other information is actually only intended to weigh the Austrians in safety or to beautify the true extent of unemployment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Such self - deception really cannot help to change. For every improvement in a situation has a condition for taking stock, an honest, objective view of what it looks like. And we miss this honest, open recording of the stock. They press themselves in front of the unpleasant facts, you press around the unpleasant numbers around. They send all those who are being terminated and unemployed into early retirement, into questionable re-trainings and then go with a percentage of unemployment to the public, who is not right in the back and in the front. Of course: If one is based on such federal partners as Mrs Silhavy, who say: It's all right anyway, then you can calm down a little bit. But you should not do that because you do not want to go to Mrs Silhavy's level, Mrs Minister. I hope so. In any case, beautiful words alone do not benefit, but the hard facts count when you want to change something. As I said, Honesty is great! Now to you from the Austrian People's Party. They have, Mr President, boldly made it clear to the project that those who are unemployed may be required to engage in non-profit activities. You know what? – Ten years ago we presented this project as the Berlin model here. We have encouraged this to be done in Austria, because the number of emergency workers is simply too high. This has been rejected by the Socialists. It was said to be forced labour, and forced labour we reject in Austria. This is already proposed by a socialist country politician, but it is still not done. Now you're proposing it. Let us do it together, Mr President. We could – ÖVP, FPÖ – set up a very good project. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: This is free employment policy!]] [[Abg. Koppler: This is a program! Blue-black!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word about a group of unemployed people who have not been mentioned today and who do not appear in the urgent request of the Liberals, namely the disabled. In Vienna, unemployment among the disabled has increased enormously, and among the total unemployed, the unemployment rate is 16.06 percent. I believe, Madam Minister, that you should see that the public hand is going ahead with a good example. She does not, but quite the contrary: The Ministries are sumptuous, very blasphemous. Your party colleague, Mr. Einm, owes 289 posts to the disabled, Minister Schlögl 634 posts, Mr. Fassleven 177 open posts, which are not occupied by the disabled. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The more socialist the resort, the less you take care of the disabled!]] You would need to take sufficient action – and both parties – in order to improve at least the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11936	Mrs Dr Moser-Starrach referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor to that. 2 minutes speaking time. You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11969	Mr President. I would like to comment on Mrs Petrovic's comments. She said that the problem of labour market services could be brought to a very simple denominator, namely: Executive Director Mag. Böhm wants to inherit Executive Director Buchinger, and as the first official transaction he demands a service car. The right thing is: Both have a service car in their contract and share a chauffeur because they have used the second chauffeur as a serviceman in the corporate consulting department in Vienna. They both drive 15 000 to 20 000 kilometres per year in their private car and do not calculate it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12005	Mr Blünegger has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12026	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have listened carefully to the debates on the urgent question of the Liberals and I support this urgent request by the Liberals. However, the debates of this Federal Government and its speakers were such that we could ask ourselves: Why is this government still there? Finally, break up this government! It should be said that when one hears these speeches, it must be said. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] It is really ridiculous that the Social Democrats of the EIA are blaming and vice versa. Of course, you can only say: In fact, it is this government, which is reflected in all these debates, which does not take the situation of workers and workers seriously at all. Pure flossels are brought here, and it is only beautifully spoken. The official unemployment statistics presented to us by this government are nothing but a fairy tale book, Mrs Minister. Unemployment statistics are distorted because they do not take account of various unemployed people, mainly in the area of women. We know that women who want to get back into the profession do not seem to be, they are not even treated as unemployed, they are not taken into account as jobseekers, they are not taken into account in statistics. They're only beautiful dyes. From this point of view, I can say: The Federal Government should finally stop because we have heard enough. Our Federal Chancellor keeps talking about unemployment being less high, and it is the worst unemployment rates the Second Republic has to show. A proof that he is just talking and doing nothing over and over again is that he said at the SPÖ Declaration Conference in Salzburg that he will be making a trend change this year. This trend turns out to be so bad that he's already been on the 1st. In May 1998, it stated that this year was declared the "year of work". But I can't see any results. I would like to draw your attention to something, Mrs Minister, which is the situation of the apprenticeship offensive, which you always put in the foreground. In the "Vorarlberger Zeitung" of 4.2.1999 was an article entitled "Die Lehrlingsförderungsfalle". An entrepreneur writes, among other things, the following: "After I applied for this funding for the second year of education, lapidar was given to me to answer that the funding was deleted." – I would like to leave it with the one sentence and not read it any more, because it is just a pity around time. If it is the job of the labour market service to make promises, then it is about the unemployed badly ordered. [[Abg. Koppler: The Meisinger wants to talk too!]] Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, I can tell you one thing: Your policy needs a change! [[Abg. Koppler: You, the Meisinger wants to talk too! You've been talking too long!]] This also says your own party comrade, the ÖGB chairman of the state of Tyrol. See that this government finally withdraws so that workers and the unemployed finally have confidence again. [[Abg. Koppler: Remember the Meisinger! He wants to talk too!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12100	I call Mr Meisinger. [[Abg. Koppler: Half an hour of speech!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. That's the quota for your club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12130	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It has already been said a lot of truth on the one hand today, but on the other hand it has been done by you and your group in fine dyeing and has been shown to be incredible. The fact is that in Upper Austria, for example, a unemployed person went to the employment office and sought unemployment support. To increase his job opportunities, he made a master's exam. But what happens? He will remove unemployment support because he is not available. Although he is a family father and he is looking for a post with the Master Test Certificate, he is removed from further unemployment support. He is accused of preventing his mediation by going to the interview with the Master Test Certificate. Please check the case, Mrs. Federal Minister! There's a request on the way. It is not reasonable for workers who pay unemployment contributions to be stamped by the bureaucratic barriers of that State to become beggars and beggars. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It can't be that socialism is out of the way of working people, just because the law is done enough. You have to go out once to see the reality. Finally, Mrs Federal Minister, I should like to say one more thing: As long as there are job vacancies on the labour market and as long as there are Austrians who are unemployed, there may generally be no new employment permits for foreigners. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are as many as twice as many unemployed foreigners as domestics. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] We know where the value of this federal government lies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12188	There is now a speech by Mr Dr Kier. Mr President, the speaking time of your club in this debate is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12209	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I and my group are very concerned about this question, and I wanted to use the conclusion of this debate to address some of the arguments that have been put forward here, because I believe that the debate has been partially misunderstood and misused. It is the good right of the opposition and it is necessary to take a sharp attack on urgent questions, but it was not our idea to build a coalition partner, the coalition government, so to speak, a jump for attacks, which are all actually shots in one's own sleep. It was stupid to say that Mr Petrovic then quoted it from the Minutes, and at the beginning of my first speech I clearly worked it out: The joint capacity of the bodies – all the bodies, Mr Silhavy, I have pointed out – is a structure which tends to be unanimous and has its weaknesses, because there is no standard of conflict in the event that unanimity cannot be achieved, because there are no majority decisions in favour of the crisis. And any body dependent on unanimity in the event of a crisis may be a peaceful body, but not an efficient one. However, an efficient labour market service needs decision-making bodies which, in the event of an emergency, also have to be able to decide by a limited majority, otherwise they will not decide at all. This is precisely the reason why there has been no real structural reform in Vienna to date. Do you understand why we've been raised about it? – Because this is a construction whose weakness was already zero in the hour. You didn't need this "Focus" study four years later. I am pleased when Mrs. Federal Minister thinks that it is worthwhile to have yourself evaluated by a study. Only: In view of these serious construction errors, every business consultant around the corner could have told you when it was founded that it was not possible. If you want to decompose, you must have organs in which, if necessary, a majority decision can also be taken. And if you only occupy 1 :1, then you'll be paralysing yourself. I believe that it is good to take unanimous decisions in such bodies, but it must be voluntary unanimity, not forced, because otherwise no decision can be made at all. The design error in this case is in the clear text proporz. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] He is not bad because he is unfair, but because he leads to paralysis. Your coalition partner tells you every day that it is a paralysis if you can necessarily vote only 1 : 1. Do you not notice that this structural error is not only bad in a coalition government of this kind, but also within the AMS as a construction feature? You can still sit so good people, the most creative managing directors of this world can put you down when they are controlled by parity bodies, you necessarily paralyze these people. This mistake, I think, is the real problem, and I would have expected opinions to do so, but not such an apprehension as it came from, for example, Klubobmann Khol. We had put Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch at the centre – logically, because responsible – when Klubobmann Khol links up with each other figures here, which, for every expert and for every professional, can not be associated with each other with each other – namely, the Vienna figures and the other numbers – and if he does so only to make fear, to give the impression that in Vienna the Tachinians are so to speak, only so to speak, although he knows that the structural question in the fire glass of an agglomeration unit like Vienna is of course more on the table – public service; Mr Oellinger has already mentioned this – then it is simply unfair. It's unfair to do something like this and to run apprehension, conservative, not to say: reactionary fear. And this, I mean, was to be rejected. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition to this, Mr Meisinger's touching attempt and the touching attempt of Mrs Partik-Pablé to make foreigners a scapegoat for the labour market are taking on a modest stand; it is modest because we are already accustomed to this reflection. For years there has been the reflex: Foreigners out – unemployed away! Everyone knows that this can only be said by someone who has no idea of the structures, so he assumes that all these works are so easy to forgive. Mr Silhavy! A few comments on your comments. If you actually report all the open spaces to the AMS, you may have the problem of constantly being sent to a person you don't want at all. Even if you provide the qualification, that doesn't mean anything at all with the AMS. If you say English is a prerequisite, you get people who can't get English and so on. – That’s why all you say is a bit doubly. The blocking of ÖGB and AK can be found in the documentation. There is a letter with a joint letter from ÖGB and AK. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I'm just saying it. And these organizations are not democratically legitimate. I have been a member of ÖGB for 20 years and have never been allowed to take part in a single election within the ÖGB because it has not been advertised at all. – That was my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12296	There is no more word message for this. This debate is closed. Short debate on Question Time 4887/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12317	We now come to a brief debate on the reply to the question with the order number 4887/AB. This is the answer to a question put by Members Dr Gabriela Moser and Comrades. The written answer to this request has been distributed in the hall. The reading is therefore not sufficient. I recall the provisions on the Rules of Procedure: The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons, and all the other Members have 5 minutes. The members of the Federal Government and State Secretarys should also, as far as possible, be guided by a term of 10 minutes. I now give the floor to Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12347	Mr President. Mrs. Minister, it seems you're leaving the hall. I thought you were representing Mr. Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12363	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is already in the house. Should I interrupt until he appears here on the government bank?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12378	I'm looking for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12402	Good. Do you agree that Mrs Hostasch is sitting here until the Foreign Minister has been published? - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12418	The question was addressed to the Foreign Minister, and I believe that the problem of Temelin is so serious that it would be very important for the representative of Austria to be present at EU level, the representative of Austria in the international field, the representative of Austria in relation to our neighbouring country of the Czech Republic on this essential subject. I therefore call for interruption until the Foreign Minister has taken his place on the Government Bank.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12436	Good. I interrupt the sitting and note that your speech so far amounted to 1 minute and 8 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12460	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a speaking time of 9 minutes now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12476	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is, in principle, a broad consensus between all five parliamentary parties, which reaches the clear and strict anti-atomic line of Austria. There is this consensus. At the same time, however, there is a great gap, a great discrepancy, a great leap to the implementation of this will by five parties here in this House, the transformation into activities, in individual actions, in individual advances in Austrian anti-atomic policy. Foreign Minister! My question to you was what you intend to do with the Temelin nuclear power station, what you intend to do in connection with the K2/R4 nuclear power plant, and what kind of diplomatic letter you intend to send on this matter. Your answer to this is significant and underlines the discrepancy between what we, all five parties represented in the House, have decided here, and what you are carrying outside, and how you are acting outside. ==References== In July 1997, there was consensus that there must be activities and international cooperation with regard to the Temelin nuclear power station with a view to offering alternative projects. ==References== In July 1997, there was also a consensus that funding instruments should be available at EU level to enable the candidate countries to make a non-atomic alternative. – That's what consensus was like on 10 October. ==References== There was also a five-party consensus on 27 July. May 1998, which was once again: Construction stop of the Temelin nuclear power station, alternative projects, EU funding. ==References== October 1998, half a year later, in the course of the discussion of the nuclear people's desire, there was again a five-party decision here, which was in the same direction and in which, above all and specifically, Mr Foreign Minister, the interests of all Austrians, the interests of all parliamentarians were invited offensively towards the construction stop – I underline: towards construction stop! – to declare, formulate and point out in your letter to the Czech Government. In reply to your question, you argue that, on the one hand, Parliamentary decisions exist and on the other hand, Minister Bartenstein and Minister Prammer have already been introduced in Prague, that you are finally also in contact with Mr Fischer, and that you – and now it will be interesting – and this is the background to the discrepancy between the five-party consensus and your attitude – insist that it is important to adhere to international or European security standards as a priority. They are working in your foreign policy advances to ensure that safety standards are the essential criterion and not what has been decided here, namely the construction stop, and not what was decided in the Upper Austrian Land Day, namely the construction stop, and not what is clearly and clearly demanded today in a resolution of the Upper Austrian Land Day, namely initiatives by the Federal Government towards alternative project and funding at EU level. Her colleague, Chief of State Pühringer, is certainly an offensive politician in the field of AKW Temelin. You, Minister Schüssel, are a very defensive foreign political representative of the security interests of Austria, according to what you said in your reply to your question. At this point I now put my finger in your wound: They state - often, repeatedly, repeatedly, in various areas - that it is primarily your mission to ensure the safety of Austria. I ask you: How do you want to ensure the safety of Austria if you do not stand for a construction stop of the Temelin nuclear power station if you do not become more offensive in Prague if you move more or less out of the affair with diplomatic formulations, with elegant formulations? In this context, I can quote a sentence: "... Austria feels entitled and obliged to take a firm stand for its interests." – This is literally your anti-temelin position in the note that you handed over or left to Prague. Why is this issue so important here and now? . You know that within the next three or four weeks the final decision will be taken on how the temelin nuclear power station will not be completed or completed. In the case of no other east nuclear power station, the chances were so favourable that construction stop would occur and alternative projects would be driven forward. There are already pre-expert reports on economics. This economic study will be open to certain concerns, and it is to be thanked for the very initiatives and very active Austrian experts that critical elements will also be included in this economic activity study. In the long term, the Temelin nuclear power station does not count. On the other hand, the decision of the Prague Government is based on a report on the foreign policy impact of the start-up of the Temelins nuclear power station, and you have contributed with your very reticent and diplomatically formulated note. That's the point where I'm saying: Fire's on the roof! Mr Minister, please do everything you can to ensure that in Austria there is no second time such a situation as with regard to the Mochovce AKW that this Federal Government does not drive Austria into a waterloo a second time, that we are not in the distance of nuclear policy, as was the case in connection with the Mochovce AKW. Now is the chance given, in the next three weeks you can still forge the iron, now you still have the opportunity to act at the political level. Please take You're true of this possibility! Go away from the general safety philosophy to a concrete 100% security philosophy! This means construction stop and means the execution or implementation of the consensus decision in a nuclear-political way, which you do not carry outside with your actions, with your diplomatic notes, which you do not implement, which you leave on the track! That's why I'm appealing to you: Understand the seriousness of the situation, and now really take concrete steps! Explorers You are within the EU through financial instruments! Put a concrete project on the table! Negotiating offensively! – Then there is a real chance that we will not experience a second mochovce 20 kilometres north of our border or 60 kilometers north of Linz. It's in your hand – you're just from Slovakia!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12514	I call Mr Cap. A speaking time of 5 minutes applies to you and the following speakers. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12536	As one who at the time prevented the commissioning of the nuclear power station I would like to point out that Zwentendorf has contributed to an insignificant difference: While the TKW Zwentendorf was planned in Austria, the nuclear power plant we are talking about today is not on Austrian territory. In preparation for my contribution to the debate, I have looked at everything that has already taken place in the field of TEC Temelin: bilateral talks, opinions, Commission meetings, government contacts, ambassador contacts, EU Council meetings, public discussions, "round tables". In all of this, essentially a particular problem has been circulated over and over again – and on this you can enter into a discussion by the Greens with your Green Federal Environment Minister Trittin, who had to recognize what it means when generations of politicians and interest groups develop pre-constitutional scenarios, develop a contractual culture from which you find it difficult to find out, by the way, what is associated with high costs. This is not going from today to tomorrow, and Mr Trittin has had to recognize it. It also makes no sense to "understand" the Austrian Foreign Minister's powers of action, which he does not have as an Austrian Foreign Minister in relation to the Temelin AKW. I think there's something important in the background: It's just a lobbyist fight. I emphasize: a lobbyist struggle! The nuclear industry hopes for retrofitting and, of course, hopes for the formula "safety standards" because this is a huge business. You can do this, of course, if you can present one or two models of retrofitting by saying: That is Western standard!, as if the Western nuclear standard were absolutely safe. The Western standard is not absolutely safe either. My personal opinion is that no nuclear power plant at all is absolutely safe. You should develop scenarios, how you can get out of this technology, and nothing else. However, this will only be possible in the long term – and there you have to be honest and admit that this is so – and therefore, I think, you have to be very careful when it comes to discussing safety standards, because you are trying to develop this safety myth as well. I therefore welcome the fact that, since autumn 1998, there has been such a thing as an Austrian-Czech energy partnership, within which alternative forms of energy can be considered, but also that these countries, which have also pursued a false energy policy over generations, which have also moved into the use of a wrong energy form, need some time – especially since they do not have the economic power that Western countries have – to get out of it. I believe that this is a very essential aspect that we must take into account. If we demand the construction stop of the Temelin nuclear power station, we need to know at the same time how the Czechs can then produce alternative energy or where they can obtain it, at cost or at prices which correspond to their current economic status and which are also feasible for them. There is a whole bunch of problems including: It is not a question to be discussed only at the level of the Foreign Ministers, but this question goes far beyond that, and of course also affects the economic prospects and feasibility of these countries, which have decided to go the way of restructuring from the former planned, communist to market economy structures – in whatever form and with whatever regulatory capacity. Against this background, I believe that this should be discussed, and one must not forget: International efforts are needed, international concepts, international alliances, in order to bring about the global exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and not just more sectoral. But, of course, Austria has limited possibilities. In international banking consortia, there may be some initiative, one may be able to take some initiative in the EU, but the EU is moving more towards security standards, because there is probably the lobby that says: Retrofitting, creating safety, but for now stick to nuclear energy! These aspects must be dealt with critically, and one must properly assess the possibilities of a country like Austria. I hope that this will also be done and that the historical advantage we have, namely that we do not have nuclear power stations, that we have said no to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, will give us a credible basis to fight for other countries to go this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12591	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Similarly, 5 minutes of speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12612	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As well as Mochovce and Bohunice, Temelin is one of the frontier nuclear power plants, of which the Austrian population is particularly threatened, although Austria has set itself the goal of pleading and lobbying internationally, i.e. across Europe and the world, for an exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Austria has done this again and again in recent years. I should like to remind you of the efforts that have been made in connection with Mochovce, which have so far not brought the success we wanted, but we hope that now, with the new government, the Dzurinda government, there is a first approach to prevent the completion of another reactor in Mochovce or to achieve a faster shutdown of the Bohunice nuclear power station. Finally, it was Austrian Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel, who, in preparation and in the exercise of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU, has put in place numerous measures aimed at setting up initiatives at European level to ensure a medium and long-term exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy. During the Austrian Presidency, the question of the exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy was also included in the negotiations on accession to the European Union. It was finally Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel, who demanded that certain criteria be established with a definition of safety standards, to ensure that no country with lower standards can join the European Union, although we all know that the definition of a safety standard is a very difficult matter, especially when it comes to the link between Western European or Western and Eastern European technologies, and the Temelin nuclear power station has such a link. Despite everything, we need to know that nuclear power plants are objects of internal affairs. This means that it is not possible for any country in the world to order the shutdown or completion of a nuclear power plant from the outside. Therefore, it is particularly important to promote awareness-building in the respective country, just as it happened in Austria during the completion of the Ztentendorf nuclear power station, because the internal resistance of a country also plays a major role. The failure of the Mochovce nuclear power station failed, not least, because there was virtually no awareness in Slovakia of the fact that the groups operating against it were too small, not effective and did not have the appropriate financial support. The same applies to the Temelin nuclear power plant, but thank God, during the transitional government of the Czech Republic, Minister of Environment Bursik, who is critical of the use of nuclear power, managed to put at least one accent in this direction. This accent has at least been taken up by the Zeman government, and in recent months there have been numerous talks by Austrian ministers Bartenstein and Prammer and the Foreign Minister Schüssel to form an energy partnership with the Czech Republic, because only alternatives can convince our partners, our neighbouring countries, that they are not completing the Temelin AKW. Finally, it is even an Austrian nuclear energy officer, Radko Pavlovec, the Upper Austrian nuclear power officer, ordered by the Upper Austrian ÖVP head of state, Pühringer, with a study, with a Least Cost study on the subject of Temelin, to achieve awareness formation and political change in the Czech Republic. It was the first political force represented in the parliament in the Czech Republic to distance itself from the completion of Temelin, the Christian Democratic Union-Czech People's Party, the KDU – ČSL. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a very important act which a Austrian has succeeded, and I believe that we must be clear that we will only succeed in finding alternatives in this way, and we are all very happy to work for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12671	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schweitzer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12692	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The colleague Moser has just got the answer to her question – one can clearly read it from the individual answers – what Austrian policy is in the matter of AKW Temelin, that is, very soft activity, a people's touch over there with velvet gloves, although the degree of threat that comes from this nuclear power station is known to all. But this gentle touch is not taken note of over there. This shows a report from the Austrian Federal Government, which lists what efforts – Mr Cap has called them – have been running for years to achieve something on this matter. However, the Czech side has mostly not responded to the Austrian efforts – that has been the case since 1993 – whether the interventions were made in person or in writing. The opinion of the Federal Government, which you, Mr Minister, have included, is certainly still known to you. It is nothing but an admission to the fact that no success has been achieved in the previous negotiations on the Temelin nuclear power station. We have not used a possibility – a possibility that we have proposed in a liberal way; it has been rejected in this House – namely the link between the exit from the peaceful use of nuclear power and the opening of negotiations on accession to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is the only language that the Czech negotiators understand by junctifying these two things. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Why this possibility has not been considered by the majority in this House, you must explain to the Austrians, who, of course, feel threatened by this nuclear power plant at the border. There is a second possibility – Mrs Rauch-Kallat has mentioned this possibility –: There is an economic comparison by Mr Pavlovec between the completion of the Temelin nuclear power station and alternatives. One possibility would be for example the realization of a replacement programme for electric direct heating. If this replacement program were realized, you could give up the Ans-Net-gehen of the Temelin power plant. This could save more than this power plant would produce in energy. Foreign Minister! It is now up to you to raise appropriate financial resources at EU level to finance the implementation of this replacement programme. If these funds were available, then I can imagine that there would be a completely new basis for negotiations with colleagues in the Czech Republic. Federal Minister! I expect you to make a clear statement today on the implementation of this replacement programme and on its financing, so that the Austrian population can be clearly and clearly referred to as the opportunities for the commissioning of Temelins.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12747	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12769	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A junk between the EU's accession to the Central and Eastern European countries – no, I would like to take a political position on this – and we did not represent the exit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy from the Liberals, because it would simply be unfair if the use of nuclear power plants in the European Union were to be banned from the Eastern European states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] In addition, the accession of the Central and Eastern European States is more important from the political point of view than to do so on the junkim with a single question, although the threat is great both for the people living there and for us. Because it's true: If there is no accession, then the chance of an exit will be taken far more far than it would be possible to do when it comes to accession. On the basis of this assessment, we believe that such a junkim cannot be a target. But it has also irritated me today that the conversation initiated by Mrs Prammer in order to inform you of the progress made on these issues has been cancelled – apparently because there is nothing new. It was Mrs Rauch-Kallat who rightly pointed out today that education of consciousness in this context is an important fact not only in the Central and Eastern European countries, but also in us. However, I still remember very clearly that it did not contribute precisely to the awareness that the EIA MEPs to the European Parliament had rejected the amendment of the Euratom Treaty, a founding treaty of the European Union, which had cast the change in the vote with their votes, which could have meant that the development of a powerful nuclear energy would no longer have been the goal of the European Union. This would have been an important signal, especially to the Eastern and Central European countries. This signal, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, has only been destroyed by the concrete voting behaviour. It was about these seven votes in the European Parliament, with the exception of Mrs Agnes Schierhuber, who abstained from the vote, who could have changed the Euratom Treaty. That is why the scepticism is understandable in the context of the question asked by Mrs Moser today. It is understandable that, if an Austrian coalition party prevents these questions from being resolved at European level, as in this very specific case, it is lacking in confidence that the Foreign Minister, who also belongs to this group and thinks in this direction, who, in essential areas, presents the facts in substance, is behind these concerns with the necessary vehemence. That is exactly what we note here from the Liberals, because as important as the safety standards are, you can't deny that the exit is more important than a change or an increase in safety standards. The aim must be to get out of the way and not just to merge Western and Eastern technology, to the benefit of those Western industries which have done us nothing good in this area. Therefore, it is still necessary to maintain the requirement that this should be an exit. We are convinced that there have been initiatives by the government – I would just like to get such notes in copy. For if I look at the supplement to the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant by the Austrian government – thank you also for the parliamentary fractions – I have to say that the wording that has been chosen in it is very, very soft. I do not understand now that this is a hard or unfriendly formulation, but it is simply a formulation that makes it clear that this objective of the exit, a nuclear-free central Europe, is an important objective for Austria. But that doesn't come out of it. I would be interested in what concrete proposals have been made, which have been made to the Czech Republic, and in particular whether there is a willingness to cooperate at official or even unofficial level. Ladies and gentlemen! Last point: The exit is easier for the Central and Eastern European countries than for the current European Union countries, because the energy efficiency – Mr Cap has mentioned this – has said that for years we have gone in the wrong direction, which is also true – in the Central and Eastern European countries is so bad that it would not be a problem, even thousands – most! – bring in megawatts in capacity simply by means of efficiency-enhancing measures. It would be unnecessary to put 600 megawatt capacities into operation in nuclear power plants. This means that there are possibilities, but the creativity and determination with which the Austrian Federal Government appears to offer such offers are not sufficient and we ask them to be increased. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12837	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Petrovic. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12858	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The answer to the question reflects in a relatively short form what I believe is a complete change in the former Austrian anti-CFC policy. The so-called security policy, i.e. the attempt to increase nuclear safety standards in the reform states, is the exact opposite of an anti-atomic policy and no supplement. To that end, I do not think it appropriate not to have the political openness to admit that this is a completely different line and does not correspond to Parliament's orders. For a genuine anti-CFC policy gives rise to other conclusions, which were then listed in a joint motion for a resolution of all the parliamentary parties. I do not think so much that the issue of the junkim is ultimately raised, but very probably the question of Austria's clearly expressed request: We want the exit, we don't want a safer Temelin nuclear power station, but we don't want Temelin. This means, however, in policy, that in particular, the demands to today's EU Member States should be more clearly formulated. Also because some companies continue to earn very, very good criticism in the dangerous business of nuclear power plants. It is also necessary to work with such large companies and names as Siemens or Framatom, one has to insist on what an dishonesty it is, if one is constantly pointing to these unquestionably safe nuclear power plants in the reform states, but on the other hand does everything to ensure that billions continue to be invested there. What happens then is obvious: It is quite clear that in our system of market economy – with the ÖVP in particular always very strong in favour of extending it very quickly and as little social and environmental as possible also to the reform states – in this system of no longer social, no longer ecological market economy requires billions of investment in time. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Just sayings, nothing but sayings!]] Mr Maitz! This policy means that with the help of our Federal Government, the use of nuclear energy in Europe will be extended; the use of an energy which, in fact, could no longer be maintained under market conditions! And this is due only to the behaviour of the states that have invested in research, in the expansion of works and which have then, in the end, also come into the question of the transports and storage of radiant material, although – like Germany in connection with the castor transports – they have been lied down, dizzyed and lost. That was the "partnership" with these industries. Thus, they have ultimately "rewarded" the politicians their political support. This energy form is a dead end, a clear dead end. There is a single safe nuclear power plant in the world, and that's in Zwentendorf. It is thanks to the Austrian population that it is so safe. This kind of security policy also needs the reform states, and the people in the reform states deserved it too! It would also be more economic if we were finally really to act on the market and not to keep the states in the nuclear industry in the hands of money. This alternative policy, that is to say, to give the vote only to increase alternatives to invest exclusively in renewable energies and, if necessary, to block decisions within the EU if these Austrian security policies and security interests are violated, is anti-CFC policy, but unfortunately you have left them.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12900	It has now referred to Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12921	Mr President. High house! Firstly, on the question of whether there is a change in Austrian anti-atomic policy. The answer is clear and clear: no. We have an Austrian consensus between the five parliamentary parties and the entire federal government for an exit from nuclear energy, not only in Austria, where we have gone through it, but also in other parts of Europe. We have this consensus, but that consensus doesn't have others. To a consensus belongs that not only does one believe that he has a consensus, but that all others also share it. I can therefore say this all the easier and perhaps even more credible than I did at a time when this was at least connected to some risks for me – I was the Secretary General of the Economic Union at that time, and at that time the line of my organization on this subject was still a little different – for the exit from nuclear energy. At that time it was a little less simple than it is today in the safe port of the Austrian National Council in a five-party consensus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Ah! You were a dissident!]] The answer is clear: There is no change, Mrs Petrovic, no deviation from consensus, from an earlier line of the Federal Government and Parliament. We still want the exit from nuclear energy. Mr Cap has pointed out very wisely in his comments, as I think, that it is not so easy to incite these political beliefs to others, and that in this context There is a need for new-elected governments to be involved. For example, if you follow, like the German Greens, colleague Fischer and colleague Trittin, try to convert your personal conviction – I don't mean that now ironically – into a daily policy practice, you can see that this is not as easy as we sometimes imagine when we believe: We take a five-party resolution, send the Austrian ministers in all directions to Europe, and then it will work. – It’s not that simple! We have no consensus in this regard within the European Union. There are some countries which do not have nuclear power plants from the outset, there are other countries, such as Sweden or Germany, which are now trying painfully to discuss an exit, and we all see that this is not so easy. I am just from Slovakia – Mrs Moser has thankfully mentioned it. A colleague of the "Press" has accompanied me there, perhaps even more objective than I can do, to report here if he has the right to speak. I have just drawn the attention of the new Slovak Government, in the sense of the Austrian consensus, to the fact that we want a ban on Bohunice as soon as possible. It is equally honest to say here that for the new Slovak government, which is currently trying to stabilise the rule of law, to bring a somewhat balanced budget with a four-party coalition by Parliament and to cope with the intelligence activities and the shadows of the past of the Mečiar heritage, it is not that easy. They cannot simply say yes or no, but they must enforce these things internally in the form of a consensus. All Austrian ministers – and this has only been shortened in the response to the question, I would like to admit – all Austrian government members, both the Federal Chancellor and I as Foreign Minister and Mrs Prammer, who is primarily responsible for this, but also Mr Bartenstein, are on the road in this direction both in the Czech Republic and in the Slovak Republic. To the alternative offers that constantly course: I have been in the Federal Government for ten years and have experienced the historic negotiations, when we – Vrannitzky and I – have presented exactly what Mrs Moser calls for today. We have offered very precise grants - bilaterally by the way -, conversion programmes, upgrade programmes and highlighted efficiency, a gentle, improved use of energy as the most efficient form of energy source, the energy source in these reform countries. It didn't use anything! Nevertheless, the old nuclear power plants that represent huge safety risks have been continued – I refuse to address these issues. There is no question that the issue of security and the issue of exit must be addressed. It didn't use anything. These unsafe nuclear power plants have often been operated on for many years as necessary. Bohunice, for example, is still on the net, contrary to the commitments made by previous governments. It has also done nothing to prevent the loan for Mochovce within the EBRD. The only effect was – therefore, one must also think about whether this strategy was actually the absolute "winner" – that we hear today as an argument: The financing requirements have changed, so not only Mochovce is being completed, but Bohunice also stays on the network for longer, because the whole is now a bit more expensive than before. Ask colleagues how my response to these statements was public. I was more than clear on this point, and there was no more talk of diplomatic floskels. But I also say very clearly: Junkims don't make sense. To demand something as a condition for the start of discussions, which is not even common within the European Union, is, in my view, not only absurd – that is not carried by the other 14 countries – but would even be absolutely counterproductive. In the end, it will also be at the end of the negotiations. The negotiations can only demand something that is the Union's rule of play and not what is the rule of play in Austria. If Slovakia joined a Union alone with Austria, all of this could be made conditional. But if you join the European Union, you can only make what the common rules of play are for this Union. You can be sure, however, ladies and gentlemen, that we will benefit from the opportunity that God has given us with the new Minister for the Environment in the Czech Republic. However, he has already experienced severe resistance from the other ministers, such as the Minister of Economic Affairs, and from the economic combinations responsible for it. We will do everything we can to support Bursik and give him arguments. I hope that the Czech Government will take a more flexible attitude in a few days or weeks than it did earlier governments. But I can't promise you any more than that we will all work with our whole heart and 100% for this common concern. In this sense, please also appreciate the answer to the question. It is, of course, shortened because obviously not all the efforts we have made in all these years have been recorded. But some speakers have rightly pointed out that a great deal has already been done here. In fact, we are supported by the Germans within the Union, and I would also say that part of the German government is full of heart and another part is at least halfhearted. But that alone is not enough for an EU consensus. I therefore believe that the way Mary Rauch-Kallat suggested not only to work at diplomatic and government level, but also to influence democratic opinion within the political parties in the Czech Republic and Slovakia in the direction that the exit is the goal and not only the safety of being very reasonable.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12975	Thank you, Minister of State. There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12999	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 1 to 4. Mr Gredler, before interrupting this debate, has reported an actual correction. I now give the floor to her. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13030	Mr President. I really wanted to correct Mr Holger Bauer's statement, because I do not think it was a post-prandial weakness. Mr Bauer has said: the Members of the Left Forum, and has interpreted us. I note that my group is called "Liberales Forum". On the other hand, I am quite right for Mr Bauer to say that there is a lot of room on the left of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13060	Mr Dr. Schwimmer spoke with a voluntary speaking time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13081	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before the interruption, Mr Wabl has tabled a motion for a resolution which was formally withdrawn in the meantime, not because the request had been withdrawn, but because, and I would like to expressly thank Mr Wabl for this, the basis of the motion for a resolution could now be extended. A misunderstanding was also avoided in the wording. The initiative taken by Mr Wabl – it should not be kept silent that it was his initiative – is correct. The abolition of the death penalty is not a Causa Öcalan, but the abolition of the death penalty must be a general requirement, must be an object of general policy. The death penalty should not only be abolished in one country, but it should be abolished wherever it is applied today, in the US as well as in European countries where it has unfortunately not been abolished. It is a pleasure that 1998 was the first year of execution in Europe since the immediate post-war years thanks to the Council of Europe's activities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true that everywhere there is the death penalty, Austria is committed to abolishing the death penalty. As far as the Causa Öcalan is concerned, I expect Turkey to be a democratic state, a member country of the Council of Europe and, as a signatory state to the European Convention on Human Rights, that the procedure be dealt with in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, in accordance with the existing Turkish laws. This means, for me, that even for an accused chief of a terrorist organisation, the presumption of innocence in the proceedings must be that his personal, physical and mental integrity must be protected and that a fair process and the possibilities of full defence be offered to him. This is a matter of course that we can expect. Terrorism must be clearly and clearly rejected, condemned. To return to the death penalty again: The rule of law must never and never put itself on a level with those who violate its standards. Neither terrorism nor other criminal activities is the death penalty the adequate response of the rule of law. The rule of law must and can be used by other means. The death penalty cannot be the rule of law's answer. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution in accordance with the original initiator: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased if, on the basis of this joint motion for a resolution, which is based on a broad basis, the Austrian National Council's decision in accordance with this is a clear appeal to abolish the death penalty. I can do this all the more credible than in my capacity as rapporteur for Turkey in the Council of Europe Parliament before the Causa Öcalan in a report to the Assembly on 25 February. Januaryen has appealed to Turkey to abolish the death penalty, which has not been executed there for 15 years – and that must also be said – legally. There are good conditions for this, this is a promising appeal, because – and this is not to be kept silent – in the Turkish Parliament, in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, there is already the draft new criminal law which provides for the abolition of the death penalty. This is a draft prepared by the Turkish Government's Human Rights Commission and transmitted to Parliament by the previous Government, the Yılmaz Government. In this way, Turkey should continue, and we would like to encourage Turkey to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13162	The motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mr Dr. Schwimmer, is sufficiently supported and will be discussed. The next item is the speech by Mr Lammer at a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13186	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to turn to the other issues, which are also on the agenda, which are very important to me, namely the 1997 security report, although outdated, the particularly important watchman assistance law and our request on the problems of tourism in Austria. Mr Schwamlein, in his contribution to the debate, said that the amendment tabled by me was cheap and polemic, so I would like to say that I trust him that as a teacher he may understand a lot, but he knows almost nothing about the executive, because otherwise he would also have to know the content of this watchman's aid law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Civil Service Assistance Act has been created to enable financial compensation to be paid in the event of death or serious injury to an official if the financial situation of the official or the survivors is not good. In reality, however, access to this aid is hardly possible. I would like to show you this on a number of examples. For example, a police officer in Vienna was unable to serve for 24 days, he was severely damaged, and then when he wanted to make the demands for the Warrants' Aid Act, he was told that the perpetrator was inaccurate and that there was no claim. In another case, it was the same. One could certainly list some cases and examples, but unfortunately time is not enough. I therefore tabled an amendment which essentially contains the following three points: Firstly, the amount should be increased from 1.5 million to 3 million. Secondly, we should finally include the claims for pain. And thirdly, we should stand by the official by referring to a legal claim for the official. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are behind the executives, you will also understand what is meant by that, and I hope that you will give this request your consent. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to make a motion for a resolution on more restrictive measures to combat towling. The 1997 safety report shows that in 1997 1 741 tractors were detected throughout the country and 11 432 persons were picked up. At that time it was said that the number of tractors and toweds will increase, the situation will worsen. If you look at the 1999 figures, you can see the actual extent. I had the opportunity to talk to officials on the border with Slovenia two days ago, i.e. on Tuesday morning, and I learned that in Slovenia there are about 6,000 refugees waiting, who want to go across the green border to Austria and then partly to Germany. There is the agreement with the tractors that they try it so often until they actually reach their destination country. In the last month, some 25 and 56 illegals have been seized in this part. You can imagine what that means. Above all, these illegals always form bridge heads for other fields of activity such as organized crime, drug trafficking, property crimes and the like. "News" of 15.10.1998, it was noted that the border organs capture two hauls on average every hour. This can already be seen from what extent this has already taken. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is because, among other things, it is also stated in the foreign law in Sections 104 and 105 that towing is, on the one hand, an administrative violation and, on the other hand, a criminal offence. In view of the fact that tractors carry out these activities, which, as we have already said today, bring a financial deal for the tractors, and exploit it to an ever larger business, the opinion that this request is necessary, and I therefore ask you to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13345	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We do not have the rapporteur's final word. Before the vote, I note that the two requests made by Mr Lammer have been properly put in place, have been duly supported and have therefore been negotiated. So we are entering the voting procedure now, and I ask you to take the places. We shall first vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the international peace conference to resolve the Kurdish question. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schieder, Mr Schwimmer, Mr Kier, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the death penalty. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This request has been adopted unanimously. (E 163.) The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is now voting on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of the 1997 safety report, III-156 of the supplements. If you would like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades on the non-enforcement of pushy young people. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Lammer and Mr Comrades on more restrictive measures to combat towling. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1591 of the supplements. Mr Lammer and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment and an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Laiber and Comrades have submitted an additional request to refer to Section 9 para. 1 Z 1, 9 para. 2 and 4 and an amendment to paragraph 10 and 14 para. 3 refers. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. I now leave the amendment tabled by Mr Lammer and Mr Comrades on Z 2 § 7 para. 1 vote and seek a corresponding sign if you want to agree. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are therefore now voting on these parts of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft law a third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note: The draft law was adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1601 report. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1420 of the Supplements): Cooperation Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the French Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Portuguese Republic, the Greek Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Contracting Parties to the Schengen Agreement and the Schengen Convention and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the reduction of checks on persons at the common borders and declarations and attachments (1592) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1421 of the Supplements): Protocol amending Articles 40, 41 and 65 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Convention of 14. ==References== June 1990 in Schengen (1593) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1422 of the Supplements): Protocol on the Accession of the Government of the Republic of Finland to the Convention on the gradual reduction of controls at the common borders, which was signed on 14 December 1989. It was signed in Schengen on June 15, 1985, together with the statement and annex (1594) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1423 of the Supplements): Convention on the Accession of the Republic of Finland to the Republic of Finland on 19 June. Agreements on the implementation of the Schengen Convention signed in Schengen on 14 June 1990 June 1985 on the gradual reduction of controls at the common borders, including Final Act, Declarations and Annex (1595 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1424 of the Supplements): Protocol on the Accession of the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark to the Convention on the gradual reduction of controls at the common borders, which was signed on 14 December 1989. It was signed in Schengen on June 15, 1985, together with the statement and annex (1596 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1425 of the Supplements): Convention on the Accession of the Kingdom of Denmark to the Convention on 19 November. Agreements on the implementation of the Schengen Convention signed in Schengen on 14 June 1990 June 1985 on the gradual reduction of controls at the common borders, including Final Act, Declarations and Annex (1597 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1426 of the Supplements): Convention on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the Convention on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden. Agreements on the implementation of the Schengen Convention signed in Schengen on 14 June 1990 June 1985 on the gradual reduction of controls at the common borders, including Final Act, Declarations and Annex (1598 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1427 of the Supplements): Protocol on the Accession of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden to the Convention on the gradual reduction of controls at the common borders, which was signed on 14 December 1989. It was signed in Schengen on June 15, 1985, together with the statement and annex (1599 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13590	We now come to points 5 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13620	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing changes to the laws that were needed by the Schengen Agreement, and of course this is also an opportunity to talk about the Schengen Treaty as a whole. But there is also the opportunity to point out once again that before the conclusion of the Schengen Treaty, we have already referred to the dangers associated with it. We were against it for serious reasons. We have shown how dangerous it can be if, for example, illegals enter the EU territory in Greece and then continue unhindered until, for example, Sweden, without being controlled at any time. We have also pointed out that the implementation of the Schengen Treaty can only work if the external borders are really well secured. They have always destroyed the dangers, have said that all our fears have only been built up once again, but now the reality has caught us! Mr Minister, you will have to admit this because important countries such as Italy, for example, are not able or unwilling to comply with their obligations under the Schengen Treaty. Italy is open like the famous barn gate: Every day, we have collected newspaper reports, 600 illegals enter an island in front of Italy and continue to penetrate the EU area. In addition, the questionable asylum policy of Italy and its questionable policy on immigration at all: The Italians go every year and say: The person who is now illegal in the country is now legally in the country. – In this way, 250 000 illegal residence permits have only recently been issued. This has an impact not only on Austria but also on the entire EU area. That is why, Minister, we urge you at every opportunity to work in Brussels to ensure that this policy of Italy is not approved because the impact on Europe as a whole is noticeable. We have felt these effects of the open borders, but also in Austria, because we have recorded an increase in the number of illegal immigrants by 26 percent – this is reflected in the security report. The tow has become the most lucrative branch of organised crime. In 1998, 13 000 illegal border workers were attacked. And the main route of the drug or drug market is also across the borders of Hungary, Yugoslavia and so on, where we have to secure the external border. Despite the increase in illegality, however, you are pleased, Minister. They say: Our border control is efficient, and we have managed to create open borders with Germany and Italy without creating a security deficit on the other hand. I now quote from the magazine "GÖD", in which you can read: With this assessment, however, the head of the department should be quite alone, because not only the executive officers directly concerned do not see the situation as distinctly different, but also the Director-General for Public Security, who said that migration pressure is quite simply no longer to endure. - Quote. And indeed, Minister: In Lower Austria the borders are as open as in Italy. 20 officials arrive at 100 kilometres. There is no federal army in use there, and in addition you have also shortened the overtime. This means that the illegal immigrant can move there as he would like. In this context, a senior official, the chairman of the Lower Austrian General Army Union, also says: Only 10 to 20 percent of the illegals we catch, most of them walk more or less unhindered into the country! And he asks the parliamentarians in an impassioned letter for their help. Minister! Unfortunately, it forbids me from speaking time to hold you even more. However, I believe that it is very urgent that Austria should first secure its own borders and, secondly, in Europe, ensure that the neighbouring countries fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13682	Mr Kiermaier has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13704	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's right: Agenda items 5 to 12 offer the opportunity to deal with the issue of Schengen as a whole, and of course – how can it be different – our opinion in this regard is somewhat different from that of my previous speaker. I have to say that very clearly. I believe that excellent performance is being offered here in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (an issue of the magazine "GÖD" to the highest level and to the Federal Minister Mag. You know this, Mr. Minister? That's not mine! That's what a senior executive says!]] If you present this paper here, you'll give the opinion of an editor. But you cannot say that is the opinion of all! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Kiss will also say that we are in a good...! We already know that!]] You didn't hire them, nor did the editor – only so that it's equally clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, newspapers are often patient! You can't convince me with that. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the performance of the border army is excellent in this area. 1 460 kilometers long is the border, and only 1 259 kilometers of it fall to the east border. 6 000 staff are serving there – and they are doing very good work, I would like to make this clear: 3 000 staff in the framework of the Border services of the Bundesgendarmerie, 2 000 German army soldiers, 200 federal politicians at airports and the Danube and 800 customs guards. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of our country's citizens are not aware that these officials not only have the task of stopping illegal immigrants, but also that their main task is, among other things, to support all police arrest measures, both at international and national level, when it comes to cross-border crime, towing, trafficking in human beings, the movement of cars, illegal transport and trafficking in addictions, weapons of all kinds and so on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The total investment in this task was at least proud of 3 billion schilling. That's a lot of money. In the framework of the establishment of the border service of the Federal Armed Forces, 70 new services were opened: 39 border control posts and 31 border control points. All of this is not very little, ladies and gentlemen. It must also be said that a number of things are being done at the green border. Heat imagery and night vision devices are used to monitor and prevent illegal border crossing, as well as new aircraft and so on. So there are ongoing initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! The police compensation measures are not exactly bad either, they have also been extended to Germany and Italy. Unfortunately, the speaking time is not enough to deal with this matter more closely. However, it is absolutely clear that our country has gained a great deal of security through the Schengen Information System, in my opinion, not only overall, but above all in its own country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] In considering Europe's entire security policy, this part is certainly very, very important. I think that Europe's internal security is of great importance. I do not want to devalue military security in any way, but I believe that Europe's internal security is very, very important. But I do not want to give a brief opinion here to the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year we were within the framework of the National Defence Committee on the Hungarian border, and I can tell you that I was thrilled by the way our young basic defence servants stand on this task. It was great. I talked to them – I don't have so much speaking time, Mr Brigadier – and the comments of these young groundmen were positive. [[Abg. Young: Did you see that... in Austria?]] They were convinced of their task, they liked to do it. The weather was miserable at the time, but they were in the best mood. I think you were with, didn't you? [[The speaker turns to Abg. May. Steindl]] It was a really beautiful thing, and I was thrilled by the way in which the basic defense servants went about this task. On this occasion, I would like to thank everyone involved once again, especially the one - if you like - "Father of the Border Army", my friend Brigadier Oskar Strohmeyer, who has done really great work. I would like to say a warm thank you to all the officials of the Ministries, but above all to you, Mr Minister, for working with such a great Elan on this subject. If the editor quoted by my predecessor believes that the minister is alone in his view, he is mistaken: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A black editor!]] He himself is alone in his view! The Minister and all those involved in this field are doing excellent work in the interests of our people! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13815	Mr Laber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13837	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kiermaier! It is not an editor who was previously quoted from the magazine "GÖD", but the president of the Christian Trade Unionist Group, Franz Haydter – colleague Kiss will know him –: He is a faithful ÖVP servant, and the demands he has made are justified. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, that's it! Who listens now...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Will Mr. Kiermaier know him?]] Dear Pauli, you will know what he has said to you or to you about the actual situation in Lower Austria. First: It is true that the Schengen Agreement also has its good sides – I do not even want to doubt that – but there are also bad pages. Secondly, As regards the excellent performance described here by Mr Kiermaier, it must be said: It is not the policy that has worked very well there, but it is the very dedicated and highly motivated officials who have enabled this success for Austria and for the people. You have to see that! It is true that the Minister of State has actually invested a lot of money in the border army or in the border service, that there are also technical possibilities there, so that there can be success here, but on the other hand the situation in the country must also be seen that, at the same time, the Gendarmerie Posts and the police have been starved that these technical possibilities are not available there and that there are too few staff to maintain public peace, order and security. [[Call the SPÖ:Go!]] Federal Minister! They are therefore invited not only to secure borders, not only to respect the Schengen Agreement, but also to support my colleagues in the country in such a way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point on the cost: It is enough and a lot of money flown to the borders, which we also feel is right, because we don't want to have any tugs or tows. But still: A maximum of a quarter of these people can be picked up – my colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé has already pointed out that the chairman of the Lower Austrian General Army Union even speaks of only 10 to 12 percent – and the others still come illegally to Austria. [[Abg. Kiss: How do you know if there are no numbers? I don't understand!]] I have already said in my previous debate that 6 000 Kosovo Albanians are waiting in Slovenia. Even if they are picked up and returned across the border, they try again the next day. [[Abg. Kiss: If there are no numbers, it is illogical to say something like this!]] Federal Minister! The problem that arises here, especially in the Schengen area – dear Pauli Kiss, you only need to look across the border once, then you know what is being played there – is because when the illegal, when he comes across the border, throws away his documents, so that the third-country clause no longer contributes to a solution, for if he claims that he does not know where he comes from, then it is no longer comprehensible, and he is to be kept. [[Abg. Kiss: Your argument is illogical! That's illogical!]] This problem will still be of great concern to us in our inner security. There is, of course, also a rise in crime in the border regions due to the tow activity and the presence of the towed ones. It would therefore be the only solution for Austria from the point of view of the liberals to suspend the Schengen Agreement for the time being, and first of all to equip our executives here in Austria, in the interior, with technical means and also with personnel to ensure security for Austria and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13945	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of reports have already been made on the Schengen Agreement and the Scandinavian countries that have decided to accede to the Schengen Agreement. In concrete terms, these were Sweden, Finland and Denmark, while Norway and Iceland had to develop cooperation models because they were not members. Thus, it is only Britain and Ireland that have not yet joined the Schengen Agreement. Mrs Partik-Pablé! We know that Europe grants freedom to the citizens of Europe. In addition to the free movement of money and goods, there is also freedom of travel within the European countries, which we are proud of and which we are looking forward to, Mrs Madl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl]] Although you may not have been driving to other EU countries so far, They will eventually experience that it is certainly pleasant to have free borders in a common Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: It doesn't matter to me,...!]] The important point, however, Mrs Madl, is that the Schengen Agreement has enabled greater cooperation between the executives across national borders, and this information system can now also be extended to Scandinavia with these government templates. One of the most important objectives of this international cooperation, of course, is – some of my previous speakers have already pointed out – to be the master of organised and international crime. "The crime analyses" - I quote from the security report - "many Western European states are not very pleased", and the future forecasts of the international organized crime are actually gloomy. Our 1997 security report also addresses this and mentions that international organised crime poses a threat to society. The main offences in this area are towing, human trafficking, economic crime, the area of addiction crime, tolls at risk of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to see this, and we have to respond to it, and the Schengen Agreement gives us the opportunity to fight organised crime internationally! Only some data: 8 million records are listed in the Schengen system – 8 million, ladies and gentlemen! – and 83,000 of them come from Austria. That means that the system works quite well, and we have great successes. There were 760 hits – that might be interesting too – abroad for Austrian tenders. Of course, this Schengen system is further developed. And I would already like to underline the demand of Lower Austria, since Lower Austria still has no shelter for displaced persons. Federal Minister! There must be something to be done in this regard! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also necessary for Austrian security to take out the possibility. Tracking teams, such as they did in the search for the Amoklaufer Kleinschuster, because the data in the computer was one week old, should no longer be available. I think we agree that this must be changed. The Italians have also been quoted, and I am sure that I am your opinion, Mrs Partik-Pablé: It cannot be said that the Italian Government is simply making a general penalty in the event of permanent violations of laws which it is not going to pass, as was the case for example in the case of illegal immigration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the Schengen Agreement can only work if everyone adheres to it, and in this context Italy in particular is required. We have secured our external borders and also our internal borders accordingly, and the border arms working there do their best, including the customs guards and the Federal Police. Also the German army assistance at the external border, at the Hungarian border, works very well. In view of the tragedy in Galtür and in other places, I would like to stress at this point that the forces of the armed forces, that executives, firearms and federal forces have done excellent things – in a very extreme situation, ladies and gentlemen, under the greatest pressure and in extreme danger! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Technical equipment was used by civilian forces, but also by the Federal Army, and neighboring countries, such as Germany, and the USA, were also asked for help and brought stationed aircraft from the United States, and the cooperation of international assistants, who also provided NATO aircraft, has proved to be very successful. Ladies and gentlemen! NATO has provided us with equipment and troops to cope with this disaster. I do not understand, therefore, that NATO is not authorised to pass through Austria, that NATO is not granted an over-flight permit. There are incomprehensible, ideologically well-founded attitudes of the socialists. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Unlike you! There is no ideology with you, only expertise!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Party! It should take one step over this original rock ideology and see that it is necessary for the safety of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Mertel! Even if you don't believe it yet: It is the time when you too will become insidious. In this context, I would like to quote the editor Scheidl, who said in the press in his article, which Paul Kiss has already quoted in part, that: In the event of disasters, we have always shown ourselves flexible and approachable. The NATO transport machines were allowed to rush to our aid right away. They could have been denied approval. So it was only a few days ago when it was about the practice of the same NATO. There it was the Chancellor's Office, which blocked itself against a transport through our beautiful, neutral country. The SPÖ Federal Chancellor will certainly also come up with a suitable answer, Mrs. Mertel – not for nothing you are a real maker and a real Austrian! You have to start thinking about it. - As far as the quote is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Negotiating today is also another protocol to amend the Schengen Implementing Convention, which allows for the simplification of the name change of the competent authorities in the Member States. In the interests of internal security of Europe and its citizens, in the sense of closer cooperation between the members of the Union, the EIA will be happy to give its approval to the proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14051	Mr Jung is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14072	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I still have good speeches in the ears where the benefits of joining the Schengen Agreement, even the urgent need for accession to the Schengen Agreement, have been addressed to us. One cannot escape the open borders as much as the hard future currency, the euro, has said. With regard to the hard euro, within a few weeks we have experienced 5 per cent downgrading against the dollar, and the open borders ensure above all the free movement of criminals in the internal market and the widespread freedom of movement for the illegals. – This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the Schengen Agreement, which is now to be expanded, I would just like to mention two points: the question of asylum seekers and the question of refugees, as well as the example of Öcalan. De facto today has every illegal who is once in the Schengen country, an almost unimpeded freedom of movement, and Italy is so far with the naturalization that today people are already being measured after thousands of people, who will soon again be able to live in Italy and thus also the possibility of coming to Austria, Germany or elsewhere. You can move freely, and where people go you can imagine: They will go where there are the highest social benefits or the best ways to do, in part, illegal business. However, this failure of the Schengen Agreement is even more apparent in the case of Öcalan. I am now quoting a few points from Article 18, from the objectives of the Schengen Agreement: drawing up police cooperation agreements to prevent crime; examination of agreements in order to prevent difficulties in extradition; Search for common crime fighting options and improve communication. Minister! What about the agreements on the prevention of crime and detention in the field of international terrorism? Where are the legal aid agreements to avoid extradition difficulties? In my knowledge, Mr Öcalan had an international arrest warrant from the Federal Republic of Germany. Where were the problems? Or are such arrest warrants in the Schengen area delivered with a twinkling of eyes, depending on the opinion that they are withdrawn? – This question is clear here. What about the search for common means of combating crime? How did communication work in the Öcalan case, I ask you. Mr Öcalan was able to leave Italy without the other countries knowing where to go. Is Italy not an EU country? If Italy is not a Schengen member, has it not signed? What about the common security policy? Or Greece. For days a wanted terrorist was under the supervision of the Greek state, and none of the EU partners learned that no Schengen country was informed! The Schengen Agreement can only work if everyone adheres to it, a colleague from the EIA, Mr Murauer, has previously established. But many don't stick to it, so it doesn't work! That is why we will certainly not agree to the extension of this agreement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No one's heard about it. The Greek government did not find it worth informing Austria, where the Greek President was visiting the State, that a de facto transfer to the Turks was being and was about to take place. Is this the way of dealing with contractual partners, ladies and gentlemen? I don't want to talk about "friends" in this regard. And what are the consequences? Where is the pressure on Italy? Where is the pressure on Greece? Where are the joint measures – including on the asylum issue and the issue of the division of asylum seekers? Where is European solidarity? – We see solidarity only when it comes to paying for our contributions as net payers. When it comes to other areas, solidarity does not matter to everyone. Everyone is the next there, we are left and we have to co-finance the others. We can do nothing about this EU, ladies and gentlemen, and this Schengen Agreement!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14138	Mr Moser is also on the floor. Time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14159	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to give up this European integration, Mr Jung, on this Europe, because I believe that this European integration, which is a dynamic process, means that this European Union, which is a dynamic process, ultimately brings more benefits than disadvantages to all our citizens, Europeans, our people and the continent. [[Abg. Young: "This" I said, not "the"!]] It is true that in this way, too, those people who are entering a country illegally, within this Schengen country, also have freedom of movement between the states of the European Union, but in general, the European Union means freedom, freedom of movement and, in the final consequence, peaceful living together. That is why we should also be worth this European integration. I welcome the fact that the Member States of the European Union are now also joining the Schengen Agreement in Sweden, Finland and Denmark. I welcome the fact that there is a cooperation agreement between the European Union and those countries in northern Europe, namely Iceland and Norway, which are not yet members of the European Union, that these contents, which are laid down and laid down in the Schengen Agreement, are also applied to these countries. I welcome the fact that we Liberals welcome this, and we expect, Minister of State, that the necessary implementing provisions will be adopted very quickly. It makes sense, on the one hand, to reduce internal borders and thus guarantee freedom of passenger transport and on the other hand to establish a corresponding security at the external borders of the EU. As we as an EU country have a very long external border, we are naturally required, and it is therefore important to build up the Austrian border army and high priority; we have already been able to talk about it in the debate on the security report. I also believe that the establishment of the border army was an excellent organisational achievement, but it must be said critically that it was started too late. [[Abg. Leikam: But get ready in time!]] It was known, Mr Leikam, that we will be a member of the European Union from 1995 onwards, it was known that we have the opportunity to join the Schengen Agreement, and it would have been this federal government and the socialist ministers of the interior would have been required to take the necessary measures at an early stage in order to have the border army available on a timely and sufficient scale. This Schengen Agreement also, of course, allows us to combat organised crime in an international context, to achieve cooperation between the police departments, and this is a priority for the development of the relevant information systems. But I would also ask the Federal Minister to ensure that, when the information systems are extended, there is no wild growth in the area of these systems. We have the Schengen Information System, and it is known that a draft Convention for a European Information System is to be held, consulted or decided. This draft dates back to 1995, which corresponds to the purpose and content of the Schengen Information System, and we also have an information system related to Europol. We believe that it is necessary, for cost reasons, but also to ensure rapid and efficient information, and to ensure that there is a single, sustainable information system. And something else will be important, Mr Federal Minister - we have already mentioned it in the area of the debate on the establishment of the Schengen Information System - that we should not forget that measures are necessary to improve data protection at European level and, above all, to allow the citizens of the European Union to act against abuse, and that the European Court of Justice has the same competence. Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome the completion of the Schengen country. We are pleased that the countries of northern Europe – Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland and Norway – are now also members of the Schengen Agreement, and we are pleased to be able to take another step towards European integration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14208	Mrs Parfuss has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14229	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ delegates have again, in common manner, outlined a scenario of masses of illegal immigrants, and they accuse the government of closing their eyes to this problem. That must not be contradicted. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs Deputies! Read the trade union newspaper "GÖD"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I would rather not say anything to the ÖVP – except that we have differences of view in domestic policy. It's better to keep silent about partnerships that are currently in place. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Read the union paper!]] – I have little time to speak, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lafer, according to the "Little Newspaper" of 18 and 20. February – he is a very large border expert of course – better monitoring the EU's external border, harder penalties for tractors, more pushing places and so on. The request from the past goes into this notch, as well as the oral remarks. Mr Lafer and honourable Members of the FPÖ! You know, these demands are an old hat and have long been implemented. If you were serious, ladies and gentlemen, and had been following the reports by the Ministry of the Interior and the Federal Minister Schlögl, it would be clear to you that very, very much is being done to secure the borders: 3 billion Schillings have been invested, and a large part of the increasing number of illegal border workers is due to better controls carried out with more staff. [[Abg. Young: That's not enough because the Andrang is so big!]] However, Mr Lammer should know that he is a gentleman himself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But: To brighten up the blind spot with him, I would like to list a few activities that the Ministry of the Interior has set. First: In Lower Austria, the number of officials is increased by 160, second, a mobile support unit will take up its service from April onwards. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] – Listening It's all right! – Third, from March, an unmanned aircraft equipped with night vision equipment – this is the first one in the border country in Europe at all! – be used to combat organised towing. [[Abg. Madl: That's not enough if it's the first and only one!]] - Listen! A task force group with 27 men is said to react to movements of the tractors. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 27 men! How beautiful! That's the rescue!]] This group is to be increased to 100 men by the end of 1999 – apart from the equipment that has been created so far. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Read the union newspaper "GÖD"!]] The officials are happy, they tell me again and again. Mr Schlögl has sought additional planning sites by 300 to 400. Austrian internal security is a focus of the Federal Government, and this is well-known, the population knows – only the FPÖ does not know! In contrast to your dissatisfaction, however, it should be noted that the Minister of the Interior is extremely recognized and highly popular among officials – that will be You probably don't like to hear.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14366	President. — The debate is closed. Schlögl. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14387	Mrs Partik-Pablé! It's always the same with you: They are good at the analysis and bad, because wrong, in the conclusions. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what I always blame you!]] We see that we have certain similarities of nature. Mrs Partik-Pablé! Do you know what the problem is? . You think that the Schengen Agreement poses great dangers to Austria, you think, Mr Lammer, that on the border with Slovenia and with other Eastern European countries, very many people are waiting to come to Austria illegally. That's a big deal, too. Yes, the figures are right, but they are probably much higher than Mr Lammer mentioned today. But even if we were not members of Schengen, even if we were not members of the European Union, we would have this problem at our borders with the Eastern European countries. That is why I think your argument is completely wrong, namely that you are responsible for the migration pressure that we have from the Eastern European neighbouring countries at our borders. That's just not right. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The nets would be there!]] The right thing is that Schengen has brought many benefits to Austria. It has brought the advantage that we have freedom of travel to Italy and Germany. It has the advantage that Austria, Germany and Italy grow even more together than they have been before, and it has brought the advantage that cross-border police cooperation has become much better than it has been in the past. At the Bavarian-Austrian border, this has also manifested itself very clearly in the level of crime-reconnaissance rates that have risen significantly. This is not my assessment, but the assessment of the Bavarian Minister of the Interior Beckstein, who recently said this at a press conference. I believe that cooperation under the Schengen Agreement has brought us many benefits. We are now also connected to the Schengen Information System. The Austrian security forces, Mr. Jung, are thus available to almost 8 million arrest data – data on personal and property warrants – which they have available at any time at the push of a button. Last year's success was impressive. We were able to arrest more than 4 500 people or find out what we could not have done without connection to the Schengen Information System. That's a great success you just can't talk about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and by Dr. Gredler and Hans Helmut Moser.]] Of course, I am unhappy that recently, in Italy, the Minister of the Interior, the recognition of illegal immigrants has taken place. The number of 250 000 illegals is very, very high. If this were a one-time action, I would still understand it, but since 1985 it has been the fourth legislative action carried out in Italy. I am convinced that it was not the last legislative action. I have therefore also made very strong reference to this issue at the last meeting of the EU Ministers of the Interior and, with the support of my German colleague Schily, I have clearly indicated that Austria does not agree with this practice, because this is a call for all the refugees of poverty, to the Schengen country, to come to Italy in order to obtain a legal status there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that what has been criticised by Mr Jung in relation to the conduct of Greece against Öcalan, and the lack of information from Greece to the other European countries has already been clearly shown in my statement today. They are aware, however, that this is not so much a problem for Greece – EU, Greece – Schengen, but above all a national problem of Greece, because, for example, the President of Greece did not even know about the events surrounding Öcalan, a state visit here in Austria, and was actually only informed by the Austrian authorities about the facts. I therefore believe that this should not be mixed. I give the right to all those who demand that there be a common European policy on immigration policy and asylum policy. I have been trying for more than a year to achieve this common policy. I assume that we need not only a common case law in this area, but also a common practice and solidarity between the EU Member States. [[Abg. Young: Until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day!]] I recognize this solidarity in both financial and human terms, and I am very optimistic that we will succeed in this year. At the beginning of the Austrian EU Presidency, only three Member States were in favour of such a solidarity; at the end of the Austrian Presidency, there were twelve Member States, and I hope that the remaining three countries, namely Great Britain, Spain and France, will be able to be convinced of such a solidarity over the next few months. I am quite right, Mr Murauer, when he criticises the fact that there are too few places to push in Lower Austria. I do not want to press ahead with this responsibility, but Mr Murauer must point out – he also knows – that this is primarily the competence of the country and not the competence of the Minister of the Interior. I hope that, in the next few weeks, the corresponding joint initiatives of the Federal Government and the Land will be put in place, so that we can also create thrusts in Lower Austria, just as we have recently done in Burgenland. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Austria's accession to the Schengen Agreement was an important and correct step towards more openness and cooperation in Europe, but also an important step towards greater security on this continent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14461	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one is reporting on this. There is also no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are now coming to a number of votes, and I therefore ask that the seats be taken. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on the Interior to give approval to the conclusion of the contract in 1420 of the Supplements. If you would like to grant this approval, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is largely approved. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in Danish, Finnish, French, Greek, Icelandic, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish, should be made known in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public inspection during the official hours. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority. Accepted. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Interior to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1421 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This happens by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request in accordance with Rule. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in the above-mentioned languages, must be made known by the fact that these are imposed on the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public consultation during the official hours. Whoever wants to stand up for this, I ask him for a sign of that kind. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of this Treaty in 1422 of the Supplements. If you would like to do so, I would ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request in accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in the languages mentioned above, must be made known by the fact that these are imposed on the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public consultation during the hours of office. If you would like to give him the consent, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the Treaty in 1423 of the Supplements. If you would like to do so, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall vote on the request in accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in the languages mentioned above, as well as the authentic version of the Schengen Convention, must also be made known in Finnish by the fact that it is imposed in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the official hours for public consultation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Interior to give approval to the conclusion of the current contract in 1424 of the Supplements. If you want to give these, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. The Committee's request will now be put to the vote in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in Danish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish, as well as the annexed authentic version of the Schengen Convention, should be made known in Danish, French, Greek, Italian, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish, by making them available to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public inspection during the official hours. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of this Treaty in 1425 of the Supplements. If you want to give them, I would ask for a sign of this kind. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall come again to a vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in Danish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish, and the annexed authentic version of the Schengen Convention, should be made known in Danish, French, Greek, Italian, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish, by making them available to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public inspection during the official hours. If you stand up for it, I'll ask for a sign to do so. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Furthermore, the request for approval by the Committee on Internal Affairs of the conclusion of the contract in 1426 of the Supplements will be approved. If you would like to do so, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall vote on the Committee's request in accordance with Rule. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its authentic versions in French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish, and the annexed authentic version of the Schengen implementing Convention in Swedish, must be made known by having them published in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the official hours of public consultation. If you stand up for it, I'll ask for a sign to do so. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Interior to grant approval to the Contract in 1427 of the Supplements. If you want to give these, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the Committee's request in accordance with Rule. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that, as regards its authentic versions in French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish, and the annexed authentic version of the Schengen Convention, it must be made known in Swedish that they are to be submitted to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public inspection during the official hours. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are coming to the next item on the agenda. However, there are only two words available so far. We will therefore immediately re-enter a voting procedure, which, by the way, contains a constitutional provision. 13. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1433 of the Supplements): Convention on the marking of plastic explosives for the purpose of detection and the Annex and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (1600 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14656	I'm calling 13. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14684	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Our society is characterized by an increasing rapidity associated with increasing mobility. In an increasingly shorter period of time, more and more people want to travel faster and faster from A to B – whether for pleasure or for work. Therefore, on the one hand, the use of the aircraft has already become a routine for many. On the other hand, there is a deep concern about terrorist acts. This is why we comply with the obligation to carry out large-scale luggage checks, since it is mandatory at international airports from 2002 onwards. Austria is a member of the International Civil Aviation Organization. A particular problem is the discovery or detection of plastic pulp. This brings me to the core of my remarks. This item on the agenda concerns the ratification of the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Pregnancies for the purpose of detection. The Contracting States undertake to mark explosive products, commonly referred to as plastic precursors. The markings are marked by markings by the addition of plastic precursors to markings. The Contracting States shall also undertake to take necessary and effective measures to prevent the production of non-marked explosives or not to authorise their import and export. Today's ratification also makes Austria aware of this commitment, which aims to make terrorist explosive attacks more difficult by providing all plastic explosives with a marking substance to facilitate the discovery of explosives in passenger luggage. I feel it is important to mention that this also makes it much easier to determine the origin of the explosive in the course of explosive attacks, which, of course, contributes to the investigation of the perpetrators. I would remind you in this connection of the terrible plane crash in Lockerbie in 1988, which could probably have been prevented if there had already been an obligation to mark at that time. It is also the occasion for this Convention to be ratified today. The debate on Kurdish activities has already been debated today on the causes and reasons why people are drawing attention to political abuses and injustices. Unfortunately, they do so with violence. However, there is probably no comparable tragic and dissuasive means to attract attention as bomb attacks. It is indebted when people are killed, mutilated or injured in public places or in public transport. We will not be able to prevent terrorism by 100 percent, but this ratification is an important step in order to be able to counteract such sad events, at least in technical terms. In the Committee we agreed on this in a cross-party way. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this agreement can also be reached in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14730	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14751	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Convention on the Marking of Plastic Pregnancies for the purpose of detecting is a legislative and legislative treaty and therefore requires the approval of the National Council. ==References====External links== In December 1988, although more than ten years have passed since then, we are still quite clearly remembered. 270 people were killed at the time. The backgrounds of the bombing are still in the dark. However, the investigations showed that the aircraft was blown into the air by a Czech plastic primer named Semtex. This is completely odorless and could not be seen during the checks carried out. The problem at that time – and still today – is that the various plastic precursors with the usual control and safety devices in international air traffic are not or are extremely difficult to discover. Finally, the tragic incident in Lockerbie was also the decisive reason why an international expert committee has drawn up an agreement on the better recognition of plastic precursors. ==References====External links== The Montreal Convention was completed in March 1991. In the Annex there is a list of the most dangerous plastic precursors as well as suitable markings. The main objectives of this Convention are, firstly, to require the producer states of plastic precursors to identify them accordingly in order to enable them to be detected in the course of the usual checks at airports and, secondly, to facilitate the detection of terrorist attacks by marking. Due to the registration by the manufacturer company, terrorists can be researched in a targeted manner through the follow-up of the transfer path – but only on the condition that they have used a marked explosive. That is why I am voting in favour of the EIA! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As concrete targets for the implementation in Austria, the installation of explosive detectors for large baggage control at all airports with international air traffic – in Austria the six airports – as well as the training and use of explosive dogs are planned. The first is the Vienna-Swechat airport, and the second phase of the airport is the airport in Innsbruck, Klagenfurt, Salzburg and Graz and Linz. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few words on the broad impact of the Convention. Protection against attacks will only be effective if as many states as possible have ratified this Convention, because only by standardising all international security regulations at airports will passengers be guaranteed the necessary safety. In the meantime, 33 countries have joined the Montreal Agreement. From the Austrian point of view, it is particularly important that many neighbouring countries or all European countries ratify this income. However, this has not yet been done by all EU countries. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you, at European level, to take a common approach to safety at international airports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14807	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We'll check the presence quo for a moment. [[Call the ÖVP: But that's enough!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Sure is safe!]] We shall now proceed to the vote, first of all on the request of the Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, whose Article VII, paragraph. 3 as well as the Annex and Declaration of the Republic of Austria in 1433 of the Supplements. With due regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first place in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of giving approval to the conclusion of the present State Treaty in order to give a corresponding sign. – The adoption is unanimous. I notice: The approval is thus granted as constitutionally as possible. I now leave the Committee's request that the present State Treaty should be applied in accordance with Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join him for a corresponding sign. – This too is done unanimously. This request has been accepted. In this case too, I expressly note the constitutional majority required by unanimity. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request in accordance with Rule 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty, with regard to its versions in French, Spanish, Russian and Arabic, is to be made known by the fact that they are imposed for public inspection during the official hours in the Federal Ministry of the Interior. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The consent has been given unanimously. 14. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1581): Criminal procedure 1999 (1615 of the supplements) 15. Point Report and request of the Committee on Justice concerning a federal law amending the Law on Court Organisation (1616 of the Supplements) 16. Point report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades concerning the amendment of the Jugendgerichtsgesetz (BGBl. 1988/599 (1617 of the supplements) 17. Point report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 298/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits and Comrades amending the Jugendgerichtsgesetz (JGG) (1618 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on motion 698/A by Dr Harald Ofner and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure 1975 and the Rules of Procedure to improve the legal status of victims (1626 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 860/A (E) by Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades on effective measures against child abuse and child pornography (1627 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14904	We now come to points 14 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speaker to speak was Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14934	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The accelerator for the most important part of this item on the agenda is ATA-E. This is not a detergent, which is the abbreviation for "out-of-court compensation for adults". This keyword is based on a project of two-way importance for society. First of all, it is important because it is a matter of society taking new forms of reaction to criminal acts. This trend that one does not stick to the rigid requirements of the past decades and centuries – imprisonment, fines, conditional or absolute or partial, and similar – is certainly to be observed. The second major social problem in relation to this is that a very substantial part of criminal law enforcement – I say: the core of criminal law enforcement! – by the lawyer, by the legal judge – in order to speak with the words of the Constitution – to the social worker, to the conflict regulator and thus to get away from the lawyer. That doesn't necessarily have to be bad! I leave it to each and every one of you to break your head, which means all of this politically, socially politically, in a sense, even party-politically. A large area of criminal law enforcement, the core of the offences, will in future be treated and decided not by the "legal judges", by the independent judge, by the lawyers in the Richtertalar, but by the social worker in the function of the conflict regulator. This project is intended to cover about 15 000 Causae a year, up to a five-year penalty limit. It has been written to all those in the main book who spread about the media – you have heard it on the radio – that it is only about light crime and bagatile cases, that is to say, to be punished things that are not worthy of being punished. Five years of criminal justice! This includes a significant part, with the majority of the criminality of the union. A speaker from my group will be even more concerned about what is going on below this limit. But also the non-Jurist, the non-practicing lawyer, knows what all means a five-year penalty limit! Except for those cases which are assigned to the courts and to the jury senates. Those who take a look at the criminal code see that it is not the case that, as I have already whispered, it was in principle only about cases with criminal frameworks up to three years old and only in exceptions by up to five years. It's the other way around! It is generally true that the single judge, which is used as a scale, is used in cases with a five-year penalty threshold and is only a relatively small group of individually quoted offences, which are assigned to the courts, for example – to name but only one – the crime of robberous theft. This provision with the five years goes into the middle of criminality and I am of the opinion that this goes too far. In the Committee's deliberations, I was kept by someone from the field of probation aid and I said: Dr. Ofner, you are one of the fathers of this thought! – That’s right, but I didn’t want it in this form, because that just goes too far in my mind! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The conflict controller has no loyalty to the one or the other of the contractors, neither to the perpetrator nor to the victim. On the contrary, after the presentation, it has expressly the task of supporting all parties in the attempt to achieve a balance of interests. That means that he has the interest of all to have in mind, both the suspect and the perpetrator as well as the victim. Its task is to achieve a balance of interests. That is the plan, that is the goal to be subordinated to everything according to the will of the law. This, of course, automatically leads to a preference of the perpetrator, because if the compensation comes when the disversion takes place, then there is no criminal proceedings, no condemnation, no registration in the criminal register and no more, and the victim must remain on the track. This is understood by itself, and this is not only reflected in the template I have quoted. In the law, it also says: Reimbursement as far as possible and appropriate. – So not necessarily compensation! While it has the essential task of achieving the balance of interests, compensation must only be taken into account as far as it is possible and appropriate – as far as the amount of the fine to be paid to the Republic of Austria is concerned. The payment of these fines is absolutely essential for the settlement of acts, and there is no consideration for the perpetrator and his interests. That means: When it comes to ensuring that the Republic of Austria secures a basket allowance, this is a prerequisite for the settlement of the case at all. Whether the victim finds satisfaction has to be taken into account only if the compensation is possible and appropriate. I am saying this to all those who constantly claim that today's presentation is another step towards making it better for the victims than it is now. The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to support this statement, I do not need to take out any particular arguments, but only to read from the template. The template reads as follows: The nature and extent of the damage and the performance of the suspect and the claims of the injured shall be weighed against each other. – So there is no mention of saying: You're the perpetrator, you're not being punished, you're going to get into the enjoyment of the crime balance, but you've got to make up for the damage that has been done for it! - No! It means: You come into the enjoyment of the settlement, you will not be condemned, you do not even come to court, you come before the conflict regulator, you have no registration in the criminal register, and you have to make up for the damage only as it allows your, namely the perpetrator, possibilities and interests. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is crazy!]] This conflict is balanced! This will, of course, lead – I do not think I can admit – to the fact that one or another among the victims may come up with something more quickly, easily and easily. There's the conflict controller sitting there, the culprit sitting there, the victim. But not everyone knows how to defend himself, so the pre-text of the law quoted by me, that the balance of interests must be brought about by the conflict controller, will very often lead to the victim's being told: Watch out, you get – for example – 10,000 S, so the damage has been replaced and the thing done! That is the solution of the matter, and there is no condemnation. In fact, the victim, who does not know what it has to claim, is, perhaps, a figure of 250 000 s and a claim for determination. I agree that a kind of drinking money loss will be more common inside than it is now. But the total compensation for damages, which is supposed to be a condition for a perpetrator to enjoy the failure of his process, is far away and will hardly ever be able to take place. In other words, the whole of history not only means a change in society in the direction of the fact that the legal judge comes from the legal judge to the social worker as a conflict regulator, with all that belongs to it, but also means that the lion's share of culprit crime with some of the above-mentioned exception crimes falls under this rule for up to five years. But this also means that the perpetrator will also be brought into the enjoyment of the compensation if the compensation is made only as far as possible and appropriate. That means that he is not a prerequisite. [[Calls and calls between Mr Haller and Mr Fekter.]] If anyone does not believe it or if someone else says something else, please come to me afterwards, I will read it to him from the applicable law on the one hand and from the template on the other. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must read it to Mrs Fekter!]] I can limit myself to quoting things as the historical legislator on the one hand and the present legislator on the other. This means that we must assume that, under the pressure of the law's mandate to the conflict regulators, we only take into account, as far as possible and expediently, the claim for compensation of the victim, but on the other hand to achieve the balance of interests, those victims who do not have the appropriate strength, training and personality, who are kneeling and can be found with a butter bread. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a succesful pressure!]] The culprit gets away without trial, and the victim has the butter on the bread, but nothing else. That's the effect that comes out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] I agree that, depending on the settlement here in the House with varying intensity, one can take the view that one wants to do so. [[Abg. Haller: Yes, that's what you want! That's the bad thing!]] I agree that one says that the perpetrator is already a poor devil – that is often the case – and must pay only as much as he can afford, and there is a balance of interests and the like. I'm going to let that happen, but you have to say it openly! It should not be said that the victim would be easier to replace his damage. Whoever knows and claims these things doesn't say the truth. Whoever does not know, I advise him to look at things closely. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Mrs. Fekter!]] Because this one's wrong! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All in all, this is a very crucial step. I would like to stress once again that I am not in principle opposed to things. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: My God, this is now hypocrites!]] But so far-reaching and in this form they cannot take place in my view. They must be limited to a crime which does not include the lion's share of culprit crime, and the compensation must be made conditional and not to carry out only as far as possible and appropriate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This important template, I say out of full conviction, is not properly debated and matured. That is why we call on the Liberals to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15094	Mrs Fekter has also been mentioned. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15124	Minister! Mr President. High house! I am totally contrary to Mr Ofner's view, because I regard this disversion package as a major step towards reform in favour of the victims. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] So far, the victim has always been referred to civil law where, at his own lawyer's expense – that is quite clear, Mr. Lawyers – it had to try to get to his right. In the criminal proceedings, no victim has even had a chance to get damages. But now, in this procedure, it is very likely that the damage will be determined and the prosecutor must submit to the perpetrator that the damage must be replaced. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: If appropriate!]] Therefore, the victim now comes unbureaucratic and much faster to his money than it is according to the current legal situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The state is currently reacting to crimes only with judicial proceedings, and, unfortunately, there the victim is usually only a witness. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where did you find out? At the SPÖ? Did you make yourself so smart at the SPÖ?]] Private participation is often referred to civil law for procedural reasons. That's unsatisfying! The most common cases, Mr Ofner, are likely to be dealt with not by extrajudicial compensation, but by those which involve fines. This is likely to be applied in most cases where, for example, criminal proceedings take place with a conditional fine. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that? Who guarantees that?]] If a conditional fine has not yet been imposed in a procedure, but only in the form of a penalty, then it can be assumed that this form of state response to crimes is the most inefficient because it does not affect the perpetrator. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mrs. Fekter, that may be your world picture, but it is not all to handle with money!]] This is why it is a welcome instrument for us to be able to impose, for example, charitable work. This has nothing to do with money, Mr Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is not a very hard thing...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Useful work, fines, probation periods, extrajudicial compensation plus damages are always – all! – the tougher procedure and also the more efficient procedure to keep perpetrators from future punishments. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: "As far as possible"!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also polemic, Mr Ofner, when you are talking about the great criminality of the culprits, because you have failed to mention that these measures are applicable only if the guilt is low, if they are individual judges and if they are appropriate to prevent the perpetrators or third parties from future crimes. [[Abg. Haller: "Only"!]] This means that these are mainly cases of crime at the district court level. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In order not to allow repeaters to repeatedly take different measures, there is the disversion register. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have not read it yourself!]] For five years, it's registered who's already been dealt with a crime in accordance with the division model. [[Abg. Madl: Yes, but he's unchalled!]] From our point of view, it is therefore welcome because we believe that it is the more efficient measure, so-called perpetrators – it is not condemned perpetrators, but only suspects – to make their wrong which they have committed effective sense of: by the fines that must be paid, and also by the compensation they have to do immediately. [[Abg. Haller:... in the Leumund's Testimonie!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... actual change of society!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: If "useful" and "opportunity"!]] Take the classic example of the shoplifter, who will probably have to pay a fine in the future and replace the damage, not only the value of the stolen goods, but also the costs he caused to the business, for example by the detective or, for example, by the manager. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: If possible and "useful"!]] [[Abg. Haller: Then he buys himself free! A free buy!]] So far, these perpetrators have usually not noticed anything about it, because the ads have not taken place and because the entrepreneurs have said themselves: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where's that?]] A court case with witness charge – only the effort the business has with it – is not worth it! [[Abg. May. Stadler: such a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] This is a development that we are resisting. Now we can do much more efficiently. I also believe that the charitable work will have a huge educational effect on perpetrators in order to prevent them from crimes. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What are you so excited about?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Michael Graff back!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Ofner! As Minister of Justice, they have introduced the extrajudicial compensation for young people. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Under other conditions!]] At the time, you considered the social workers suitable for this conflict settlement. Why is this happening this year and now not anymore? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why did you make a 180 degree swivel in your opinion? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because it's about boy!]] In other words, what you have introduced as a minister today is a defamation of what you are saying. That's pretty unbelievable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Responsible for the division – this is what I want to clarify here – are not the social workers, but the judicial authority remains in the person of the prosecutor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jessas!]] Already today, the prosecutor is responsible for deciding whether to file charges or not to file charges. This decision is applicable law, and this decision is increased by giving the prosecutor an instrument, in addition to either an instrument, so that he says: [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: (keeping a sheet of paper in height) He has to present the disversion!]] If the damage is well done and if the suspect not only accepts the measures, but also fulfils them, then there is no court proceedings, but an entry in the disversion register! [[Abg. Haller: He's not pre-punished!]] Above all, from our point of view, the situation of the victim is incomparablely better than it is in the current legal situation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I look at that!]] The penalties, which were mostly imposed by conditional fines, for which no proceedings had even taken place, were a matter of concern to the rule of law. They are therefore abolished. The current instrument is an incomparablely more efficient response from the state. It does not mean decriminalization, but will probably lead to a tough state action against perpetrators over a wide range of areas. [[Abg. Haller: No? What?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15546	The next Mrs. Dr. Schmidt is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15567	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think this law is overdue. We had to wait too long. I think it is an essential step and an important development of criminal justice. It is an extension of the state response system to criminal acts, an extension that has been in many countries for a very long time, among others with our neighbours Germany, for over 70 years, but also in Austria, but only for young people, for adults only as an attempt. For me and for the liberals, the purpose of punishment is the security of society through socialization and sometimes resocialization of the perpetrators. In this context, the experience – I would like to say almost: continuous – is positive. I therefore do not understand that we have had to wait so long in Austria. In contrast, but not only in this context in contrast to Mr Ofner, I believe that this law has been discussed for a very long time and is therefore very mature. Since 1992, we have had more concrete discussions about this. It has dealt with the doctrine of criminal law. Meetings – whether those of the judges or those of parole aid – were all possible – have dealt with this. In July 1997 the Ministry of Justice sent the draft review procedure, which ended in October 1997. Since then, this has not been done. In my opinion, this is why the ÖVP – and arguments have not been added – has been blocked so far. In the meantime, I am quite surprised that there has been a rethinking there because I do not know what arguments have been put forward. But we have it at least now, and if it has taken so long for this proposal to come to Parliament, we have at least done something, although we have already discussed it: We have also made a hearing in the Committee on Justice. This hearing has confirmed what I already knew and estimated before, namely the positive experience with the division. The tenor of all experts was that through the division a very high individual case-law – I think this is an important aspect – and a minimization of the relapse rate – is also an essential aspect. Of course, this is not a decriminalisation. Those who give here by strange calls to understand that they do not want to understand this may look at the law. It cannot be a decriminalisation if the criminality of the action is not disputed. The action remains punishable! There is also no renunciation of criminal proceedings due to the division. For these reasons it is not decriminalization, however it may be represented. Reality is different. In addition, this... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But there is no criminal proceedings! Just look at the template!]] I guess I did. You should tell your colleagues that they should look in. This kind of prosecution – and is a kind of reaction – is very much for special prevention. I think that's very important. The assessment – which comes from the liberal ranks – that this division is contrary to the general prevention is generally disputed by all countries in which there are high criminal threats and where crime is still not going down. This means that the General Prevention Marry is clearly opposed by reality by deterrent punishments. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You can see that from the example New York!]] You can also see it from the example of New York, as it is. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... Example! This also has to do with the multinational society in New York!]] However, it is also essential that the division serves the protection of the victim. It is therefore for the protection of victims because it is very likely to take account of the aspect of reparation. You can see this when you look at it closely. I do not now take the number of perpetrators – and I speak of "satisfaction" under quotation marks – but I take the percentage of those victims involved in a disversion procedure, that is, who were confronted with the disversion – and I do not like the word "confront" at all. [[Abg. Young: Not the victims either!]] 84 percent of the victims say it was the right way. They answer the question whether they are "satisfied" with Yes, under quotation marks. That is why I do not need to talk about how perpetrators and perpetrators react to it, but the victims concerned say it. Just closing the eyes before, in my eyes only has the ideological reflex: Locking in is still the best! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's not true!]] If one believes that one is changing this society by detaining it, then one has a certain view of it. I believe that it is not only wrong, but, fortunately, it has also been contradicted by reality. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You've been a judge of the Freeman! I know what you really think!]] But I want to deal with other concrete things now. These are two points in which I also have a big difference to the view of Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A very one-dimensional view that you have!]] It's about the scope. While he spoke about this pult, that the scope went far too far, I say: He's not going too far! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I'm saying this for a certain reason. Mrs Fekter referred to something right in this context, namely that the condition for the division is that the culprit's or the perpetrator's guilt is not too difficult. And if it's here... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's not right! The colleague said "lightly"!]] "Not to be seen as difficult," it says in the law. At least you will know that, your colleagues obviously do not know, because if there was a call from Mr Scheibner, in which he – I do not know if he is on the list of speakers; that would be bad – then also "That is nowhere!" Then the good man did not read the law, for otherwise he should have known that in § 90a Para. It's 2. There it is explicitly stated as a condition for the division that the culprit's guilt is not to be considered difficult. [[Abg. Scheibner: All that Mrs. Fekter said is not in there! You should listen well before you talk!]] If this is the condition, then I think it is absolutely essential that a framework be set which limits the scope of the action to be condemned only before the individual judge. Now I'm telling you why. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I don't know!]] Because there are acts that must be condemned by courts – i.e. in a court proceedings – although I considered these acts to be quite appropriate to make them accessible to the division. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh, Mrs. Fekter, you hear me?]] There's, for example, gang theft. Again, I say: The debt must not be considered too difficult. But what about what you do alone? [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] Why should the division not be allowed even if it makes it too two or three? Then it falls under the guise of band theft. Or arson – if the debt is not too difficult to consider. Or misconception – always the same. That means: The condition "no serious debt" is the essential changeover. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What does a slightly indebted arson look like?]] That is why I think it is totally unnecessary to put this framework in the way it has now been set out in this law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Explain this to me! How does a slightly indebted arson look?]] In addition, it is for the prosecutor or the judge to make the decision. That means we have... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Of course, this can also be done by the court, as we know. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Judges have no competence at all!]] I do not know what we have had at all a committee in which precisely these points were discussed. But that doesn't matter now. I position here the view of the Liberals and do not intend to deal with what comes from the right and rightmost corner. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] So if I say here that the definition of the scope seems too narrow for us, I think that we have good arguments for that. The second point that bothers me is that the offence "resistance to state power" is excluded. When I went to committee in the early days, I was able to read in the paper a statement by Mrs Fekter. It believes that offences leading to a breach of the authority of executive officials should be excluded from the extrajudicial compensation. She means the following – you hear and marvel! –: For example, a policeman is not reasonable to the culprit after an instituency of the handshake with the culprit. This is explicitly to be anchored. I am not surprised that this is the view of Mr Fekter and the ÖVP, but I am surprised that the SPÖ as a coalition partner has been able to take this idea into consideration. This hurts me deeply, because I think that the authoritative thinking behind it is unlikely to depress. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] If the Ministry of Justice has written in its explanations on the limits of the extrajudicial compensation, I can live by it. This is a statement that we are saying: Because of the experience that has been gained, this will hardly apply there. Should be. But if that is what the Committee is writing into, I regret, Mr Federal Minister, that it seems to be your intention, then that is something that is very disappointing to me personally. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is a terrible threat!]] It says – I quote –: "The Committee also takes note of the Federal Minister for Justice's intention to ensure, in the course of the implementation of the law and thereafter in an appropriate manner (implementation order...) that those offences in which the protection purpose of the standard does not primarily involve the personal interests of the person concerned, but also external interests" – and now it comes! – "as this is typically the case in the conduct of resistance to the state power and the criminal attack against an official..., in principle, it is not the subject of an out-of-court settlement." That is to say, I do not know who you seem to have demonstrated the intention of ensuring that in future these crimes of out-of-court settlement will not be applied. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Szymanski!]] I believe that this is a fundamentally wrong message, both for the people and for the security bodies. That is why I regret that the SPÖ – and if you've seen how you work together today, I don't understand at all – has made a big difference for this. In my view, for two reasons, it is a false judicial sign: On the one hand, it evaluates the division as an instrument, because it is said: If a higher good is affected, so to speak – that is, the executive, that is a higher good – then we do not go into the downfalls of the division! [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Fekter and Dr. Drinkl.]] That means: Mrs Meier, Mrs Schmidt or Mr Müller are allowed to undergo the division, but they are not a security guard! [[Abg. Young: Do you get sick?]] Do you know what this message is about the worth of the division? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Protection of the monopoly of violence!]] The second reason: We are always talking about the citizen and the citizen being not subject, but about developing a partnership relationship. What kind of partnership is this when my colleague, Mrs Fekter, says: "It's not reasonable for a policeman to hit the hand with the culprit after an innkeeper!"? What does that mean? I'm allowed, but the police don't? It's not reasonable for that? What kind of authoritative thinking is that? What is that worth expressing? The Minister of Justice also says that he will ensure that there is never an out-of-court settlement. This is my deep disappointment about the SPÖ and about the Minister of Justice. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The two will stand up!]] I have to say this because I believe that this is a great opportunity. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't have to protect the innkeepers in Austria!]] Something else is added. So the security body must not give the perpetrator or the perpetrator a chance. If you have been in the committee and heard the experts talk about it, you know that even one of the parole workers – a skilled person, an expert – has told you of an example of how negative it would be if a group had an in-house shop, but then the out-of-court settlement should not take place, so in the future they will not be able to get out of the way and the act of reconciliation, which would be very useful in such a case, in order to show the other also in this way the inconsistency – that is also the meaning of the disversion – should not take place at all. In this way, they not only take the opportunity of the perpetrator to facilitate a future benevolence for him, but also take the opportunity of the victims, namely society. I deeply regret that. This does not change the fact that we will, of course, give this law our approval, because I think it is a very essential step.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15891	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that when we have followed the Committee's negotiations and listened to what was said there, we really must say that this is a quantum leap in the field of justice policy. If we do not want to do this and if we do not want to do so, I must say that I did not fully understand what Mr Ofner said, and I will then go into it briefly - that this must simply be a non-understanding will. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I will explain it to you, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Maybe I've just been dealing with it for a few years!]] Yes, Mr President, that is why it is amazing. - I'd better go into it right at the beginning. They have repeatedly cited the extrajudicial compensation, namely, reference to the extrajudicial compensation, and have cited provisions on non-profit services, which read: "as far as this is possible and appropriate". You have to go to the ATA from § 90d Abs. 3 cited that the damage caused should be compensated, if possible and appropriate. The text you have read about this is contained in the provisions on non-profit-making services and on the payment of a sum of money. With regard to the amount of money it is, please, that the amount of the money must be paid to the State and therefore the State must examine whether it is possible or appropriate for it - the State - to receive a sum of money. On the other hand, in the extrajudicial case-law, there is expressly "the consequences of the act... in particular by making good the damage resulting from the act". You don't have this consideration in there, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true!]] Mr Colleague, read the text. – That’s why it’s completely clear. Not accepting this difference of appreciation simply indicates that one does not really want to deal with the matter. I assume that Mr Krüger will perhaps be correct later. I think that, in principle, one has to say the following about this matter: This is in particular an improvement, because in the extrajudicial case-law, the victim comes to a far greater extent on his – under quotations – "accounting", namely not only financially, but also emotionally. It is indeed something that one can claim to be extremely effective in reducing the frequency of punishment in the future. This is probably the objective of reducing criminality, the frequency of punishment, as a social concern. The fact that it is obvious that only this can be an objective should also be undisputed. [[Abg. Haller: The impunity should be reduced, not the victims protected! Great!]] I should also like to refer to the safety report in this regard. In the judicial part is on the previous page... [[Abg. Haller:... punishment-free society!]] Mrs Colleagues, you will not know, but this, of course, encourages you to speak particularly loud. – There you will read on the previous page of a study carried out across Europe, in which society is asked, with a relatively high sample, which it has for needs and in what situation, in which crime is to be imposed. It is noteworthy that there are 63 percent of Austrians who believe that there is a need to impose different measures in the case of medium-term crimes, namely, social benefits. When I survey the population of Austria and ask: There is a crime, how would you act: with prison, with fines or with social benefits?, and it is 63 percent – and that is one of the leading values for all of Europe – for the latter – Mr Krüger, read the security report through, last page! – then I cannot go here and say that this draft law goes beyond the will of society. [[Abg. Young: Willful!]] Yes, Mr. Jung, willfully! You know, of course, as a member of a former intelligence service, that you can also form opinions as they do not actually exist. This is now also subject to an international study. Unfortunately, I cannot discuss with you at the level. You can't walk against walls. In addition, Mr Ofner has today announced that the door and gate are now open to completely ignorant persons in criminal proceedings. A colleague from your group, you said – some lady – will still report what terrible consequences this has and what offences these are. I can already imagine what you're going to say. You will read the entire crime catalogue here and you will ignore what has already been said by all the previous speakers, namely that the application of disversional measures is only possible if indebtedness is low. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No! "Not as heavy"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But read it! It says, "It's not difficult to see!" [[New calls to the liberals.]] You can of course say that there is no such passage because you do not want this passage. You are against something you mean, Mr Ofner! - have started. I understand that, as a member of this group, you are of course subject to a certain change of consciousness. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Jarolim! How can this be assessed in principle in the 209s?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haller and Mr Jung.]] That's what I'm going to charge you right now. But it's wrong, it's wrong, it's just not comprehensible. I think we should be here when we talk about this new law in a form which is also given in the judicial committee and which is worthy of the judicial committee, mentioning facts, but not dreams that make you rise here as balloons. They want to know that something to which They won't be involved, they're not really good. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Now I know why you agree, Mr Jarolim! Because you don't understand! Now it's clear!]] Mr Krüger! I want this explanation... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Look into the text! You don't even have the text with you!]] Mr Krüger! I don't think I'd appreciate that, because that's another wishful thought. I think we can say in summary, ladies and gentlemen – and I say it again: There are experts... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Mr Krüger, perhaps those who have been involved in the negotiations in the Committee on Justice as experts are not such a caliber as you are. You just have to sort them out, and then you have to decide which position you are in. In any case, the fact is: In this whole discussion, I have not heard a serious expert and no serious expert, whether coming from the field of justice or from the field of teaching or from the field of prosecutors – from your side, I am not talking about FPÖ, I would not call these persons as experts – who would have exposed anything negative to this draft. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] The opinion was one-bright: It is a quantum leap in the development of criminal justice with you and without you. That is why this is really the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16129	Mr Dr. Ofner spoke in favour of an actual correction. The provisions are known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16153	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am correcting one of the conclusions from the speech by my immediate predecessor. He explained that in the course of things he had not experienced any experts who had concerns about the project. I remember him... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Krüger!]] Not the colleague Krüger. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Please let me talk to you. A little patience, shake your overshadowing temperament! Inaccurate things can be said later. I would remind you that an expert from the Ministry of Justice has expressed serious concerns in the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Please, what kind of corrective action is this?]] That was no less than the representative of the judicial association.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16241	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16262	Dobar večer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Although I am not speaking now in the context of an actual correction, I still have to make it clear: What Dr. Ofner said is wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Bravo!]] It is not true at all that the Court of Justice has rejected this, quite the contrary. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The representative of the judicial group in the committee expressed serious concern!]] We had the honour of hearing the opinion of experts in the Committee, including Mr Ofner. In the end, I am still grateful for the fact that this initiative has been taken by us, because a word spoken in a committee also comes from its symbolic content - what is it, Mr Kuchacka? – but also has much more persuasiveness than an information collected in the private or in the service sector. [[Intercessions by Dr. Graf, Dr. Ofner and Mag. Kukacka]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But this is one of the decisive points!]] Dr. Ofner was also present in this committee – whether Dr. Graf was in this committee and I did not remember that – but Dr. Krüger was there at least. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Krüger was there!]] But what you don't want to hear, you don't hear that, and what you're trying to interpret differently, you're going to interpret it differently – that's it. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: And what you don't want to understand...!]] And what you don't want to understand, even though you have even initiated it yourself, you won't understand! It is now a fact of history that precisely during the Ofner Ministry of Justice the extrajudicial compensation for young people was introduced – so it is! – from the one who has taken such a vehement opposition here today. [[Calls of the Abg. Haller.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Degleist is this train, that's all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this criminal procedure, which is under negotiation today, is certainly one of the most important criminal measures in the history of criminal law in Austria, but that is not just my personal assessment. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why we need to strengthen the arms law,...!]] That is why, and also because it has been waiting so long for implementation, it is so important that it is finally implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! I have previously also shown a colleague in my group the quality of such drafts and tried to explain to him why my concerns about their implementation into practice – the discussion was mainly about the administrativeability of laws – are so low in this case: because these measures have been tested in years of field trials. Public prosecutors and judges, who are rather far from the social values of Green Members, have convinced me that this test, which is, so to speak, a sort of "real attempt", will also guarantee the quality of implementation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is now – and there you can now talk about what you want – a real milestone – that is what I think Mr Jarolim calls it – or a breakthrough, as Mrs. Dr. Schmidt called it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] So it is, and that will not be possible to discuss either Dr. Ofner or other liberal Members with loud calls. Ladies and gentlemen! The divergent measures have now been applied for 12 years, and therefore the structural prerequisite for their implementation is also given. It's really important to me to say this here, because there's often some kind of "experiment" field as far as legislative projects are concerned. In this case, it is not! In this case, there is a test. The fact that this phase has existed is also particularly important for the inclusion of this legislative measure in the awareness of the Austrian population – not only for understanding but also for identifying it. Even the skeptics who gave it have finally been convinced. You can believe me – and I have also won this impression at the hearing in committee and in many discussions before – that it has not been easy for prosecutors and judges to accept all these ideas. Because today the claim has been made several times that this is a decriminalization, I would like to say here – because it is my concern – that: [[Abg. Haller: What is it then?]] It is the interests of the victims that this measure primarily strengthens, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's incredible! Incredible!]] That's what's at the heart of this whole thing! I believe that it is certainly not exaggerating to say that, with hardly a legislative act, so much has been done for victims or will be done as with this criminal procedure, which I hope will be decided here today at least with a four-party majority. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: If the perpetrator remains impunity!]] [[Abg. Haller: If the perpetrator goes out without punishment!]] [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The special attention of the victims' interests is paid to this measure, because there is only an out-of-court compensation if the injured person or the injured person says: Yeah, I want to! - It's that simple. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You won't talk about it at all!]] When a victim says: I don't want to, then there's never an out-of-court settlement. Now I'm wondering, Who has a damage due to the extrajudicial act, if it is a benefit for both: for the perpetrator or the perpetrator and for the victim? [[Abg. Haller: For the victim? Now you have to explain to me what the benefit for the victim is! You have to explain that to me now!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important argument for the ATA-E. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Furthermore, I do not know that I believe that the ATA is also an important discharge for the courts. I don't really see any harm in that! In the press tomorrow, I read that prosecutor Dr. Pleischl is preparing a forecast of what the criminal record will look like in the future at a training seminar in Ottenstein. [[Abg. Young: That's why there's not a single shop theft less!]] I think the disversional measures – and that has not yet been addressed here today – are also so essential, because unnecessary stigmatization effects, which bring pre-punishment, simply and simply fall away. This applies particularly to the entry into the criminal register. Ladies and gentlemen! We know very well that the fact – and this is not only a humane, but also an economic point of view – that because of a stigmatizing effect by criminal conviction and the appearance in the criminal register, someone no longer finds work, costs and that this is a very expensive welfare or social or social benefit for society. [[Abg. Haller: This bill is no advantage to society!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Disversional measures are taking this away! This is an essential aspect which must also be identified here. Another aspect is added, in my opinion, which was clearly highlighted by Mr. State attorneys and Mrs. State attorney Dr. Loderbauer in the hearing by examples she told from her experience – I could give you a lot of it here, but my speaking time is too short –: It is a very essential point that the personal impact of the act on the victim, the dispute over what the victim receives, constitutes the main content of the measure in the out-of-court settlement. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The victim is confronted with the culprit again!]] Usually it is in the criminal process – and Dr. Ofner should know this best – that the role of the victim is downgraded to the role of a witness or witness. We know not only how witnesses are treated at times, but also how little they have to do with what they feel. [[Abg. Young: What do you think the victim feels like?]] I've never heard anyone say: The fact that I was a witness in a trial has given me a satisfaction. – But this is the essential point in the ATA! I do not want to repeat what Mrs Dr Schmidt has criticized about the lack of courage of action – not with regard to the law, but with regard to the Committee's report and what has also been collated in the public sector – but rather I would like to encourage the Federal Minister to stick to the law in his still planned steps of clarification. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's what I want! That's what I want!]] But there is not only bright joy, but there are also points in which I must say: I'd have expected more! One of those who has not yet been mentioned is, for example, the fact that it has not succeeded in subsidiarily anchoring fines to ATA. This would have been an essential measure, and this would have been a clear commitment to distance ourselves from this hierarchical system and to say: Yes, that's the weight of the ATA, and that's exactly what we want! – Unfortunately, it has not succeeded in anchoring this law. One last, Minister of State: This is a suggestion which I have made in committee and which I do not know now what the state of its implementation is. The UVS judges have made a very plausible note to the distribution package. As a practical example, let us take a typical case for extrajudicial compensation: a range around a parking lot. Yes, there is! [[Abg. Haller: It's a punishment measure of up to five years!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] These are the cases of practice, which are also described by the parole aid, and I, as a green person, choose this example consciously. So there is an argument, in whatever form. It follows an out-of-court settlement, and everyone is satisfied, everything is fine, but: The administrative penalty is therefore not averted! It all ends up in front of the UVS, because the excitement of public problems or, as a further consequence, resistance must continue to involve a procedure. Mr Federal Minister, you are not responsible for this aspect – well, an administrative criminal procedure, for example, because of the excruciation of public problems, especially since something like this is happening in the public sector – but it does not seem to me to be very productive if, by this fact, the divergent measure does not fully achieve the objective it should actually achieve. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: What procedure?]] It is now not your direct...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16583	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The speaking time is over, please! - No, I was wrong: [[Abg. Young: But for a long time!]] I have been made aware of the red light from the Members' ranks, but a look at the computer shows me that this is a voluntary limit on speaking time. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16610	Nevertheless, I have to come to the end because I cannot consume all the time. But it is important to me to note this, because I am also interested in the opinion of the Federal Minister on this question. A last word on another measure which is now being dealt with under these agenda items, and that is the question of the establishment of special courts, by which specially trained judges are to be given the possibility of dealing with so-called offences against morality. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt and the Greens – and I am sure that we have made both requests, as a measure is to be taken. The coalition parties have taken this up, even in this case after a review procedure within the committee, for which I thank them, because there has been something productive. In the area of the particularly protective sexual sphere, it is created an opportunity to provide for such crimes through judges who are just used to dealing with them, including organisationally. I believe that this is a proper measure. Although our proposal has not been fully implemented, it is nevertheless gratifying that this possibility is created to be taken into account in the interests of the victims again, because in the case of sexual offences in particular, there is often the phenomenon that the victim is made a perpetrator in the course of the procedure of the procedure in which it must occur as a witness. This is why it is particularly valuable for those judges to show special sensitivity and to undergo appropriate training and training. Time's up. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16650	The Federal Minister is now speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Austrian legislator today decides on the new criminal procedure in 1999, he – and I too would like to stress this – will take a remarkable, extraordinary step towards innovation. With the out-of-court settlement and the other forms of the division, we want to give Austrian judges and prosecutors the opportunity to do so, in the lower – quantitatively not insignificant – crime area on a more flexible, individual-related, rapid and effective behavior – I emphasize: and effective! – respond. [[Abg. Haller: Mrs Fekter has already thought about this!]] What has proved to be true in the law of youth criminal law and the law of addiction and in the framework of the model experiment "External action for adults" for years now is to be done on a legal basis in general criminal law at the beginning of next year. This innovation step, ladies and gentlemen, is at the same time a decisive step forward in the safeguarding and enforcement of the interests of the crime victim, and I really cannot understand the assessment of Mr Dr. Ofner. While, in addition to the role of witnesses in the traditional criminal proceedings, the victim has only the possibility of joining as a private party – which too often leads no further than to the reference to the civil law path and even in the case of a claim for compensation of which must be left open to the perpetrator – we can go a different way in the context of the division in the interests of the victim: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] We can help the injured person quickly, easily, unbureaucratically to compensate for damages and consequences, in particular compensation. You must see, however, that by taking on responsibility for the crime and its consequences by a perpetrator at an early stage – I always say, under the pressure of the damocles of another criminal procedure and a conviction and pre-punished – much more likely to be made of this damage, and much more to be expected than in a formal criminal procedure or in a civil dispute procedure that follows, which at the end of the day only causes the injured one again – at least once. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But he gets a damage compensation at a reasonable level!]] Yeah, you'll have that in the version. We are not at this early stage of the procedure at this stage of the procedure, but we are concerned, above all, with a fundamental safeguarding of the interests of the victims and with their active involvement in the process and in the efforts to compensate, but at the end of the day, with a view to providing satisfaction – we also know that this is very important to the victims – and in total to determine the immaterial and material consequences and to balance as far as possible. In doing so, the victim – we have already found this x-time – can serve not only any trusted person, but also a legal representative, a lawyer, and finally it can reject the extrajudicial compensation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Abg. Haller: And what happens then?]] The extrajudicial compensation shall be granted only with the consent of the person concerned, with the consent of the victim. There can be no mention at all of the fact that the victim is being pulled over the table or remains on the track. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there are limits to the pursuit of replacement and compensation for action, not only in the scope at all, but also in the performance of the accused. If this capacity or efficiency of the suspect decreases below the threshold accepted by the victim or by the prosecutor as a condition for the disversional measure, a division simply does not occur and the normal criminal procedure takes its course. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: "Conflict controller" is called that! "Conflict control"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is contrary to the principle of the law!]] We are particularly concerned with a sustainable appeal to the perpetrator's sense of responsibility to deal actively with the act and its consequences, i.e. to confirm the standards of criminal law – not least through the conduct of the perpetrator himself and through his compensation efforts. As far as the scope of the division is concerned, the same thinking errors occur here again and again, and one cannot repeat it often enough: The fact that the division is excluded in those cases which fall within the jurisdiction of the court of the courts of the courts of the courts of appeal and of the courts of the courts of the court of appeal does not mean that all criminal cases falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance or of the individual court of first instance are to be brought into disversional proceedings. This applies only to those crimes in which there are also the general conditions for the different measures, i.e. no serious debt, general and special protective safety and no death consequences. If I – addressed by you... Yes! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... the competence criteria "no serious debt" and "no death"...!]] Sure! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's where the prosecutor has to...!]] Only under the conditions that there is no serious debt and that it is for general and special preventative reasons... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where's that?]] In the basic provision of introduction! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] He has when the conditions are given... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But that's nowhere mentioned!]] Yes, that is in the fundamental section! You just need to read this! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's it!]] In § 90a! Here you go! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: So I'll take it back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the out-of-court settlement and the provision of non-profit services, the lawyers, including the judges and prosecutors, will have to cooperate with the social workers. To this end, we have already gained the best experience in the model project, and we also want to develop it, particularly with regard to the facilities for victims' assistance or the intervention agencies in the domestic field, in order to find ways of response as appropriate and tailored as possible to individual cases. But – and here too I must urgently ask not to mix one with another – the decisions of the division are, of course, not taken by the social workers, but only by the competent judicial body, namely by the prosecutor or by the judge. The role of the social worker is limited to the function of the mediator, i.e. a mediator in criminal proceedings and in connection with the compensation talks and compensation agreements, or to the placement of non-profit services. Neither the allocation of appropriate cases to the social workers nor the decision to justify the withdrawal of the persecution shall be withdrawn from justice. Both remain with the judicial system. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes, it remains, but nothing happens!]] With the possibility of taking over certain obligations by the perpetrator in connection with a probationary period, for example, to deal with problems of aggression or alcohol, the new regulation will also create new and very efficient possibilities for development in this area. As far as Mrs Stoisits' objection to the relationship between this different measure and administrative law and subsidiarity is concerned, we must distinguish: If this is one and the same act which is punishable in both areas of law, then the subsidiarity of the administrative offence remains; if, on the other hand, there are several acts, there should not be any exclusion of one by the other. That is not the case now. Why is the first one given? – Because it is not a decriminalisation, but it continues to be punishable under judicial criminal law and therefore does not lead to a double punishment, because the principle of subsidiarity of administrative law also applies in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, that legally decorated newspaper commentator is right, who wrote a few days ago about re-learning in criminal law. The most extensive reform of criminal justice has been in front of us since the criminal law reform of the 1970s. The debate, which has been held in full public for many years and in all the various bodies, has found a broad legal consensus in the High House Justice Committee, and I suppose that is the case today. I believe that this is a good condition for the implementation of the division into practice and for acceptance by the population. I do not wish to miss out on thanking all those who have made their contribution at one stage or another at the time of this decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16877	Thank you many times, Minister of State. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16901	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me get to the bottom of one: Mr Ofner, you have said here in an actual correction that the judicial association would have been against the introduction of this measure. That's not right! I have here a textual protocol of the committee, and there Mr Aistleitner has explicitly said, first of all, that they recognize that the concerns of the judges have been addressed, second, that it is a reasonable solution, thirdly, that individual case-law gains that the limit of individual jurisdiction is good and so on and so on. – So what you have said here is not quite right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that the Austrian People's Party has indeed had massive concerns about the original draft. However, we can see today that many of these concerns have been raised. We were particularly concerned with strengthening the victim's means of influence and improving reparation for the victim. We were also concerned with the definition of the scope of application; that was already said. In the end, however, – and this was a special problem for us, I like to admit – it was about those cases where it was not about the settlement of a personal conflict, but about the settlement of a conflict between individuals and the institutions of the state. With satisfaction, we can see today that it has succeeded in negotiating with an eye to a draft law that can certainly be widely agreed. The new law does more for the victim without having to capitulate before the mass crimes, Dr. Ofner! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's not true at all! Unscrupulous! It's a decriminalization!]] There is no decriminalisation in the areas of small crime – you know that just as we do – because otherwise we would have to eliminate the crimes or at least attack the rules on criminality. We didn't do that, we prevented it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Dr. Ofner! They know that the situation in these areas is even worsened, such as shoplifting. What was it like so far? The culprit has received a conditional fine. That didn't scratch him at all! We therefore accept the Minister of Justice's intention to provide for fines and compensation in these cases and not to impose a conditional fine on the perpetrator. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That he does not receive a conditional fine!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You said that didn't scratch him!]] He hasn't washed his earwashing anymore. You know that! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But excuse me, I know I have...!]] Dr. Ofner! All the political groups in this House believe that these measures do not lead to decriminalisation, but rather that these measures open up new opportunities for us to react to criminal acts. If you don't want to take note of this, that's your personal problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I worked as a defender and I know that...!]] Mr Dr. Ofner, I already admit that I am not a practicing lawyer like you, but you should know in particular that the ATA opens up new opportunities and you know it too. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Thank God!]] They claim something against better knowledge. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's nothing new!]] I am surprised because you were the one who first introduced this measure in Austria as Minister of Justice! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But that's a long time ago!]] But today you are against the division at once. Today, you suddenly paint the devil on the wall, which can happen if you introduce these measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I must say: tempura mutantur! or: The times are changing! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is not all your consent, be honest!]] We, the People's Party, are emphatically stressed that the position of the injured is greatly improved, and we thank the Minister of Justice for addressing our arguments as well. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: agree! § 209 is punished by the back door!]] More emphasis is placed on compensation for damages as a condition for the division. The prosecution has to deal with the interests of the victim – you know that too, Dr. Ofner – and it comes first of all the compensation for damages and only then the division. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: If possible, unlimited!]] Another important point: The extrajudicial compensation shall in principle be subject to the consent of the injured person, with a trustee being provided to him. There, too, your stand, Dr. Ofner, opens up great opportunities. That is to say, it cannot be against the will of the injured person to use this reaction. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Read it!]] There can be no compensation against the will of the injured person for extrajudicial action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would particularly like to stress the findings in the Committee's report that the introduction of the extrajudicial compensation should not lead to the fact that violence in the family is practically a cavalry offence. That was very important to us. We are particularly important – and here we differ from you, Mrs Dr Schmidt, but this must also be possible in a parliamentary debate – to ensure that the Minister of Justice's intention, in the course of the introduction of the law, is to ensure that offences such as resistance to state power or the action taken against an official are not, in principle, subject to out-of-court action. In summary, we allow ourselves to determine: This draft is a major step forward in the area of criminal penalties in general and in the protection of victims in particular. I also appeal to the opposition, in which case to the Freedom Party: We are dealing with this extrajudicial case-law for adults in new country in Austria, and we should not encounter the judicial bodies with distrust, but also give them the opportunity to make the right decisions. The ÖVP was always a lawyer for the interests of victims of criminal acts. We will continue to stand up for these concerns with all our strength in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make an amendment tabled by Mr Fekter and Mr Jarolim on the improvement of understanding requirements, the lack of editorial in the provisions of entry into force and the clarification that the suspect's participation in procedural aid costs should be applied only in new cases. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17187	The amendment which has just been read is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Michael Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17212	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, colleagues from my group have already pointed out what the EIA has clearly been about in this important matter. You are right to speak, Minister of Justice, of a milestone. Whether this is positive or negative will still be to be illuminated by me. You know my attitude on this. But you are rightly talking about a milestone, and my colleagues have rightly pointed out that the question of the ÖVP is that this law should be negotiated and passed here at a little public time. [[In the case of the liberals and their documents, please welcome. Dr. Fekter.]] For I can see one on your ant, ladies and gentlemen – thank you very much for the applause, Mrs Fekter! – as long as I have known you, and in part I really appreciate you: I can formally acknowledge to your ants that, in fact, if you are told by the chairman of the Committee on Justice to agree to this law, you will have a very negative feeling. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: It's not that bad!]] You can turn it around and turn it around as you wish, Mr Drunkl, and say that this is not a decriminalization. A few of us, once upon what it means to be criminal, to commit a criminal act, a criminal act! If you say, Abstract is punishable because it is still ponished in the law, but in the specific case it is not punishable – please, this is a dispute about Emperor Bart! In fact, it has been the biggest decriminalisation step in criminal law since Broda! That was determined once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am really surprised that you agree with this because, Mr Drinkl and my esteemed ladies and gentlemen from the People's Party, you are thus putting yourself in a boat with those who still have in mind the thoughts of prisonless society, namely, with that spectrum represented on the left side of this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: No! This is a mistake!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim, I have to tell you one thing: You're far back there. You're in the back with your social policy. Look at the security and justice policy in England, by your party friend Tony Blair, who rightly says: "Law and order is a labour issue." You haven't been there for a long time. You are also not modern with this law, which in fact means the greatest decriminalization. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to clear up some inaccuracies here. I can start with you, Minister. It is simply not right – I ask you to distance yourself from it – if you want to make the honourable Member plausible here that the extrajudicial compensation takes place only on the consent of the victim. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Read it before!]] That is exactly the same thing that Mr Drinkl has prayed for. But what does it really look like? In § 90g Abs. 2 reads: "The injured person shall be involved in an out-of-court settlement in so far as he is willing to do so. The situation of a compensation depends on his consent, unless he does not grant it for reasons which are not worthy of consideration in criminal proceedings." [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] That's where we got it! That's a very clear loophole! Let us follow Mrs Schmidt's example. In my opinion – and I have to tell you that – every person's dignity is equal to that of a police officer or not, but if the victim is not willing to agree to give the accused his hand, for example, because he has hit his teeth, and the court then says that this is not reasonable because – that's incredible! – it is not ready for reconciliation, then it turns out: that consent to an out-of-court settlement is not necessary! There are a variety of loopholes that will allow the accused to pay no compensation or little compensation in the future. It is a mistake, Mrs Fekter, that you want to make the public believe, namely that this is a law in favour of the victims. No question at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What has he gotten so far? How was the position so far?]] In the case of extrajudicial compensation, it is even within that he does not necessarily have to make up for the damage, but it is sufficient if he otherwise contributes to the consequences of the act. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What has he gotten so far?]] He can make a contribution! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You need to see what he's gotten so far!]] In the same way, it is upon withdrawal of the persecution after payment of a sum of money: Where this is possible and appropriate, it may make a sum of money within six months. In the same way, it is necessary and possible to withdraw from the persecution for non-profit purposes. So it is a must that must be cleaned up that a full compensation is necessary for the application of the division. Remember that, and take note of that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no significant change either, ladies and gentlemen, for the accused has already been well advised – the practitioners know – if he has done a compensation or a part of it, because that was really the essential reason for the mitigating. So, in fact, there is not much change. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Why are you so upset?]] With another injustice, I also want to... Mr Jarolim! Your argument is no better because it is loud. You have also misinformed colleagues here. You didn't look into the law, otherwise you wouldn't be able to say that a minor debt is a condition for the division. Look in! It says that if "the fault of the suspect is not to be seen as difficult." Do we agree that this makes a difference? I don't know. Or do we start with Abc for lawyers? That's where we can start. But that this makes a massive difference is probably clear. If everyone here says that the experts would have thought that this was the yellow of the egg, I must say: That's not right! Mr Ofner has already mentioned this. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Ofner was against it! The experts were all for it!]] It is not right because the distribution of roles has been rightly criticized. To date, it has still been up to the independent judicial system to decide, for example, whether the offence of the offence has been applied in favour of the accused. Now the prosecutor decides, and the prosecutor is bound to order. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What is that value?]] Federal Minister! I would now like to refer immediately to the subject of binding instructions, because you have so harshly criticized me yesterday, because I allowed myself to say that the law of law is applied differently depending on which accused people it is. That's not a question at all. If you don't believe me, then believe me. Please contact the former President of the Justice Association, Mr Woratsch. He says: "We probably have the most dependent prosecutors in Europe." And he says literally – that's not from the opposition now –: "They're under the flag of the Minister." [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] I mentioned a few examples to you yesterday. If we are talking about social-democratic politicians like Mr Hatzl, who hires SPÖ something which, according to the Court of Auditors' information, would cost 100 000 S a month, then this is not infidelity and no abuse of office, and the procedure is closed! Even if the prosecutor wants to follow it on, the Chief State Prosecutor puts it in place, and the Minister says: I take note of that! On the other hand, if a representative of the liberals is accused of stealing or dismissing a daily newspaper with a alleged damage amount of 8 s, the statement being opposed to the statement and the procedure should be terminated, because it is a decision and then the "Kronen Zeitung" did not consent to the persecution. Then there's a reverse direction at once, and you say: That's not a scam, it's a theft! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's why it belongs away!]] Thank God the colleague has then been acquitted in second instance. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You cannot judge...!]] But the political intention, ladies and gentlemen, was another one! Let me say one more thing, despite a small overlay, and I would ask my colleagues to understand it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's terrifying!]] – In the Causa Meischberger, things have come to light, ladies and gentlemen! I am not just saying this because my colleague, Mr Meischberger, represented it. The Finanzamt wanted to close the act and got an instruction: No, that's not to do! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your independent justice, Minister!]] Mr. Mair, the witness of the indictment, has mistrusted hundreds of millions of schillings and has gone home after half the punishment. Why did he go home? [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Dkfm. Holger Bauer and Mag. Stadler.]] Do you not see any connection, although Mr. Siegele – that is what Mr. Mair said before four independent witnesses – came to him in half-locked before the trial and urged him to stick to the responsibility and leave the interpretation to others because he still needs it? Mr. Mair has been released after half the sentence. Neutrons This is another case in Austria in which someone has mistrusted hundreds of millions of schillings, but after the execution of half of the punishment goes free, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Or even if Mr. President of the Felzmann Judge Association on the question of the "NEWS" journalist Worm: "Is what Mr Meischberger says that the OGH or individual members should be subject to a SPÖ sewing?", answers: No, that's a nonsens! The fact is, Mr Minister, please comment on this. – that the chairman of the Senate in the Causa Meischberger is a member of the Federal Socialist Academy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] For the purpose of the association of the Federal Socialist Academics, the support of socialist politics belongs. You want to make me aware that this is an independent justice?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What was at Partik-Pablé? - That's ridiculous!]] Mr Jarolim! I'm telling you what's ridiculous: Imagine, at the time in the so-called Sinowatz-Worm complex, when one socialist after another was sentenced thanks to an independent Minister of Justice, that the chairman would have been a member of the Freedom Academy Association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Now he shows nerves! Now he's getting nervous, Mr. Jarolim!]] The devil would have been gone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For all these reasons, we shall make a request to my honourable ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: To the Russian murder and the Partik-Pablé, what do you say? - It's a shame!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] If everything has really been done so objectively, you can certainly agree to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17577	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Hlavac. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17602	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For reasons of time, I do not want to address the allegations to the judicial system which have been made here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do it!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you are able to do this, please do it!]] I also do not want to address the accusations made to the Federal Minister, I think he himself is capable of resisting them. What has been said here is really absurd. I would rather deal with the novel that we should decide here today. I would like to say that I am pleased that we are deciding on it, because I think it is an important step towards extending the state's response to criminal conduct, a quantum leap and a truly important reform. [[Abg. Young: Can you tell us why?]] The out-of-court settlement, but also the other forms of the division, will allow the possibility not only to respond with the traditional imprisonment and fines, but in many cases to find better ways to lead the perpetrator to his illegal conduct, to give satisfaction to the victim and thus to ensure the restoration of social peace. This is the core of this novel, even though something else has been claimed here again and again. It is not about decriminalisation, and not because material criminal law is not changed in any way, but it is not about decriminalization in the specific case. The behavior is punishable, only another form of reaction is sought. I mean – and in this too all the experts agree – that in many cases – not in all, but in many cases – this is a more reasonable procedure. Again to the victim's position: It has already been said several times – even if you dispute that, it is! – that the victim's position in this procedure is significantly improved. We know exactly that in criminal proceedings the victim has no real significance that it is a witness but is not included in the way in which the suspect is asked to acknowledge his guilt to the victim, to show insight and to make reparation. The scope to date shows that it is very positive if an attempt is made to find a balance between the perpetrator and the victim. [[Abg. Young: There is now a state of emergency!]] 55 percent of applications have so far taken place in the social area. That means that perpetrators and victims know each other. These are often conflicts in the circle of friends and acquaintances, in the workplace and in the neighborhood. Punishment often leads to harshness, while the extrajudicial compensation of acts always makes it possible to reduce tensions and problems. 84 per cent of the victims want an equalization because they rightly feel that they would only play a minor role in the criminal process and that no real discussion of the problems is taking place. [[Abg. Young: Which survey do you have from?]] It is also true that 84 percent of the victims are satisfied with the solution. That's a serious investigation. [[Abg. Young: Tell us what survey this is from!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Jungsche Secret Service survey!]] You heard that in the Committee. If you'd been careful, you'd know what the experts said there. But I notice that you have a very selective perception. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of Abg. Young) Read it!]] In order to address the arguments again: The Committee has put forward the argument that it is a ransom. It is now more argued that it is being tried to feed off the victims. Both are wrong. It has also been said – but you do not listen to it – that the civil law path remains open, so that first, in the process of extrajudicial compensation, a material compensation is sought, but in addition, the civil law path is still available. I would like to say to the role of the probationaries, who act as conflict regulators, that here again and again they are argued that they are on the side of the perpetrator and not on the victim's side. This is by no means the case. It is not those probing agents who act as a probing agent for convicted persons, but these are specially specialized conflict regulators. I would like to stress that these people are doing very positive work and that the balance of action has so far been a real success. The division is an important new element in Austrian criminal justice. I am pleased that today we decide to take a promising course.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17735	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. There is the agreement that you can also speak from the seat if you wish. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17756	Mr President. Minister! I speak from the square today, not because I wish, but because the lift is broken and I can't drive to the speaker's desk. The reason why I am referring to the extrajudicial settlement is that the extrajudicial compensation is inseparable with the name Dr. Stremesberger from Linz is connected. No one who has dealt with this issue will ever forget that it was Dr. Stremesberger – one of the most committed judges in the years 1980 to 1985 – who started the project of extrajudicial compensation in Linz. Dr. Stremesberger would certainly have done a lot in this direction in his life, if he had not himself fallen victim to an amok runner in the court in Linz and had been killed there. I don't think we should forget one thing. Dr. Stremesberger is behind the extrajudicial case-law. I have already worked very intensively with Dr. Stremesberger in 1987, as the head of a non-profit association in Linz. I took the risk of working with young people who had the chance to settle the extrajudicial case-law in a social club. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the liberals! You must once be ready to work with people who benefit from this opportunity. Only then can you assess whether it brings something or not. I've never studied, I'm not a lawyer, but I've worked with criminal youths and I didn't have any fear or concern, because it was a positive job for both me and the young people. I believe that the young people will never experience the positive experiences they have had in our social association in a court or if they were imprisoned. The victim/cultor know-how and reconciliation have reached far beyond this act. I would just like to give a single example of this so that you know what I am talking about. I experienced that a man was willing to cut his hair free of charge at the time of his act – because he was a hairdresser – for an old lady for one year in his free time. For this woman, it was a big thing, because she didn't do well financially. The friendship or acquaintance with this old woman has expanded so far that at the end the man not only cut her, but also her ten or eleven girlfriends for months, even for years. I think that the example of this experience can only show how useful it is for young people to have such a chance. After that, I have often met young people who have made the extrajudicial compensation in my association. The experience was very good, and the relapse rate was very low. Dr. Krüger! I think you missed an important "section of life" insofar as they did not have the chance to work with Dr. Stremesberger. If this had been made possible for you or if you had already finished your studies at the time – I don't know what the reason for that – then you could not talk as you said before. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I know him well!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That was for young people! That's not going to be different today!]] By the way, you have no right to do so, Dr. Krüger! As you know – but this is another thing – the Upper Austria of the Freedoms has been condemned. She has lost a trial against me and has a lot to solve. She hasn't done that to this day. Do not speak rightly if you yourself are not willing to execute spoken law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17805	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17835	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As a transport spokesperson, I would like to deal with the transport criminal law in connection with the division today, because of course it also brings with it, in the criminal law, the abolition of the conduct of criminal proceedings or the termination of a criminal procedure without a claim of guilt and thus without registration in the criminal register. I expressly welcome this. This means that, according to traffic accidents which have resulted in negligent physical injury, it is not, I expressly emphasize, that there is now the possibility of the prosecutor withdrawing from prosecution, instead of a conditional or mandatory judicial penalty, and instead of requiring either a fine or the provision of a non-profit service. The suspect must expressly declare himself willing to provide non-profit services within a period of six months. The non-profit services to be provided are not yet fixed, but they are, so to speak, in a list to the prosecutor. In my opinion, red-cross facilities, disability facilities and rehabilitation facilities should be affected primarily, at least in the broadest sense, in the context of the rehabilitation of road accident victims. Furthermore, the prosecutor may withdraw from the pursuit of a minor criminal act, determining a trial period of one to two years. What I particularly welcome is that this trial period can also be associated with a certain commitment. This could again be, in particular, the obligation for road accidents to complete traffic training courses and first-aid courses or to attend recruitment or behavioural training. So this is exactly the repertoire of commitments that the administrative authorities can already impose on alcohol offences. On the one hand, these divergent measures lead to a certain decriminalisation – I say that consciously – in the case of negligent traffic offences, in so far as the traffic criminal is now no longer registered in the criminal record, but, on the other hand, through a concrete reparation in the form of non-profit-making services or through the obligation to train training courses, the awareness is heightened for the act, a stronger impact on the cause of the accident and the reparation effect is also enhanced. I think that is a right and necessary measure, so I welcome this wait for this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: And from other waiters?]] Federal Minister! However, I think it is necessary, particularly in the case of transport crimes, to give the prosecutor very clear rules on the application of the various different distribution measures, so that, in the various court proceedings, there are not too many different rules, such as we have in some cases already in the criminal law of transport. In my opinion, the exclusive implementation of only one different measure is often not sufficiently appropriate to clarify to the criminal the injustice of his action or to prevent the future conduct of a similar act. I believe that while, according to a slightly negligent traffic offence, a fine will normally prove to be the most appropriate penalty, I believe that transport robbers and alcohol offenders would normally be able to cope with a combination of either a fine and the imposition of a corresponding obligation, such as the visit of a traffic training course or a first-aid course, or with a fine and a non-profit obligation, such as work in a rehabilitation facility for victims of traffic. This combination of disversion measures is currently not possible, because at present it is either the payment of a sum of money or the provision of a non-profit benefit or the determination of a probationary period or the extrajudicial compensation. So it always applies to either – or, but a combination is not possible, and I do not consider that to be appropriate and targeting at least in terms of traffic criminal law. Rather, it would be better to give a corresponding answer to transport crimes, which have been committed grossly negligently, with a combination of disversion measures. In that respect, Mr Minister, I expect that, after a certain period of trial and experience, a re-adjustment of this law will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17896	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e17917	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! One of my previous speakers has already said that we are in a social change, and that is true. The question, however, is not so much about whether it is good or bad, but only about whether you want it or not. I believe that in the House of Lords and in our society, it is obvious that the left-wing ideologists with the social-romant cores in the ÖVP have been enforced here – and this is unfortunate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is unfortunate, of course, when you think of such a scheme. And if the comparison with the youth sector is always made, where there are such cases of application, then I must say that apples are compared to pears. One has deliberately distinguished oneself from the adult jurisdiction in the youth jurisdiction and there deliberately wants to choose these instruments. We, too, would not have closed ourselves in the area of negligence and in the event of a lower maximum penalty for such a regime. There we would have been quite ready to talk. But there was – and this is what the climate in the current judicial committee – no longer even a willingness to talk. The facts are on the table, and it has simply been enforced by the majority without any concrete and factual arguments. If you look at the specific cases, you have to be clear about what you decide today. Thus today, among other things – and this is addressed to the address of the ÖVP, because I do not think that you really want it; that the left side of this House wants to do so, we know for many years now – a decriminalization of § 209 StGB decided and thus made the same-sex fornication with persons under 18 years of age virtually punishable. What do you say, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: fine, for example! Punishment!]] There, all the facts are based on our left-wing social romantics, the debt will always be small or not difficult there – I have no doubt about that – and the reconciliation character will be in the foreground. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Well, what's he getting now?]] What will that look like? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And now?]] What will a reconciliation look like in this type of crime? Will it then be called: Bussi and reconciliation? [[Other calls of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You really want to achieve that? – There can be no such thing as that! It is precisely there that we must prevent all of this if we do not want this social change in our country. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I take note of the fact that the EIA has made a change of mind in this regard and is now also in favour of the fact that there is a duty for the perpetrators to be free of punishment in the case of offences covered by § 209. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Such a nonsense! We do not change the criminal law because of § 209!]] How should an out-of-court settlement work between perpetrators and victims in this area? You'll have to explain that! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Useful work! Trial time! Punishment! Read the law!]] And there will very well be – and since Mr Kukacka, who seems to have kept some false reports permanently – a fixed legal claim for this out-of-court settlement. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Under certain conditions! Only under certain conditions!]] The prosecutor only has the opportunity to intervene in minor exceptional cases, such as cases of death or other "littleties" which are expressly excluded, but there is an appeal against it, and this appeal illustrates this claim even more! And today you decide everything with this! Minister! With this novelle – it may not be very opportune to say that in this House, but I have already said it yesterday – a further step is taken in order to at the same time contribute to the hallucination of the free legal profession. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Except for the notaries, but they're still coming!]] Minister! They shake their heads, but you use the "conflict solver" in the future. It's a new quality. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Legalizers" instead of "Notes"!]] Not lawyers, but trustees can be added in the future. They oppose the law’s arrest. But only the lawyer can ultimately really effectively enforce the individual interests and rights of those concerned, and you know that! But for better knowledge, use these conflict solvers. But this path has long been taken. He began with the work and social jurisdiction in which the chambers – the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Commerce – and trade unions were equipped with the power of representation before the courts. You have now also done so with the social workers in the conflict resolution, and you are about to do it with the mediators, even without an exact job. In the future, psychologists will be represented by divorce cases, but judges will be able to carry out a resuscisable and lucrative side-by-step business. They need the duty of silence or the obligation of confidentiality, and that is why they have been incorporated into the Professional Change Act. We will still discuss this. You did so yesterday for the business loyals regarding representation before the Supreme Court, before the Administrative Court – including in the recovery proceedings, including in the re-establishment process in financial criminal offences – although against your opinion. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: Against my opinion!]] You are represented in the Council of Ministers with one voice! [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: I was not in the Council of Ministers, I was in...!]] You could have prevented it or raised your voice heavily! I would have expected a Minister of Justice to do this. But even in the field of equal treatment, one prefers to entrust an authority rather than established lawyers with the cases because they are supposed to have nothing to do with the matter. Minister! Unfortunately, they belong to God, although you yourself belong to a free profession – I said this yesterday also to the Minister of Economic Affairs – among the graves of the professions! I am saying this with this clarity, because it really is about the substance of the professions, because it is not an intelligent solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They, like the Minister of Economic Affairs, are raising angular writing in Austria to the system, and on the other hand, we will always express ourselves to the liberals! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Stoisits]] The representation by the legal friend has obviously become obsolete here in the country and here in the house. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18105	The Federal Minister and Mrs Fekter have now come to speak of an actual correction. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18126	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. But you have now referred me to a very sensitive point. I come from a professional profession and have not forgotten this, even if I have been a minister for more than eight years. The fact that I turned to the administrative court for the right to represent economic loyalty has led to the fact that it was not included in the Council of Ministers' proposal. I can't do anything about the fact that the National Council has chosen another way. This is the law of the National Council. Secondly, it should be noted that no legal representations will be used in those areas where the disversion will normally take place. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's not true! Five years of impunity!]] The person concerned is simply given a penalty. And that he, even if now a different measure takes place,... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is the core of punishment!]] Mr Ofner! A lawyer's office is not necessarily planned now, and it is not necessarily foreseen in future cases. Just as a victim now goes to his lawyer, he will also go to his lawyer in the future. That he can do this enables him to attract a trusted person. Therefore, the status of lawyers in this context is in no way worsened! This also explained the lawyer's office, and not the minister. The Board of Advocates - i.e. the association of lawyers who have spoken in favour of the interests of lawyers - has expressly supported this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18175	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Fekter has now come up with an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, it is about the facts to be corrected and then about the actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18203	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Graf claimed that the ÖVP had undergone a change in the sense of decriminalisation towards the freedom of punishment of § 209. That's wrong! – It is true that the divergent measures agreed by the EIA do not constitute decriminalisation. § 209 remains as it is. Mr Graf also claimed that Mr Michalek had agreed to the Courts' right to represent the auditors. That too is wrong! – The Federal Minister – he mentioned it himself – was always against it. He has articulated this to our group shortly before the decision was taken in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18248	The next word was spoken by Mrs Anna Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18270	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I notice: The colleagues from the FPÖ have an extraordinarily selective capacity, both as regards the reading of the bill and as regards its interpretation, but also as regards the statements made by the experts in the Committee. In fact, this distribution package only understands what has already been applied in the youth sector for 14 years and what has already been applied exceptionally successfully in Austria in the model experiment for adults in many cases. It is quite clear – and this has also been mentioned by almost all speakers – that this brings a considerable advantage to the position of the victim over the current legal status. The most important question – at least it was for me – is that of this new measure: What about the relapse frequency? Will the perpetrators, who are not handed over to jurisdiction and thus to the classical law enforcement, be rescinded? And the second even more essential question is: How, then, do the victims judge such an intervention? How satisfied are they with the outcome of this extrajudicial case-law? If you look at the statistics, you can see that it speaks a very clear language. In the case of the extrajudicial agreement – in relation to judicial conviction – only half of the perpetrators will be returned! And this is understandable, too, if you think about it psychologically: It is the effect of a completely different one if the perpetrator has to deal with the victim, if it also makes clear to him and is brought before his eyes what shock or suffering this crime has caused to the victim. It is therefore – confirming all those involved – of course the willingness of the reparation of a material or immaterial damage that has been suffered is not equal to that of the offender when the criminal in court takes a penalty and thus feels that he is being punished enough. In the conflict settlement – even if the dispute was fought by colleagues on the right side very vehemently at the beginning of the debate – the victim, the harm or pain suffered by him, the unbil, has a very central role to play. We therefore want a permanent legal basis with the amendment of the criminal procedure... [[Abg. Boy: How?]] I just explained that! Just listen to me! I am annoyed at the fact that the volume of calls behaves proportionally to the meaning of their content! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] In particular, the ATA serves the position of the victims and allows for emotional relaxation of the suffering suffered in addition to the financial compensation. The benefits to be provided by the perpetrator – such as fines, compensation for damages, taking responsibility to the victim, charitable work, therapies and so on – improve the possibilities of prevention of violence – that is probably a very important concern of our society! – and can contribute to the fact that future acts of violence are not at all committed. Finally, I should like to make the following amendment concerning corrections and bug reports. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18358	The amendment, which has just been referred to, is also submitted as correct in the course of the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18383	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really must congratulate the SPÖ on its full conviction: You've done something quite great! If, at this presentation, you had brought into the explanatory statement or also into the political argument that you wanted to make a big step towards your goal, the prisonless society, – that would have been true – then, of course, or at least hopefully, resistance from the ÖVP would have rained here. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, we don't want that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, Mr Scheibner, we don't want that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course!]] - Of course, Mrs. Fekter says. But you are so skillful, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group with your colleagues from the Greens and Liberals that you know that you will have problems with this. Therefore, instead of "prisonless society", they have called it "diversion", and already the ÖVP is happy to agree. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Stoisits]] Mrs Fekter argues here, although she seems not to have read the law properly at all, and there is a large majority here for this step towards the prisonless society. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Maybe I can't read!]] That we say our clear no, Mrs Fekter, that you should write in the main book! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You too should, of course, come to No, especially since at least outside of the voters you always act as if the rights of the victims were your concern, and always declare that you are doing everything you can to restrict crime and the criminal. What is it about, ladies and gentlemen? – They have adopted a measure that may be useful in the law of the youth criminal law, in which, in particular, young first-laws should be given the greatest possible mildness and, as far as possible, should lead them back to society, into general criminal law: the institution of out-of-court crime settlement. They have, in fact, provided the opportunity to buy a fine or a fine from any alleged social activity in the event of a criminal threat for up to five years, including the large majority of the offences. One is not even brought before the judge, there is no judgment, there is not even a decision such as in criminal proceedings. There is then this amount of money of 180 daily rates – this is also a strange punishment: This is just half of the highest amount of a fine. Minister of Justice! For example, the activities in social institutions are limited by a few weeks, and in addition – it has already been mentioned – the compensation or compensation for damages is made dependent on the fairness for the perpetrator! So you really can't talk about a victim protection, an advantage for the victims, but there's a lot of what we've been discussing here in the last few days, ad absurdum. Please remember, Minister of Justice: Yesterday, we held a debate here, and all of us were unanimous in the view that a very terrible offence, namely the circumcision of women, should also lead to the corresponding punishment in Austria, that the Austrian rule of law should send a clear signal that such actions constitute a serious injury to the body and are being prosecuted by us. With today's measure, you have led all that was spoken yesterday, ad absurdum! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For, ladies and gentlemen, if I were to look at the threat of punishment as such, would I be very interested in what is happening – Mr. Schieder, you shake your head? – if this is the serious debt, the argument comes from: [[Abg. Arbitrators: I do!]] Please, this is common in the culture of the perpetrator and not in this way, according to our criminal law criteria. We know that there has already been no apprehension in this area. So these are all the plates you're presenting to the public. Today we are going back in exactly the opposite direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: such a blow! That's crazy!]] Mr Jarolim, another point – and President Steininger has even given us the right to do so: You have not even been able to make this law formally right. You have decided an § 90a, which states that the prosecutor has to proceed according to this chapter and withdraw from the pursuit of a criminal act if these points, such as payment of a sum of money and so on, occur. - That means the prosecutor has to go away from it. He has no discretion. It doesn't mean "he can" or "he should," but he has to go away from it. – So much to § 90a. If you continue to go a few paragraphs, you will find the § 34 criminal procedure, which has long been in force. And in that it's in Abs. 1: The prosecutors have all the criminal acts that come to their knowledge, lead and suspect punishment. So, what is the point now, Mr. Schieder, because you look at me like that? Does § 34 now apply, the principle of legality, according to which the prosecutor has to prosecute all criminal acts, or is now in agreement with § 90a, which states that the prosecutor does not have to prosecute if certain conditions occur? So there are two conflicting paragraphs in a law! [[Abg. Arbitrators: With "pursue" you think that he is running after him and punishing him, don't you?]] That's what it said: Well, that's the exception. But President Steininger has expressly said, Mr Kukacka, that it is necessary to take care of this, because if these exceptions concern more cases than the rule, then it would be worrying. Minister of Justice! It is difficult to get the exact figures, but according to our information – and at the same time one has to rely on the theoretically possible cases, and not on your estimates – the vast majority of the offences are covered by this exception of § 90a. Even President Steininger said that it would have been reasonable and proper to make at least the effort and change § 34 instead of leaving these contradictions in the law. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: They have been drawn over the table by the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With this decision, if you understand it today, you have taken a big step towards an old socialist ideal, the prisonless society! That's what you have to answer! But when it comes to your municipal council elections or other matters, do not act in front of the population again as the great protectors of the victims! It's not you, but you're the fulfillment agents of the left ideologists in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18556	Mrs Konrad has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18578	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With my speech, I join the advocates of the legal basis for the disversion measures, especially for the out-of-court settlement. Again and again – especially addressed to the FPÖ: The extrajudicial compensation is not an arbitrary, impoverished response to a criminal conduct. He does not serve, as you always suspect and as your honourable Member Partik-Pablé has said in an article, the discharge of criminal statistics, and he is also not a winking destruction of a criminal offence as a cavalier offence. The opposite was and is more important to our group, especially in the field of family violence. That the punishment with the extrajudicial settlement does not result in a round table talk, as you claim, you should actually know, and I say you know it too. You should actually know – and I say it again and again – that the extrajudicial compensation cannot be carried out against the will of the victims, as you claim. What you want is to delay the implementation of this law. But practical experience is more credible than this ideologically motivated polemic, and experience has shown that extrajudicial action is a committed measure to promote social peace. The practical experience gained in this form of the conflict settlement in Austria in the past years is also sufficiently scientifically accompanied and adequately evaluated. They have proved to be so positive that we consider it useful and objective to anchor them now also by law. But for you of the liberals obviously don't even count arguments from experts if they don't fit into your business. You can still list the studies so often and call the results, for you this is not important. If, for example, we have been told by the body for parole aid, which was entrusted with this model attempt and in which a separate area, a separate branch for conflict settlement, is to be set up, that over 80 000 people have taken advantage of the possibility of reparation by the extrajudicial compensation, then that does not mean anything to you. It does not count for you either that studies show that 84 percent of the victims wish to participate in the extrajudicial settlement, and it does not matter that the experts told us that 84 percent of the victims who participated in the extrajudicial case-law were "very satisfied" or "very satisfied" and only a very small percentage, namely 8 percent, "unsatisfied". We have already heard that the frequency of arrears in the extrajudicial case-law is much lower than in judicial convictions. Finally, 90 percent of young people and 70 percent of adults have achieved extrajudicial compensation. This has also increased the chance of a good living together in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! So the extrajudicial compensation is not just a response to a lack of behaviour. He not only uses the perpetrators' misbehaviors, but also activates their positive abilities in favor of victims and society. In this sense, my group also supports the bill as a further contribution to the development of a new culture of conflict in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18633	Mrs Madl has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18654	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though you still have a hundred times more to pray by the Social Democrats and also by the ÖVP, what your committee chairman and your clubman may have proposed to you: This doesn't make things any more true either! In order not to allow you, the EIA Members, to say that you did not know certain things, such as how the extrajudicial compensation can come about – and for offences which are threatened with imprisonment for up to five years – I have made the effort to find some things, taking into account all the derogations provided for in this law, and also taking into account the individual offences. You can then think about it. I know that this does not matter to the Social Democrats, because this ideology is well-known. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How can you claim this?]] But so that the colleagues from the ÖVP can imagine how the out-of-court settlement can happen in these crimes, I present it to you and then leave the assessment of your imagination and character. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, there is § 207 about pornographic representations with unmistakables. All of you, from every political group, have stood here a short time ago – when the matter was flown up in Bad Goisern – and have agreed unanimously when it said: Pornographic representation with unmistakable – impossible! We are all in favour of not having such a thing! Now the perpetrator can rejoice, for he has the possibility of extrajudicial compensation in the following act – I quote –: "Whoever is an image of a sexual act on an unmistakable person or an unmistakable person in himself, on another person or with an animal," – that is also said in it – "whose consideration, according to the circumstances, gives the impression that such a sexual act has occurred in their production..." – and so on, quoteers – is to be punished with a criminal dimension of only up to two years. [[Abg. Großruck: Bestialism is called this!]] After that, it becomes sharper: "With a term of imprisonment up to three years it is necessary to punish who in the Abs. 1 as a commercial or as a member of a band.' [[Abg. Arbitrators: You think the animal then negotiates with the culprit?]] Now I ask you what the extrajudicial compensation of the victims looks like. Or: the dangerous threat. It is so easy to say that after a dangerous threat, one can reconcile with handshake – as the liberals demand. It is said in the law – I quote – that: "Whoever threatens a dangerous threat by dying, with a significant mutilation or contaminating, with a kidnapping, with an arson, with a threat of nuclear energy, ionizing radiation or explosives" – thus threatens to commit an act with explosives – "or threatens to destroy economic existence, must be punished with a imprisonment for up to three years." - Quote. I ask you: Is the severity of the crime a "gummi story"? – The perpetrator may desire an out-of-court settlement – that is possible – but the victim may be mentally ruined in time of his life, which the perpetrator cannot estimate at the time of this threat! [[Abg. Großruck: This can only be positive for the FPÖ!]] The injury of the body with serious permanent consequences, § 85, is not excluded. [[Abg. Großruck: Rosenstingl should have hacked wood!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what it says: "Has the act forever or for a long time... the loss or serious damage to the language, vision, hearing..." – Really very ridiculous, funny! If you get rid of hearing at an innkeepery, if you have a hearing breakdown or something else, I would like to experience the out-of-court settlement, gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Imagine what the FPÖ delegates would have to work then! Rosenstingl should go hacking wood!]] How do you imagine the solution of the crime in connection with the victim, and it is not mandatory? I continue: "... or the reproductive capacity,... a significant mutilation or a conspicuous impurity or... a severe suffering, disease or inability of the injured, the perpetrator must be punished with a imprisonment of six months up to five years", depending on the severity. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're lucky you don't know what you're talking about! Don't understand what you're talking about!]] Nevertheless, this is a serious injury to the body. Severe emergency or intentional serious body injury: All of this is included in these crimes for up to five years. Even criminal organizations and towing are involved. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Listen, § 278a reads: "Whoever establishes a long-term business-like combination of a greater number of persons, or who participates in such a connection as a member,... who, if not exclusively, on the recurring and planned pursuit of serious criminal acts that threaten life, physical integrity, freedom or property, or serious criminal acts in the area of sexual exploitation of people, tow or illicit traffic by means of means of combat, nuclear material" et cetera, "is to be punished with a imprisonment of six months up to five years." [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Or: Abuse of a relationship of authority. All abuses in the authority relationship from stepfather or uncle to children, to the unmistakable, in the relationship between teachers – pupils or teachers – apprentices are included. Imagine, for example, the extrajudicial balance between an apprentice and a teacher when, for example, a girl was sexually grappled by his teacher. There, however, the women's smells are calm because they have not read it out, because they do not know at all what dimension this law can have in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: It's embarrassing what you're talking about!]] Or a casto-particle at the end: Kidnapping a wild or defenseless woman. She doesn't need any visible damage, but imagine what can happen. [[Abg. Großruck: But that was not a friend who made the speech to you!]] [[Further calls.]] That's what it says: "Whoever a person female sex," - listen very well now! – "that is mentally ill or in a state which makes it incapable of resisting, abducted to abuse or lead to fornication, must be punished with a term of imprisonment of six months to five years." – All of this will also be settled with the extrajudicial compensation. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already said it: We know you from SPÖ – your ideology. But now you cannot escape the responsibility of the ÖVP – even if some Members of the national vote do not escape – that, if this law is passed today, you are the agents of the left ideology!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18857	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e18887	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Madl has been concerned that we are hiding, so to speak, and that we are not aware of all the terrible things contained in this law for women. For example, the abduction of a wild woman led her from a paragraph. [[Abg. Madl: No!]] You have referred to the kidnapping of a wild woman, and I would just like to say to you: This section is a woman-discriminationist. He's been dead for a long time. He's been a member of the Criminal Code for a long time. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] They have listed all the offences that have a criminal framework of up to five years. That's what you've listed, and you've done that consciously. Either you didn't understand or They deliberately do not want to hear something that has already been said fifty times today: In order to compensate for extrajudicial action, we need the consent of the victim. [[Call to the liberals: This is not true!]] That's it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Madl: No, not necessarily!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Read it! It's been asked a few times today: How do you have the numbers about public acceptance and so on? – If you had prepared yourself for this debate accordingly, perhaps you would have "The perspectives of the division in Austria", a series of writings by the Federal Ministry of Justice. One study is quoted in this – you will know it, Dr. Krüger – from Dr. Arno Pilgram. This is the right source, there you can read it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just briefly – because I would like to take up a very important area, which I think is also problematic, namely domestic violence, family violence – I would like to address what is probably a horror vision for you: the prisonless society. I would like to say to you: We don't need so much fear in Austria. We are at the forefront of those who are most incarcerated, namely the third most common throughout Europe. That's how it looks. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we have at least heard what you want!]] I would now like to turn to what is very important to me and what was very important during the negotiations, namely the problem of violence in the family. I am really glad that it has succeeded – and I have always imagined this as a young Member – to negotiate almost until the last minute and to change some things. This has been successful because there are very dedicated employees, for example, in the Ministry of Women, above all Mrs Mag. Eva Veichtlbauer. She also met with the negotiating partners in the Ministry of Justice, Dr. Miklau, and Dr. Pleischl. That is why we have succeeded, and thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have thus succeeded in anchoring something in a comment in the Committee's report on the cases of violence in the family. I'm allowed to quote that very briefly. The Committee's report contains the following – I quote – in the remarks on the extrajudicial compensation: "... that the bill does not contradict the efforts of the legislator and the Federal Government after effectively combating the so-called "violence in the family". In this context, particular attention should be paid to ‘standard interpretation’; in no case should the impression be given, Mrs Madl, “that the practice of domestic violence is a ‘cavalry offence’.” - Don't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Madl: There would be much more!]] Once again on this issue of violence in the family: I would like to say something about this, and it has been very important to us that this is not a "cavalier crime". To conclude: In principle, I believe that this is what has already happened in Mr Jarolim's speech today. He spoke of a milestone in the history of justice. I believe that, too, and I say that this has actually been the great throw. I am happy about this, and I am convinced that it will be beneficial above all and that it will lead to a more humane Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19009	Mr Krüger, rapporteur, spoke to the House for an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19033	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My predecessor has made the claim that the offence of § 100 StGB, abduction of a wicked or defenseless woman, is dead right and discriminatory for women. I put it correctly that this provision is still in force, material and not just formal, and that a variety of decisions on this provision have been made in the relevant legislative acts, so that it cannot be a dead law. I would ask you to distance yourself from this provision as discriminatory. It is an immeasurable thing if you say that a protection provision should be discriminatory in favour of women! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and at the Greens.]] I think that was, in the best case, an error on your part, and I would ask you to at least clarify this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19081	Whether a legal provision will be considered discriminatory is not a statement of fact to my knowledge. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes, and I therefore ask you to take the places. We first come to the vote on the request by Mr Dr. Ofner to refer the draft for the 1999 criminal procedure, together with the title and receipt in 1615 of the supplements to the Committee on Justice. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you have another chance!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the referral request Dr. Ofner for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. That is why we are coming to the vote next to the vote on the draft for the 1999 criminal procedure in 1615. To this end, Members Dr. Fekter, Dr. Jarolim and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Articles I.Z.3 and VII. Since there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1615 of the supplements in the version of the amendment amendment tabled by Mr Fekter, Mr Jarolim and Mr Comrades. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at second reading, stand up for it to be a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request is supported by 20 Members, so it must be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! There are two ways to carry out the vote by name. After yesterday's events, one could say: with a vote card. On the other hand, I am personally convinced that this House is mature and able to vote carefully with call. But that is not a question of principle or prestige. If, on the other hand, any club chairman has objections, he may present them. Please, Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19123	In view of yesterday's events, I am seeking today to have the name-named vote with the vote-card.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19150	Good. – The President’s decision has to be made, and I have no difficulty meeting such a wish. We are prepared for both variants. I would ask you to note that the votes to be used – by the way, I ask for the urn to be made available – are in the House of Deputies. They bear the name of the deputies and the name "Yes", which are the grey ballots, or "No", which are the pink-colored ballots. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the votes in the votes cast. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in third reading in favour of the draft law to give 'yes' votes, and those who vote against the draft law to give 'no' votes. I may ask Mrs. Annemarie Reitsamer to start the call for name. Mrs Applebeck will replace them at the time. Please, Mrs Reitsamer.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19193	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19226	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 137 votes were cast. Of these were 109 "Yes" voices and 28 "No" voices. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the names of Members who have voted shall be included in the Stenographical Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer Heinz, Freund, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gazner, Gredler, Großruck, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl Kurt, Hlavac, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kampichler, Kaufmann, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Kostelka, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maier Johann, Maitz Karl, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser-Starrach Sonja, Mühlbachler, Murauer; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schmidt, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegic, drinking, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: apple beck; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Brauneder; Förlinger; Fischl Harald; Tomb; Haller, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Preisinger; Rieß; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Stadler, Tilg.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19385	I should now like to ask Mr Neisser to take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19401	Ladies and gentlemen! We must continue to vote, and I therefore ask you to take the places. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades on the independence of the case law. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the judicial organisation law, together with the title and receipt in 1616 of the supplements. Deputies Dr. Fekter, Dr. Jarolim and comrades have tabled a total amendment. There is only one request. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the amendment tabled by Dr Fekter, Dr Jarolim and Comrades. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, who are in favour of this, I ask for a sign to be given. – This draft was adopted unanimously. A unanimous vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – This draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1617 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1618. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report in 1626. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. I shall now vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1627 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. 20. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1478 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the establishment of the Leopoldstadt District Court and the modification of the responsibilities of the Floridsdorf and Donaustadt District Courts (5. Novelle on the District Court Organisation Act for Vienna (1628 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19515	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19542	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my opinion on the Government's proposal at all times. What's this about? – It is a question of deciding on the establishment of a new district court, namely in the Leopoldstadt. This will have several consequences, especially because, by setting up this District Court, a discharge of the District Courts Floridsdorf and Donaustadt will occur. I would just like to remind you that, because of the development of the population, especially in the districts of Floridsdorf and Donaustadt in Vienna and because of the housing offensive in Vienna, it is necessary, of course, to facilitate in the interests of the citizens, even because of the great spatial distress of the Floridsdorf District Court. This is currently for the 20th and the 21st. ==References====External links==* Official website District. I think it is still a long time to find a solution there to take a measure against this shortage of space. Federal Minister! Let me, although this point is not directly related, but there is a very time-consistency, to point out very briefly that there have been letters from the operating committee of the National Criminal Court, as well as for civil matters, to the members of the National Council, which are mainly concerned with asking us to comment on the resolution which we unanimously decided here in 1992. It is about setting up mixed dishes, especially in the district of Landstraße. There are concerns, and there has also been a survey among staff. I think it is our task to examine in the future whether, for example, what we formulated as an objective in 1992, is still valid today. In my view, the context is that, in view of the current budgetary situation, it is legitimate to ask – for example, the establishment of the new district court Leopoldstadt, which is to be decided today, is associated with costs of 135 million schilling – whether it is useful or necessary to continue to provide funds for structural measures in the future, or whether, in one case or another, it would not be more useful to use these funds for procedural acceleration measures. Nevertheless, the present proposal, which is being put to the vote today, is to be approved in the interests of the population. It is a contribution to greater civil kindness when it succeeds – but only when it enters into force on 1 January. January 2001, but these are the preliminary periods required in this area – to come to the construction of a new district court, which will at the same time give real relief to the district courts of Floridsdorf and Donaustadt. The Socialist Group therefore welcomes this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19586	Mr Dr Schwimmer. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak now on behalf of the Group of Voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19607	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Novelle on the District Court Organisation Act for Vienna, the law on the establishment of the Leopoldstadt District Court, not only gives relief to the district courts of Floridsdorf and Donaustadt, both located in an area whose population is growing and which currently have a very large labour load to deal with, but also to the districts of Brigittenau and Leopoldstadt – at least an area with 166 000 inhabitants, the most populous island of Austria, namely the island between the Danube and the Danube Canal – is created a separate district court. This will undoubtedly contribute to a substantial relief for the applicants who live in these two districts. I therefore welcome this very much and am pleased that this law is now what I am already doing on the occasion of the 4. Novelle of the District Court Organisation Act addressed here. I would also like to thank the Minister and his staff for finding a very good location, which is centrally located and easily accessible to the inhabitants of both districts, for the Leopoldstadt District Court, and I hope that, with this very brief speech, I have been able to convince the House to give its approval to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19643	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There has been no conclusion of the report. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting. We shall first vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1478 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This draft shall be adopted unanimously. Adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dr. Feurstein, Mr Schwarzböck: Yeah? - Good. [[Call by Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Feurstein and Schwarzböck:Yes]] The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. 21. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1576 of the Supplements): Federal Act on Changes to the Commercial Code, the Banking Act, the Securities Supervision Act and the Insurance Supervision Act on the Application of Internationally Approved Accounting Principles in consolidated accounts – Group Accounting Act (KonzaG) (1629 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19678	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19706	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Leave Let me briefly make a few remarks about the Group Finalisation Act which we are now discussing. At first, this law sounds very technological, but it is a very important background to this law, namely the fact that previously consolidated accounts drawn up in accordance with the Austrian Commercial Code were rather inconspicuous for foreign investors and partly did not go at all. This law now opens the way for consolidated accounts to be made in accordance with both IAS and US GAAP, which means – and this is essential – that according to the trade code of the Group's accounts in Austria no longer needs to be done in accordance with Austrian law, but can be done in accordance with these two international laws. This, of course, brings the companies much administrative relief internally, because so far, if they wanted to act internationally, they had to complete a conclusion in accordance with the Austrian Commercial Code and, on the other hand, translate and handle it in such a way as to comply with international law. In this way it was much more difficult to bring international capital to Austria. By this law, we have now provided the opportunity to use the consolidated accounts either in one way or another. Those who implement the conclusion according to international regulations – that is, after GAAP or IAS – are then no longer forced to create it in Austria in parallel with the Trade Code, but can go to the stock markets internationally and thereby bring light capital to Austria. I hope that this law will work in this direction. We Socialists can agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19746	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19767	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Group Finalisation Act Novelle recognises international financial statements drawn up in accordance with provisions equivalent to the Austrian regulatory system; Mr Eder has already done this. However, this international conclusion must be created by an Austrian auditor. On the other hand, for companies listed on the stock exchange – especially on stock exchanges in the USA – the participation of an American examiner is required. This leads to the conclusion that practically only large-scale firms operating internationally can carry out these accounts, or that double-conclusions have to be drawn up, on the one hand, with an American and, on the other hand, with an Austrian auditor. Austrian companies listed on international stock exchanges therefore want to encourage further simplification, namely, that a group closure, which is recognised by Austria, should apply in Austria even if it has been created by a foreign auditor. Mr. Minister! I would ask you from this point of view to consider this in the judicial area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19807	The third speaker is Dr. Krüger, Member of Parliament. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19828	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We agree to the Group Finalisation Act. So you see, we don't suffer from any opposition reflex – if you believed it. This law makes sense, it corresponds to the needs of industry. According to the previous legal situation, two consolidated accounts were required, as we know: those according to HGB and those according to international standards, when international or foreign capital was to be acquired. In contrast to the relevant legislation in Germany, the law does not force the company to write the conclusion according to the International Accounting Standards, but offers only an alternative. So there's no compulsion. All in all, I believe that there is nothing to complain about in this Group Finalisation Act, and we will therefore be voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19864	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1576 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft was adopted unanimously at second reading. I call at the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 22. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Joint Report on the Enforcement of the Equal Treatment Act, in particular on the activity and exercise of the Advocateship on Equal Opportunities, the procedures before the Commission and the other activities of the Commission pursuant to § 10a Equal Treatment Act, 1997, presented by the Federal Minister for Women and Consumer Affairs and by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs (III-168/1604 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19917	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mrs Haller as the first speaker in the debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e19944	Mr President. Right at the beginning of my speech a question: This is a joint report by the Federal Minister for Women and the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, and both are not in the house. Don't they think they're coming or are they just on their way here? - Very good! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: One is already in the house!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer takes place on the government bank.]] So one is there! Good. - Good evening, Mrs. Federal Minister! – The question has therefore been resolved at least half. We are now discussing the 1997 report on the implementation of the equal treatment law at this item on the agenda – at a time not very publicly effective. First of all, from a liberal point of view, it should also be noted that the report itself is very meaningful and very well-structured and that the authors of this report are also to be praised freely. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nevertheless, we will not be able to take note of this report – and in this case too, not only because of purely opposition intentions – because precisely because it is so meaningful, it simply offers an exact mirror of Austrian women's policy, the decades-long failure of Austrian women's policy, for which the SPÖ is responsible as a government party and as a ressort responsible party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: So, please! Please!]] On the report itself – I would like to keep as short as possible –: He says that 40 percent and thus the focus of all treated cases is sexual harassment. The number of these cases is well understood as rising, and for me – and I think it is not only for me, but for me as a whole – to be regarded as very dissatisfying that the women concerned have to expect almost in all cases a subsequent termination, and not only with it, but also more often with criminal charges due to gross remorse or violence. As I say, one really has to think about how to deal with it better in the future. A fact is also very well known and shows once again that even in cases of real equal treatment when it is men, in turn women are those who are being terminated. Just yesterday, a case from the Styrian District Hospital became known: a man, the boss, felt sexually harassed by a young, pretty secretary. And who has been terminated? Who has to take the place? – Even in this case, of course, the woman again! This is double unsatisfying, Mrs Federal Minister, and I would ask you, since this is happening in the SPÖ's sphere of influence, to really take measures here and not only to promise the treatment of such cases. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Where is a close-up to the party?]] Well, I would already think that there is some closeness to the party, Mr Schöggl. Of course, complaints about non-sex-neutral job tenders are also on the rise. This too cannot really be regarded as a success. But perhaps the reason for this – I do not know, but it would be possible – is that the Austrian administrative court has recognized that a male term always means both sexes. But in view of that, I really have to ask myself: So far, what has Austrian women's policy found in these supreme courts? It is not new to us liberals that women are being discriminated against in their working lives, especially in the case of wages – the sheer is proving to be increasingly apart – but there are also more cases of inability to work, which are established in the sex of women, which are very unfortunate! And that one of these reasons is the existing ban on night work, against which the state-bearing SPÖ has persisted since 1992, which – I simply have to say – has once again made clear a certain dual nature of women's policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the Committee, the Minister announced that, after the opening of the Office of the Court of Justice in Innsbruck, there should also be one in Carinthia in the future, although the least of the complaints have occurred there. [[Call to the ÖVP: You can only wish for that!]] This has been justified by the fact that the women from Carinthia have so long journeys to Vienna and that this is not really reasonable for women. Well, we liberals, too, believe that overall regionalization would be useful. But it is precisely this fact and this statement by the Federal Minister that gives me the courage to make a free request again. In our view, it is not to be seen that we are now building in every federal state an equal treatment attorneyship, creating new structures, new organizations which are also to be attributed to a certain ideology and a certain half of the empire. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Only in Carinthia! Only in Carinthia!]] Why is the ÖVP – with the SPÖ, it is clear that the Greens and Liberals too – really opposed to at least checking whether this could not be put into the hands of lawyers in order to save women's journeys? I would therefore like to repeat the following motion for a resolution on our type of regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I do not think that a review of this matter would really be against anything.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20087	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been supported by business regulations and has been properly submitted and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Hlavac has now been reported to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20111	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment on Mr Haller's motion for a resolution as soon as possible. We have had this discussion several times, and I do not see any reason to go from our point of view. The regionalization of the equal treatment attorneyship is well established, as shown by the example Innsbruck. It is simply necessary that in such cases persons who are also very specialized in these problem areas are employed. I am therefore of the opinion that it would be very important to continue regionalization, and I am also very pleased that the Federal Minister has announced that there will be an additional job in Carinthia in the near future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to the report that it is very informative and very vivid, and I would like to thank the equal treatment lawyer, Dr. Nikolay-Leiter and her colleagues very much for this. However, I would like to thank her not only for the report, but also for her commitment and for the really important and very difficult, but really excellent work she has done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, we have to learn from the report that there is still a wide variety of discrimination against women at work, that in some areas the entrepreneurs and the superiors have become more subtle in their practices, but that women are still very often rescinded. What is also to be welcomed and the report is the increased commitment of works councils. I believe that it is very important that women also have support in the farm itself, that there is solidarity that they have someone to trust and that they also know that they understand their situation. For reasons of time, I do not want to go further into the details of the report, but only to say that I am very grateful for the proposals and suggestions for legislative changes. I would like to stress, because it seems to me to be very important, a very central requirement, namely the abolition of the upper limit on compensation for damage in connection with discrimination, both in the reason of employment and in the case of occupational increase and in particular in the transport sector. In any event, the upper limits of compensation are very low, and if they are still broken down by head, if several women have been discriminated against, then the amounts that are completely ridiculous and in no way compensate for the damage. That is why it seems very important to me to tackle this. A second problem is the area of sexual harassment. It also shows that there are more and more cases referred to the equal treatment lawyer. I think that this is also very much related to the increasing awareness and that we must help the women concerned. In practice, it would be important to anchor a subjective right of appeal for those who are harassed, which would mean that the subjective assessment is based on the subjective assessment. This would have an advantage if there was a legal misevaluation, that is, if the woman did not get right. Because now it is very often so that the opponent in the proceedings reverses by bringing in a defamation suit. Before that, I think we should protect the women. Ladies and gentlemen! The report shows that there are still many tasks for us that we must continue to work in the field of awareness-building, that there must be more solidarity, but that we, as legislators, are also called on to take further reform steps. I therefore hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that the negotiations of the social partners are going well and that it will be possible to achieve further improvements for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20178	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20200	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the speakers on agenda items 20 and 21. They have done so by keeping themselves very short that the item on the agenda on equal treatment for women will be discussed here today, at least before midnight. [[Abg. Steibl: You can continue the short now when you get to the matter!]] You know, we shouldn't always talk about raising consciousness. You, Mrs Colleague, were also in the committee when we said that we would all have an effect on the fact that women's issues are also discussed at a time when we are still receiving attention. But how does it actually look? How do the parties here determine with the formation of consciousness if women's issues remain at the last or almost last place of the agenda with absolute regularity? [[In the case of the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens as well as the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] I'm not surprised that we're not going on. I really don't wonder: There were three more requests within this committee, all of which - I would like to say almost - were postponed in the sense of a refusal to discuss. If Mrs Haller says, for example, that there is no sexual use at the Administrative Court, I would like to draw attention to the fact that he does not even exist in the individual ministries. A simple request by the Liberals, after which a gender-based use of language would be applied in regulations and modes, was postponed – for whatever reason. Mrs. Minister! I hope you have. Your promise has been made and your information brochure has been sent to the appropriate ministers, so that they will have better instructions for how regulations can finally be formulated in the future. A request from the Greens was also rejected. This concerns a small question of equal treatment, ladies and gentlemen. It was a matter of ensuring that parental leave was at least as valuable as the military time as it was for pre-service periods in connection with discharges. This was also postponed for whatever reason. I am not surprised that we do not want to discuss the karen sage of the Liberals here in Parliament, which is also about bringing more fathers into Karenz. We discuss this exclusively in the media, there the profiles are sharpened. It's election campaign, there's no group jumping over the ideological barriers, and, in fact, the women stay on the track. Women remain on track despite the UN Convention, despite the EU Directive and the existing law on equal treatment. I would also not like to give my highest consideration to the report on its content, its structure and the information contained therein. But it is really frustrating for us women that this report has been going on for years. To do only as if it would be better, Mrs Hlavac, and to call it gratifying progress, that works councillors now accept the issues of women and the issues of equal treatment, it does not really comfort me when it comes to equal treatment for women as long as we are on the spot in all other areas as long as the complaints are increasing – certainly also because we now have a regional lawyer in Innsbruck or because women are developing more consciousness themselves. Discrimination of women in the working world is all-present. It goes through all the points of the report: from the justification of the employment relationship to the establishment of the remuneration, to the measures for training, to the promotion, promotion and so on, and so on. This is really a state that is more than thoughtful. In this report we also read year after year – since I was in this House – the same demands, the same legitimate claims of the equal treatment lawyer towards a novel of the equal treatment law. That's been over for five years. Mrs. Minister! I have already told you in committee: They have promised us that the great novelle will come soon. – I hope she's still coming in this period. I hope that we will get so far, because I am really convinced that we need substantial improvements in this respect. It is necessary to repeat all these points once again, because we have already discussed them in detail during the last discussions. The subjective right of appeal was addressed, the transfer of evidence was addressed, a better protection of termination, especially in cases of sexual harassment, and Mr Hlavac has already referred to the abolition of the upper limit on compensation. But how little weight there is, for example, the recognition of an equal treatment commission, which has clearly explained in writing how a woman has been discriminated against in her professional career, how little recognition of this result has been achieved, we see in public service. That's where we could do consciousness from the public side! We could have a pioneering role if only you, the responsible ones, wanted us. For if the Equal Treatment Commission finds discrimination, but the posts in the public service are already definitely and finally awarded, if it is supposed to be women, it was only about compensation payments, and it is not even for them that they have a right to make careers, that they also have the opportunity to work in a particular area, with the help of their competences identified by the Equal Treatment Commission, which do not differ from those of the male competitors, even if we do not even allow this, although we know how many bodies in the public service are only provisionally occupied and how many places are not occupied over a long period of time – I think of the various universities –, for whatever reason, it must be possible to occupy a job only provisionally as long as there is a ongoing procedure before the Equal Treatment Commission. Then I would rather feel that you are serious about equal treatment and that in the ranks of the government parties there has already been a little bit of consciousness – I say once.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20244	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20266	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by following those who thanked the equal treatment lawyer and the members of the Commission very much. I think that their work is efficient, that the report is manageable and very interesting, and that we have thus gained a very good insight into the situation, which, no doubt, has already been said by my previous speakers, cannot be satisfactory, because it should be an empty report if we could be satisfied because it would not be present. In my opinion, the report of the equal treatment lawyer also shows those key points which will be crucial for the revision of the equal treatment law – I am convinced that it is very necessary –. I support, for example, the acceleration of proceedings, the subjective right of appeal – this anchorage seems to me to be particularly important – and many other things that have also been pointed out today. I do not entirely agree with one point, but it will still be discussed. I still believe that the establishment of a legal aid fund is not necessarily necessary in the form provided for. I could absolutely imagine - and I have already said this in committee - that, for this purpose, the legal protection of the Chamber of Labour could be used, or that it could also be included in the legal protection of the trade union. It has already been referred to by my predecessor and also by the Committee on Public Service. It was said that we also need more help and support for women in the public service. My dear Mrs. Federal Minister! I have a request. In the media some cases of sexual harassment have recently been shown. This issue is also the main subject of the report. We see that the number of these cases increases or that women increasingly trust to present these cases. In this context, there are two reports, two events that make me very concerned and where women need our support. One concerns the case of the mayor of Windish barley. In this respect, however, I only know from the media that the women concerned in this congregation are in a terrible state that they are being despised and directly persecuted because they have had the courage to defend themselves. I know a second case. I also know the women personally and know about these fates. But the similarity is just there. It's about the border army commander in Mitterretzbach – that's my district – where there have been complaints for years. However, these were never comprehensible until the young border army officials were finally out of the agenda, about which it was about, and about which mbbing and sexual harassment were on the agenda. The All in all, 18 of the 24 staff stationed there were trying to move. But it was finally the women who had the courage to act and say: This is not a solution, because the next one to come are the same fate delivered! We have to tell you what it's all about! I would ask, Mrs Federal Minister, that you help the equal treatment officer or the staff representative of the Ministry of the Interior to help these women. My concern – that is why I say this here too – is that the case has been a long time ago, that the prosecutor does not even have anything to do with it, and that the Commission, which examines the case, has been working for so long that the fear of women – that is why they have turned to me for help – is trying to erode the whole thing in the sand. They fear that in the end they will be the ones who then stand alone to fear their posts and find no justice. I think that we really need to help these women. They have also said – and I think it is a pleasure – that certain measures we have taken have been very helpful to them, namely the hearing by an official in and the female contact, so that they did not have to spread all their experiences and experiences before the crowds of men, but have actually found competent help. But the last aid they expect is that we have an eye on the fact that these women suffer justice and that they are not punished for something quite natural: for that they have acted and have actually only demanded their right. In the end, they are mentally ready because they were exposed to mumbling and social harassment, which they have not formally prevented. I therefore think that it is really important not only to have an eye on the opportunities for rise and all of this in the public service, but also to pursue these things. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20331	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20352	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The problem of gender equality policy in Austria and the lack of success in the implementation of the actual equality of women have presented Mrs Hlavac in a side-by-side remark: It has expressed its hope that the social partners will complete the major innovation in the equal treatment law as soon as possible. Knowing the position of the social partners on key issues of women's equality, I say to you: There will not be a big throw out of it, or perhaps nothing will come out of it during this legislative period. In the social partners, women are far less and worse represented, especially in the management positions than in the official political bodies. The awareness of the need for a gender equality policy is painful there. If not other members of the government – for example, I am thinking of the powers of the army and the military services – would have allowed so much caution to be exercised, even in advance to cut off all corners and edges, then there would not be a constant advance in this conservative-reactionary direction. I place a lot too much effort for broad consensus. First of all, there must be a presentation of the place of business. Then there may be a debate, and then it may be that it is difficult to produce a majority. But if you avoid the conflict in advance, there will never be an improvement in favour of women! Because assuming that this is going on without conflicts is really an illusion! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] For example, the regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution was included in the 1994 Coalition Agreement, and at that time was the talk of a equality body in every federal state, in every state capital. Once again, the budgetary situation, difficulties and political resistance were pointed out, and it was withdrawn. And now there's frontal criticism again, although it's only a third place for the whole of Austria. If you know how hard women can free themselves and take vacations to be able to make such a complaint at all, then I do not fully understand this debate. I don't understand why you act so reticently and on widest consensus. In reality, others have been implemented much more quickly. They know that the savings packages have clearly affected women's burdens, that the sheer difference between wages and incomes and age insurance, and that, above all, the compatibility of work and family has not improved, but has become worse. This can also be read at the declining birth rate, which often contradicts the life planning of people, of women. As I said, I doubt the great throw and, among other things, I have doubts that the Committee, Mrs Schaffenrath, did not even make slight improvements, such as the question of discrimination against women taking care of leave in the field of treatment. It is incomprehensible that there are also full voluntary periods with the Federal Government for all labour claims, especially for the completion. While it is always stressed in all election speeches how important a good, adequate childcare is and how important reference people are, when it comes to the rights of these people – women – who exercise it, it turns out that everything is more important. This legal discrimination shows that this government seems to be more valuable than the social and labour protection of women who have occupational interruptions due to Karenzen. It is also asked whether women are not even discriminated against in the area of treatment. For if, for example, they want to return to work after a karenz period, but then notice that it is not possible because there are no adequate childcare facilities objectively, then they will have a disadvantage in the area of treatment, unlike people who, for example, cannot continue to work because of health reasons. I simply do not understand the values expressed in these different regulations. In particular, this contradicts the constantly publicly announced measures to improve women's equality. Mrs. Federal Minister! In this context also a very recent criticism of my part: As I said, you would have all the support if you at least tried to implement some real step of improvement once in a conflict situation. I do not understand why the now widely conjured special emphasis on children, especially in the advertising of elections, especially in Carinthia, has now apparently caused you to advertise for a child-friendly Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But the content is already something different!]] I do not understand the sense of a corresponding advertising campaign, and not even the women's minister. Create equality for women! Take steps towards equality! These are measures that ultimately benefit children too! As we know from current surveys, women want a self-determined life. They want to be free to decide, and this free decision will not be taken. There is no advertising campaign, but there are only real measures that help to combat discrimination! I find it remarkable in the report, which we also have very positive, very clear and meaningful, that more and more women complain about linguistic discrimination, in particular about the texting of forms and designations. This is my urgent request to look at all these forms and to challenge them publicly if they violate the right of women to be addressed in the female form. We know that for the first time a consciousness is to be created is obvious, and that this will also be loaded with conflicts. Unfortunately, we also know from this House that this legitimate right of women is being tried to make fun of. Many applications have been rejected, at least once, to take account of reality and to allow the country's main wife or perhaps the district head woman to be termed. This house has refused! I think that should be possible even in times of savings packages – at least this does not cost any corner house! I think it is more important than it is repeatedly presented by some who pursue a certain conservative ideology. The fact that this awareness is not really present in this House has also shown me the debate on the judiciary before. Mr Krüger, a lawyer, has stated here that § 100 of the Criminal Code is not discriminatory. On the one hand, I think a woman like Mrs Wurm is more competent to note this. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Not only on this question!]] Yeah, not just on this question. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is not the first trust you make!]] Mr Bauer! It is not a tricky conclusion, but it has once again been expressed here as your ideology, and that is significant. That is why I would also like it to be in the Minutes. This section reads as follows: "Abduction of a wild or defenseless woman." – Apparently, the legislator has assumed that this state – and abuse in this state – can only affect women. I think it is also to be remembered when a man is put into the state of mental illness or inability to resist and then fed to fornication. So I see no reason for a gender-specific formulation, unless – and I am afraid so – it swings with the fact that the legislator, at least at that time, assumed that something like this goes with a woman, that it is easier to put it into this willless and defenseless state. [[Abg. Binder: There are no wild men!]] Especially when I read: "Whoever is a female woman who is mentally ill or in a state..." and so on, I must say: That mental illness is not limited to women, I think, but it is obvious, and this is what the Members of this House know. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on the female representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] It is even more terrible in this § 100, if in the Abs. 2 Punishment is envisaged in the event that "a participant in action" marries the abducted and abused. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is almost a conclusion – if it is not so sad because it is the legal situation in force – as in a very evil and brutal fairy tale. Mrs. Federal Minister! I also think that the Austrian legal system should be seen from this point of view. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Do you think or do you believe?]] Mr Bauer! I think I can think. I am not quite sure of all the Members of this House. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Wrongly applied!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! At any rate, it would be high time to examine the Austrian legal system also for such an anachronistic and yet infringing and discriminatory provisions and to propose a major innovation in this regard. For I think that such legislation makes it easier to represent ideologies which ultimately have an impact on women's equality. I already see the real political difficulties with the counter-coalition, but at least such initiatives should be possible, as I think. The debate on such discrimination as the § 100 StGB alone could bring a lot more insight into the public – at least among those who are good will – and thus promote equality between women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20481	The next speaker is Mrs Fuchs. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20503	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Women's policy must in principle be designed in such a way that it is possible to reconcile work and family life. A overwhelming majority of women want to work and family, child and job, career and partnership. It is about enabling women and men to have equal opportunities in family and society. Women's policy is social policy and must therefore be seen as a cross-cutting policy in all areas of society. We need to improve framework conditions, but we also need to develop greater sensitivity to women's issues, especially in the case of sexist behaviours. At the workplace, for example, the solidarity of all colleagues must be sought when it comes to sexual harassment or harassment. We have already found that more than 40 percent of the requests to the Court of Justice were assigned to this issue. We all know that consciousness is reflected in language. It has been very clearly documented that it is so difficult only for women to find appropriate, i.e. female names. For example, when more men became active in women's professions – for example, I am thinking of nursing – no one would have come to the idea of saying "Mr. Sick Brother". A new name was immediately found: the "Health care person". I believe that with a little good will it should be possible to find typical female forms of designation in other areas as well. We have seen from many examples that there is still much to be done. There are proposals for improvement of the equal treatment prosecution, and I hope that your support can be expected in the implementation of them.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20548	Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20569	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There would be a lot to say about these reports, but, unfortunately, given the advanced time and the limited speaking time, I cannot allow longer discussions. Let me briefly address a very specific case. It is true that part of the biggest problem of equal pay for equivalent work is equal treatment. I too was one of those who have always said that there is no such discrimination in the public service. A few days ago, I received a letter from a Graz politicist, stating that there is obviously still this. I quote from this letter: "Since 1974, I have been employed by the Federal Police Directorate Graz as a politician (contract staff with special contract) as an organ of road supervision. Since that time, I have also been in the field service. As a politician, I do not receive an external service allowance – police officer and police officer – although I do the same activities as my colleagues in traffic surveillance, where I have been in the service for 25 years. It was always promised that something would be done here, but nothing has happened to this day." This is a letter from a woman who obviously tried to point out inequality. If there is an external service allowance, I assume that it is intended for the outside service, and if that is what a police officer receives, then it must also be given a politicy. I would ask you – I would also like to copy this letter – to discuss this question with Federal Minister Schlögl and State Secretary Ruttenstorfer, because this seems to be an obvious case of inequality. In this sense, I think, it would be important to look at the whole of the whole area, and to do a great deal in this field of equal treatment, in order to actually realize it in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20610	Mrs. Mag, Federal Minister, has now spoken. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, many things could not be said about the equal treatment report, but on the occasion of the equal treatment report. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I would like to highlight just a few essential points, even with regard to the advanced period, because I believe it is necessary to discuss them more precisely. I deeply regret that I am unable to explain to Mrs Haller at this point – because she is not in the hall – that 31 women and 2 men have already turned to the equal treatment lawyer alone in the first three months of the life of the Tyrolean law firm; all over the year 1997 it was only 43 persons from the western Länder. That means that we have thus shown exactly the proof of this: If there is no one on the ground, women do not contact the competent authority either. I would like to say quite clearly and clearly that it is therefore also necessary to take the next step. We are now collecting the first essential regional experiences with the first regional office. Based on that, the second is to be created, and that is in Carinthia. Moreover, as has been so often, I would like to recall: The Court of Justice is the lawyer of the Republic of Austria's equal treatment and also has public interest in representing the interest of equal treatment, and not private interest in representing the lawyer. This is also the great difference to what is repeatedly demanded by the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! A few specific cases of discrimination, sexual harassment and others have been mentioned. I immediately offered the assistance of the Minister of Women and the support of the relevant local people, including the women who, of course, still want to remain anonymous, – just to give an example – when the situation was known to me. I take any case that comes to my ears to act here in the interest of women. However, I also call on you to become active in the form of civil promotion itself and also to take the courage to put themselves on the side of women to help women with such problems. That means: Information about such cases does not go somewhere and lie down, but rather pick up and bring! We are happy about every single case that comes on our table, and we also pick up every single case. Another point that is very important to me: In the context of equal treatment, it is clear that language and gender-based language are also to be seen. We will still have to make a great effort in this area to ensure that all this is in place in our minds and becomes of course and no longer has to be re-invited and re-invited again and again. Mrs Petrovic! You said the children's campaign was inappropriate. I claim she's highly appropriate! It is also an absolute image advertising for our good, yes excellent childcare facilities, which we have in Austria and of which we need much more [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that it is necessary to do this also shows me the reaction to this campaign: I have received letters in which I am asked not to advertise for childcare facilities, "for children belong to home, to their own four walls, to the mother"! – But this is not our philosophy, but we say it clearly and clearly: Childcare facilities are a place of learning, are a place where the children are well accommodated, and a place that helps to relieve parents in many ways. Another very serious issue for me is, of course, the fact that the issue of sexual harassment is still very much at the heart of the work of the equal treatment lawyer. I believe that it is also a matter of expressing clearly and clearly what is happening in this area of violence, because sexual harassment is an act of violence! In this context, we also have to do everything we can to combat violence and take this seriously. There is also a campaign launched by me, which should also give the women concerned the courage to take appropriate action in such cases, and encourage those who are not affected to stand by. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the women's minister for the equal treatment attorney's position at the equal treatment lawyer's office. It is a difficult and laborious work, but it is important and rewarding in the interest of women in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20717	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20739	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! § 100 of the Criminal Code has already been mentioned repeatedly today. Now, for the fourth time, he is also the subject of the debate. I would like to say that something very typical has happened in this debate about the abduction of a wild woman: In this case, a man has defined what bothers a woman! This, of course, is also a question of definition power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] I would like to thank Mr Petrovic for his help and solidarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I noticed the women's report – and that's positive: Women are increasingly opposed, women have become more courageous, complain more and more, and that is a good sign! [[New call for tender Madl]] For all those who take equality policy seriously for whom this is important, this must be an act of action. In the "profile" issue of the last week, we had to read in an article – it was not a particularly encouraging article – under the title "Dear gentlemen" – probably most of you know him: "Women's career. In the first six years since the Equal Treatment Act, no more women have risen in leadership jobs than before. For men have learned to ensure their supremacy more refined." Then it will be our job to strike back with the same refinement, with the same means very imaginative and with bundled forces! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For they still work wonderfully, the male-Bundler circles, the club communities, which then help for a job. It still works wonderful the glass ceiling in this state, whether in private or in public. For example, I can tell you the following – recently at the University of Innsbruck –: It was about the Women's Chair for Gynaecology. And what happened? – Eight women have applied. Three women were represented in the Commission where 48 men were sitting. Of the eight women who applied, none have found themselves on a threesome proposal. - But that has system! After all, we have a minister who takes equal treatment seriously and who, perhaps, in the course of the transitions of the university, might also occupy this chair with a woman. This is not about any chair, but about the Chair of Women's Medicine! In order to address all these different hidden discriminations, I also thought about some measures. For me, an important step would be the approach that we are now discussing, as has already been the case with the Liberals, namely the link between the cash and the income, in conjunction with a certain cover and a certain amount of the base. This would be an emancipatory measure, and this would also be an incentive for fathers to go more in Karenz. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That's right! Absolutely right!]] That would be what we have to do and should do in the medium term. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Unfortunately, I don't have much time. There's another model I could imagine very well: If a woman complains today, it is now true that she is not getting the desired position, the desired leadership position. As a punishment for them so to speak, someone else receives this post, namely a more comfortable candidate. Therefore, I think it is important – and in Sweden it has already been tried – to take a measure that in cases where it turns out that the woman who has complained is better qualified, then the man who has now got the position must leave the job again. This corresponds exactly to what Maria Schaffenrath has called for in relation to the provisional service relationship. There's still a lot to say, but the time is short. The regional attorneyship in Tyrol really works wonderfully, also thanks to the excellent employee who was found. She herself was the appellant and she managed to enforce that a provision discriminatory to Austrian women was repealed by the Constitutional Court. I wish her luck! She's on the best way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20804	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20826	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank the Equal Treatment Commissioner for the implementation, for the report and also for the good cooperation with the women's representatives in the federal states. However, this report also shows the limits of the equal treatment law. We also need to think specifically about the development of this equal treatment law. Let me take one example: In contrast to the women's promotion bids of the federal government and the national equal treatment laws, there is still a lot of self-initiative for the private sector. What do I mean here? – That high funding at the federal level and at the national level is available for support plans in public institutions – and this is also a good thing – that this is not the case for the private sector, but that there are very good models and that, in my opinion, in the opinion of the ÖVP, these also belong to the Minister of Women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also believe that your opinion in the last committee, Mrs Bundesminister, that it would be a crucial task of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to support these models is not entirely meaningful. I think that it would also be an important task for the Minister for Women and the Minister for Social Affairs to take initiatives and to promote them in the longer term, not only by introducing these models in the short term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] I think so! We have had the debate on labour market services today. I do not think it is enough to make only a women's promotion plan for labour market services within the company, i.e. for the employees, and it is not enough to present only a book, but I believe that, together with the Minister responsible, also by the EIA, whether the Minister for Family Affairs or the Minister for Economic Affairs, women's promotion plans also belong to the private sector. This would be a concern, and it would also be to support the private initiatives already in place.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20873	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20895	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the public's awareness of the importance and reputation of the equal treatment prosecution has increased considerably in recent times, especially because of the fact that the equal treatment attorneyship is really doing a high-quality job. I too would like to thank myself – like others before me – for this work. Nevertheless, I am of course not satisfied with this report, and I am also afraid that precisely because of the pressure currently exerted on the labour market, more women do not trust to sue their rights at work. The report also makes it quite clear that the reactions of employers to women’s complaints are increasingly negative, and often also prevent the equal treatment prosecution from actually taking place on the ground. That is why it is also necessary that we continue to deal with the equal treatment law, that improvements are simply made. This is especially necessary because in Austria we do not only have a very low female employment rate – and it is only possible to be financially insured through a job – but because women still experience discrimination at work, which sometimes goes so far – I am thinking here about sexual harassment – that women just quit, although they often get into existential difficulties. That is really to be avoided! I also think it is embarrassing that women are brought into very bad situations by sexual harassment, by the mobbing of colleagues and employers. It seems to me quite necessary that we supplement the law on equal treatment by a law which does not mean that women can be cancelled during a process of sexual harassment. There must be an absolute protection of termination for women, and there must also be mutual credibility and, for example, in Germany, a subjective right of appeal for women, because, in my view, women are still in a very difficult situation in this regard. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Finally: I believe that the equal treatment attorneyship has taken on a very important task, but we must increasingly improve and re-adjust in this area so that women in the labour market actually have the same opportunities and opportunities as men.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20941	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e20962	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Let me take up a few arguments from my previous speakers. On the one hand: I agree that improvements for women must be discussed. But I would also ask the Minister of Finance to point out that improvements are likely to be linked to costs of which the taxpayers have to pay, and that it is therefore not possible to respond to any proposal in a reflective way with a 'Njet'! Second point: I believe that the quoted § 100 is really also seen by the ÖAAB women as being in need of overwork or rework, and I do not see any complications for a reform either. We just have to do it! Sometimes you may find yourself in other places too – you hardly believe it. So it happened to me when I recently read in an interview that a man said – you pay attention! –: "Every normal person needs a woman no later than four weeks." What does that mean? – "Normal people" are men! – I want it used. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Yes, that's obviously the underlying logic: Women are the objects, the normal people are the men! Summa summarum – it's not much to say anymore –: The wind blows rougher. Women are still not considered to be self-evident in the labour market. The report shows that aggressiveness is more subtle and women are therefore forced to respond more subtlely. Behind that are ignorance, ignorance, insolence, fear, especially – and this is evidenced empirically – fear of men. That is why women's policy is men's policy. I do not think it is possible for women on the one hand to wish for wise, ambitious women as partners, while at the same time addressing women with dependency roles and terms from the last century. Men – and I quote one of the sociologists and theologians quoted in the ÖVP series, Paul Zulehner – must immediately look for their own identity, otherwise they will be mindful. It is therefore necessary to give women power, influence and employment opportunities so that they do not have to fear in old age. I quote, above all, the remaining Lower Austrian colleagues, the Lower Austrian Women's and Family Report, which focuses on women's concerns about poverty in old age, especially because of the lack of employment opportunities and the lack of opportunity to collect pension months. Finally: A male policy is necessary that takes children’s wishes seriously – their own and the partner’s. If it is true that Austria's men and women want two children, but every second woman, every second couple only implements one child – one wish is implemented, I think, or what? – "to be fulfilled" is poetic, thank you! – then the alarm level of the highest kind is announced. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Implementation" is good!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder: "to be fulfilled"!]] I don't need any more reports from the women's resort, from the family resort, but I actually know where... [[Abg. Dr Mertel: That's enough for the 1989 Flemming report!]] The 1989 Flemming report! Wonderful! Dear Dr. Mertel, we'll get him out! Until the next women's report is published – that will be soon – we read Flemming! - Thank you, that's a good finish!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21031	Mrs Bures. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21052	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, we should put an end to the discussion about the wild women and the normal people – the men – due to the advanced time. I believe that it is also wrong for women's policies to be discussed only in the context of family policy and to always and exclusively define women as part of the family and not to see them as human beings with their own beings. We have the task of creating the framework conditions for women to shape and lead their lives as they wish. The definition must not go to the point that they always have to find their happiness in the war on children. - That's just a short time ahead. I would also like to thank you very much for the report, including for the very difficult activity of the equal treatment lawyer. It is clear from the many pages on which this was described very precisely how diverse this task is. First of all, this task is to provide concrete assistance to women affected, to women who are subject to discrimination. The second area is the information of the works councils. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and with the liberals.]] These calls show that the information of male colleagues in the field of discrimination against women at work would probably also be necessary. Thirdly, I am also grateful for the media preparation of the topics, because this is a step towards the formation of consciousness. I would like to mention two examples in which I believe that the work of the equal treatment lawyer, through the discussions of the reports – and I share the view that it is sad that this discussion is taking place at this time – has given rise to a form of awareness-building within the population. It is indisputable and does not need any discussion that there is sexual harassment at work, that women are affected, and it is indisputable – and that was not so many years ago – that it is very necessary to take measures to bring girls into non-traditional occupations, because such measures enable access to employment, equal treatment in access to employment and the same opportunity for a career increase. I believe that women who, despite their resistance – Mr Wurm, have also spoken about the "glass ceiling" – despite massive resistance to them, are calling on the equal treatment lawyer, who wants to enforce her right to the equal treatment prosecution, to take on a very important role in the pioneer role for us. I would therefore like to thank not only the equal treatment lawyer but also those women who play this role. Finally, I would also like to thank the fact that today it was clearly stated that the equal treatment law and its novels are actually a start – not only the beginning of a discussion, but hopefully the beginning of many more novels in the interest of women.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21107	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21129	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Haller has already mentioned the issue of sexual harassment today. It is indeed an issue that is becoming increasingly important, as we see from the report. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't understand you at all! You need to talk louder!]] However, I would like to contradict Mrs Bauer: Sexual harassment can be a topic and a sub-area of mobbing, but you should not mix mumbling and sexual harassment. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have to speak a little louder!]] The understanding is not necessarily related to hearing, Mrs Colleague! On night work, Mrs Haller: Obviously, there's a lot gone away from you. Night work is possible by law, but not at zero rate, as you clearly imagine it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Bureau) Can't you turn louder? I do not hear the honourable Members here.]] As regards the women's promotion plans, Mrs Steibl asked for them here and as a wish for the private sector: Mrs Steibl, we certainly believe that we should also implement women's promotion plans in the private sector. However, it might be useful to talk to your family minister about the fact that the women's promotion plan he is seeking with the care allowance for all is the opposite of what women actually promote. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] They have obviously still not understood it and have not listened. This means that women are getting away from the labour market, that women are eventually being downgraded to the silent reserve army, and that is something that women no longer want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we in this House must also deal with the question of settlement. There is now a confirmation by the European Court of Justice after he has dealt with the discharge in connection with the time of the karenz. It would also be interesting for me to deal with the subject that Mrs Frauen Rauch-Kallat has addressed. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, it is obviously not direct discrimination, because it is different vocational training. But I think that we should, in any case, consider whether this is not indirect discrimination, because it is obvious that women primarily have this vocational training and practice this profession. I mean, this is a very specific case where we can actually implement what Mrs Minister has asked us to do, namely to become all of us personally active. The fact that the issue of equal treatment is far from complete is clear. On the basis of the behaviour of the Members of this House, I recognize that we will have to discuss this issue more often in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I also hope that perhaps a male speaker will comment on this issue. I noticed that most of the men came in only when it meant to vote. Mr Barmüller writes so eagerly all the time, perhaps he is still speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21214	Mr Mag. Barmüller has already spoken. - Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21235	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you very much for the invitation, I am very happy to see it. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: short!]] Mr Rasinger! Not briefly, but I will almost take advantage of the entire speaking time of my group. That this important item on the agenda is at the end – no, honourable Member! – is really a shame to the house. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's 2 minutes!]] It's not fun either, because it's 50 percent of the population in Austria who don't have the same career opportunities as the men. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like It also affects your daughter. You may not be so interested in your wife, but you may be interested in your daughter. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Which of the two?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be seen that from this speaker's point of view, every time, with every equal treatment report, we thank you for drawing up the report and say how important, super, comprehensive and great it is. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Socialists must praise themselves!]] It is also a good report, but it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that it is only a description of a problem that has not changed for years and days. The fact that it does not change – I say quite openly – is also the fault of women in this House and, in particular, the guilt of men in this House, because the women have so far failed to stand up to their own men in their own political groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I say to you, Mr President, there are enough men who would be willing to do something about this, and who would not only make fun of it, like Mr Zweytick, if you finally found the courage to address this problem over the groups as a problem. Mr Amon, we have already made an excuse in this regard. But if there is at last a willingness to address this problem across the political groups also between women and to articulate it, in particular, to men in the political groups, you should not be asked here for every report on equality that this should at last be taken into account. That is why I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of what is also important in this context. Consciousness – that has already been addressed – is important, but performance-related preferential rules are more important in this context than any consciousness-building. They will only reach them if such rules finally exist if they are established, if they are mandatory and if not always here only are asked to think about this at last! Those who have the power won't be rethinking as long as you're not pressured. That is why I would also like to remind you of the words of former Members and Minister Johanna Dohnal, who spoke on her 60s. Birthday in Villa Kreisky said: How strong does the SPÖ want to become until it finally makes serious with the equal rights of women? What percent of you need more than 40 percent You still to finally make serious what you've been announcing for years and days? When will the trade union finally learn and realize that it is not only a matter of going to the streets for officials, but it is also worth it, for example, for collective agreements concerning women, to go to the streets and to equip them – there are very special sectors – so that we in Austria do not have to talk about the fact that poverty is female? This is also a task of the trade unions you have neglected. I have no desire, especially as a man, to participate in debates in this House, where we are talking about the situation in which every time we are told: Mrs Minister, you have made a great report! – But nothing happened in the matter. It is a shame that there has been no movement on the question of equal treatment for years and days! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This shows you are getting old!]] To change this is a matter of this House. In particular, it is also a matter of those men who are so suffocating today. Instead of smiling, thought would be appropriate. I tell you in 25 years will be looked down on those who still smile today, because they will say: We're so sorry, but they just didn't recognize the signs of time at that time! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] So that you don't believe it's just a kindness of mine, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that I am addressing this so vehemently is because I would like to tell you clearly and clearly the following: The Liberals believe that, as long as the role of women in a society is defined as closely as is the case with us, the role of men is also defined. If we do not finally find more room, then this society will continue to be an unfair one on this issue. That is why I would have expected – and I would be willing not only to ask for this here but also to represent it – that the next equal treatment report will not be negotiated at this time when everyone will say, if one goes out: If we stop, one has to talk about this again, but the next equal treatment report really comes on the agenda as item 1. [[He also welcomed the Liberal Forum and the representatives of the SPÖ as well as the "Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Very right!]] If you agree with me now, ladies and gentlemen, we will do it next time at a time when media coverage is also possible. I would be pleased if Mr Kostelka – Mr Khol, who is unfortunately already away – would say at least here: In the Presidential we will not set item 22 next time for the equal treatment report, but a maximum of point 2 is appropriate. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Why didn't you do anything this time? Next time, everyone can!]] Member of the Arbitrator! In this sense, I am already looking forward to the fact that the next time we are both the first speakers of our political groups on the equal treatment report, we will be standing here on the pult. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21368	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word has not been requested by the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting. We shall vote on the request of the Committee to take note of this report III-168 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this sign. - That's the majority. The report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on the regionalization of the equal treatment prosecution. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 23. Point First reading of motion 979/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrath, Mag. Doris Kammerlander and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Introductory Law on Administrative Procedures 1991
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21433	We're coming to the 23rd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Barmüller's word. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] Yes, again, Mrs Reitsamer! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of Abg. Rider) Now he crosses himself!]] This is a request made by five Members of this House: Mr Schaffenrath, Mr Gabriela Moser, Mr Pollet-Kammerlander, Mr Öllinger and Mr Me, Mrs Deputies. I would like to stress this because this request made by the honourable Members has a central concern. We want the middle third effect of the whole principle of equality to be ensured. For this purpose, Article IX EGVG is the right place; this article is to be amended. We have chosen the way to say that the use of sexist advertising should be an administrative criminal record in the future. I would therefore like to stress this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is always said that, as far as sexist advertising or gender discrimination is concerned, this is an act which would not be possible to obtain judicially. But the opposite is true. For example, if you look at the principle of equality in our Constitution, you will see that there is only one area that is not guaranteed in a indirect third-party effect of fundamental rights, and that is gender discrimination. There is no objective argument for this. However, in this proposal we have not generally referred to gender-specific discriminatory advertising, but only to some of it, and that is sexist advertising. We have said that the use of sexist advertising should be dealt with in the future in accordance with Article IX of the ECJ, and we believe that, on the basis of the tip of the iceberg, a major problem should be shown that this is undesirable and that it should be recognized accordingly in the future. It is, however, precisely because it refers only to a small sub-area, also a limped agent. For it is administrative law in which it is positioned, and it is only the tip of the iceberg that is addressed. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also many documents at EU level dealing with human dignity and, in particular, with sexist advertising. To this end, I would just like to quote the 1987 European Parliament resolution on the presentation of the position of women in the mass media, I quote the 1989 directive on the pursuit of television activity, which has not yet been transposed into our broadcasting law, and I quote the Council resolution of 5 June 1989 on television broadcasting. October 1995 on the presentation of the woman and the man in advertising and media. Article XII of the cited Directive – and Directive means that it is binding, it must also be implemented in Austria, Mr Wurmitzer – expressly states that television advertising must not violate human dignity and must not include discrimination according to race, gender and nationality. That is why, Mr Wurmitzer, we - those who have put forward this request - believe that it would also be time, in the Broadcasting Act, to finally prohibit the broadcasting of such advertising. Currently, only hatred due to race, nationality or gender is prohibited. But this is not the correct implementation of the Directive of the European Union. [[Abg. Arbitrators: May I make an intermediate call? – Why only in the Radio Law? If it is bad, it should also apply to foreigners who broadcast in Austria!]] Mr Arbitrator, an important argument. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then it would have to be quite that way and not just in the Radio Law!]] That is why we also believe that the directive should be transposed into the Broadcasting Act. But what is referred to in Article IX of the ECJ concerns... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Must also apply to ZDF and SAT1!]] No, it concerns the broadcast of sexist advertising in general. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It is also prohibited on posters, for example Black & Decker!]] There is, as you say correctly, no factual argument that it should be banned in broadcasting or on television, but not in poster advertising. That is precisely why there is this request from the five Members. I should also like to point out that the Council's resolution of 5 December 1992 on the implementation of the common organization of the market in milk and milk products and on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products. In October 1995, Member States are invited to take appropriate measures to ensure respect for human dignity and to prevent discrimination based on sex. The last point I would like to make is: As it is said that sexist advertising is an undetermined term and therefore cannot be found in laws, in particular criminal law, it has been clear to applicants that sexist advertising occurs in particular when a product or service is applied with a sexual role stereotype, but the product or service applied for does not have a sexual connex objectively. Then, at least, sexist advertising is to be assumed. Ladies and gentlemen! I also quote that since 1995 there has been a BGH judgment, a judgment of the German Federal Court of Justice, in which the competition Senate has for the first time dealt with sexist advertising and in accordance with § 1 UWG has declared it to be simply tasteless advertising as not permitted. That means that what has been possible, for example, the German BGH, will probably also be possible for the OGH in Austria! It is true that we finally need a clear signal. We have already done so in the directives of the European Union, but we have not implemented them in the Broadcasting Act. But with this request to the EGVG, there is the possibility of showing, ponizing and clarifying the tip of the iceberg and of the fact that discrimination due to the sex in Austria is no longer tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21560	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21581	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal, which Mr Barmüller has just presented, is certainly a good reason to discuss issues of sexist advertising. However, I believe that today we are no longer in the mood of holding a longer debate on a very serious subject. We will have the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee. In any case, I welcome the possibility of discussing this issue and of working in the direction of creating awareness that sexist advertising should actually belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21614	The next speaker is Mrs Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21636	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can agree with what Mr Hlavac said. I also believe that it is necessary – and I hope there is no one in this House who is not convinced of it too – that it must finally come to a clarification. However, I would also like to point out that this is not just about sexist advertising. There will probably be much to be discussed in the Committee. I am also disturbed by messages that are transmitted via advertisements that are personally harmful to me and through which I feel humiliated without being sexistic. Mr Hums was very courageous and here in Question Time pulled the train of sexist advertising. Mr President, you have now reached the point that men may also appear. I hope you've seen it. So now the men can be treated the same way. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But not as "hot cargo"!]] But they're not as beautiful as the women, I have to say! I think that's what I'm saying... [[Abg. Arbitrators: That was sexistic!]] That was sexistic, I know! But the men treated this the same way. But it's about something completely different. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But the bill goes up!]] As I understand it, there is a poster of Bank Austria, on which a somewhat older gentleman can be seen with a very young, fresh lady. On the basis of that, I would like to explain what I do not like about it. The message that matters is: Have you been taken care of? Do you have a supply? I can think about what that means. The two marry, that is, the young woman is cared for because she is married and cared for by the older man. I don't really want this picture. [[Abg. Arbitrator: If he dies so early and she has a pension!]] Or is the man cared for because he now comes to the age in which he needs care, and is he now marrying a boy? – So you can philosophize in this respect, but you can also take very harmlessly that he leads his daughter to the travail. But he also provides them according to text. That means it will be very difficult. I do not want to believe in words here, but there are, of course, representations that simply cannot be quite right from the message without them being really sexistic. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We do not want to forbid that!]] No, we do not want to ban everything, but we must point it out, Mr Arbitrator. In some things we are extremely pingy, and there I am consistent. So if I advocate the anti-discrimination of women, I must also admit that I do not like other things, and in this respect I must also say that often representations and messages are not necessarily purely sexistic, but just as undesirable from the statements. I mean, there will be an interesting discussion about this. Although I do not know if this is the only way to regulate it, I could imagine it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21724	There is now a speech by Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot accept this speech because the blockage time for your club has been used up. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Young.]] There is no one left to speak now. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 979/A to the Committee on Equal Opportunities. 24. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 980/A by Mr Mag. Helmut Peter and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Financial Balance Act 1997
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21774	We're coming to the 24th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I give the floor to Mr Dr Kier as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21801	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The aim of our group's proposal is to make the financial compensation law as early as 31. ==References====External links== That is why we think it is necessary because any tax reform, whatever the case may be, will not be satisfied with what is happening, however it may be, provided that we are able to involve the countries in the overall discussion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Here you can see how sex in advertising covers everything!]] This is only possible if the financial compensation is equal to the 31st. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== I hope that this very dry matter will receive the necessary attention, and I would be pleased if we could start discussions on this request as soon as possible in the Committee on Budgets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21837	The next Mrs. Anna Huber is speaking. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21858	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kier! The current financial compensation – it includes not only financial compensation, but also housing and health care funding – is a contract between the financial compensation partners. Since it is also a consensus between these partners, you will probably admit that the State cannot unilaterally announce this Treaty or part of this Treaty. That is to say, the reduction in the duration of the term should, of course, be negotiated with all the other financial compensatory partners. We know very well that the willingness of the countries and communities to do so is not too strong. That means that without consideration, such a thing would not go away. [[Abg. Wormitzer: A little more may it be for the communities!]] With regard to criticism in your application for the lack of internal logic in financial compensation, I would like to say the following: The financial compensation is a sum of very many and often difficult negotiations. There are compromises to be reached, as attention must be paid to the various interests. Even if some provision could perhaps be otherwise regulated in the context of law theory, this result reflects the political will of all parties involved in a democratic process. For these reasons, the Socialist Group will not vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21894	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21915	Ladies and gentlemen! With this proposal, the Liberal Forum demonstrates to us how simple politics could be. In accordance with the principle "If I had something to talk about, I could do everything!" the financial compensation shall be abolished. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: No! Renegotiated!]] Mr Kier! Unfortunately, politics is not that simple. As the previous speaker, Mrs Huber, explained, this is a formal law. But in Austria we have a packed financial compensation as a result of months of difficult negotiations between the federal, state and local authorities. If you, Mr Kier, make a request here and say: We'll do it all! I'll have to stop it: Unfortunately, politics is not that simple! The carnival is over. That is why we will deal with this request at an hour's notice.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21951	This is the next time Mr Magistrate is speaking. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e21972	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to say that, with the exception of the last sentence and what is missing, I agree with the proposal in principle. It is true that for many years, in the countries of the Federal Republic of Germany, over the decades, there have been repeated declarations of intent, major declarations and great announcements in the area of finally using a new instrument and finally creating a new financial compensation, but it remains, as so often in the National Council's policy, with mere announcements, without anything happening. I admit that this matter is difficult, but it is nothing new that it is difficult and that it is not so easy to bring it over. If my colleague boldly says that this is a result of years of negotiations, I must ask: Who's in the countries? Who sets the heads of state? – These are the ÖVP and the SPÖ. These two will simply not agree, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we now have this unsatisfying result, which is really unbearable! [[Abg. Wormitzer: For whom?]] In a new financial compensation, one really has to pack basic things. Is it about making more horizontal financial compensation, making more vertical financial compensation? It is also, of course, a question of letting the European component in, because it is not insignificant what is happening in this small financial compensation in the European Union. All of this has to come into play. I am missing the conclusion from this liberal request here – also personally. It should, at least on a rough scale – not in an initiative proposal, but very probably in a well formulated motion for a resolution – illustrate what ideas the applicants actually pursue in terms of a new financial compensation. In this respect, I believe there are ideas from many parties. I would like to outline the idea of the Freedom Party in a few points. It is certainly a question of creating a new tax compensation for a new financial compensation component. That's a model. To a very strong extent, we float the Swiss model. There the cantons stand in a strong competitive relationship with each other, but also have a tax-finding right. It is already very simple how it is now: that national leaders cash money by means of the financial compensation, which they do not have to "generate" themselves somewhere – under quotation marks – but in whose distribution they are generous. Someone can do this soon: Money that you don't have to tire out to just bring to the man and then go in a benevolent manner as head of state and say: There you did, I did it again for you, for the people! [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's what the shark in Carinthia does! That's what he's doing!]] Yes, all of you like it! That's not an argument at all. [[Abg. Wormitzer: 80,000 S per family!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Wormitzer: If the shark does, it's all right!]] Mr Wurmitzer, that's all good and beautiful! [[Abg. May. Stadler:... when he becomes head of state!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes, is S' the one who criticizes the Haider?]] Nevertheless, we must agree on this undertaking once in a basic way. In this respect, I simply lose the ideas of most parties. That's how it stays with announcements. Mr Kier, it is not acceptable for you to make an own-initiative proposal, make a point, but do not say how it goes on. The discussion about it is legitimate, a detailed discussion would be desirable, however not at 1 o'clock or 2 o'clock at night or at 11 o'clock in the evening. The Liberals have nothing to do with this, which seems to have been decided by the majority in the presidential. But it would be important that we discuss the extremely important issue of financial compensation perhaps once at 9 a.m., 10 a.m. or 11 p.m., but not at a time when some – or most of them – think about going home. So I don't think this procedure is the right way. I would therefore like to have a professional discussion and appeal to you to withdraw this request and to formulate a better formulated motion for a resolution, which also includes the communities – grossly but nevertheless. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Congregation friendly! Community-friendly!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22101	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 980/A to the Committee on Finance. 25. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Doris Kammerlander and Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act for an Atomic-Free Austria
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22137	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I This word message cannot be accepted because the block time for the green club is exhausted. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: She's not present either!]] I therefore give the floor to Mr Oberhaidinger. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22180	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I should like to assure the Members of this motion that we will discuss this subject in depth and in depth in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in the sense of an Austrian anti-atomic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22207	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22228	Austria has committed itself under various international standards not to manufacture, use or possess nuclear weapons. Here, in particular, I may mention the State Treaty or the Atomic Energy Treaty. The LIF is once again dealing with events that have never occurred before. Moreover, first of all, a NATO country has never been forced to do so, and second, NATO has, on its own, also pointed out several times that it would by no means resort to it in the candidate countries. The three nos of NATO are here: No intentions, no necessity and no progress. I therefore believe that this is a subject which once again deals with intentions which in no way threaten Austria as a danger.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22262	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Mr President, there is still a speaking time of 4 minutes for your club. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Thank God!]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's too much!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22302	Mr President. High house! The request made by the Greens is, as I think, to be dealt with in committee. It is true that the time limit set by the National Council itself has now expired and there is a need for action here. Only: The proposal is certainly immature in this form, which is addressed to the Green Members. For example, § 2: "Austria undertakes not to provide any facilities, whatever, that enable the deployment or storage of nuclear weapons." What are these "no facilities"? Furthermore, I would like to say that it is also very essential to use here, where! No, "no facilities" is not clear! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: "No" is "no"! That's clear!]] Theoretically, You may not even – and this could happen without your knowledge – provide the concrete for the construction of any equipment for abroad. This is unforgivable – I just want to point out to you. I have nothing against it if this is held here, but it should be so that it actually holds. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She doesn't understand that again, Mrs. Stoisits! Please explain it to her again! Explain it to her again!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: On Serbian!]] Well, there are other points. Mrs Stoisits will be able to take this up and, if necessary, supplement it, especially if this is serious by the Greens. Furthermore, under § 4 you refer to a transport as follows: "In addition, no derogation shall be granted and at least a transport which is at risk of health and the environment shall be prohibited." – You should insert here the type of transport it is about. The special thing about transports of any kind, even if they take place on the rail, is that they are dangerous and dangerous to the environment. The train is operated with electricity; for that... Yes. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The Greens have now been so intense about the track that they don't know anything else!]] – So there is a need for some additions here. Another point which is definitely to be addressed here and which is my heart: In your application, you refer to the five-party resolution request of 10. ==References== It is always said that there is this unity in Austria, which exists in the National Council on this nuclear-free Europe. I would like to point out, as the opportunity is very likely, how the behaviour of the Federal Government has been, for example, in connection with nuclear energy in the area of the Eastern nuclear power plants – you know what was happening there – at Mochovce. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the Czech Republic there is no longer even a contact in the government!]] You of the Greens are also those who have not supported our minds to junctify here, because the Easter enlargement is so important to you and it does not matter at all whether a threat potential of Mochovce goes out. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Although we are in favour of a nuclear-free Central Europe, the efforts of the Greens here remain very one-sided – more important is the enlargement of the East. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Find out what the Easter enlargement will cost!]] What has actually happened since Mr Mečiar decided to put the nuclear power plant into operation? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Say this to Mrs. Stoisits! Tell her what the Easter enlargement costs!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] What efforts has the Federal Government made after the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power station? How important is it to you to learn about it? You do not do it, and therefore you should not mention this, as I believe, very dubious reference to the unity, namely to this five-party resolution request, in this regard. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22435	Mr. Dr. Graf! They have spoken, but the blockage time of the liberal club is exhausted. Therefore, your word message cannot be answered. [[Abg. Mr Graf: on the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "The free speech of the free representative"...!]] Please put to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22478	Mr President. Today's debate has shown the importance of speaking time for the free mandate of the free Member. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Two Green Members could not even justify their own request at first reading because they were no longer available to speak. The use of the Rules of Procedure in restricting the free mandate is covered by the Rules of Procedure, but, as I believe, in the exceptional case. I request the allocation of speaking time on this important subject in order to be able to carry out my mandate, my free mandate as part of the free speech of a Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22517	Mr. Dr. Graf! At the beginning of this meeting, the blockage time set for today has been decided entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure. It shall therefore be binding for the entire session. I can't take it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22532	Although the blockage period has been set in accordance with the rules of procedure, in this case, as has become evident today, the free rights of the honourable Member, namely the rights of speech. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Does he want to make a debate on the Rules of Procedure now that he has no more speaking time?]] It has also been decided against the will of the liberals, and this must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22571	Deputies! It is generally known how the last reform of the Rules of Procedure, which also provides for the possibility of blockage time fixing, has been decided. Of course, you have the right to be politically criticised at all times. However, I would ask you, at this meeting, to accept that this Rules of Procedure have been decided to carry out the sitting accordingly and have also been carried out. There is now no more word message. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 989/A to the Constitutional Committee. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22604	The agenda is now exhausted, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on a number of motions for deadlines. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Mrs Dr. Brinek! Mr President, you will be able to say that after the vote. We shall first vote on the request by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the Government Template 1522 of the Supplements to a Federal Act amending the Cable and Satellite Broadcasting Act, a period of time until 30. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 1022/A (E) by Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades concerning the abolition of political pension and settlement privileges until 23. ==References====External links== [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ and ÖVP, at the Greens as well as at the Liberal Forum]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Peter and Comrades, the Economic Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 816/A) by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades concerning a federal law on the pursuit of commercial activities, Commercial Law 1998, a period of until 19. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22690	I would also like to point out that in today's sitting, self-employed applications were tabled 1023/A to 1034/A. Questions 5823/J to 5886/J were also raised. Finally, a request from Mr Haigermoser has been made to the President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00161_d7e22713	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I announce the date of the next meeting, I would like to make another statement on the debate today on the first four items on the agenda. In the course of this debate, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé used the following wording to address Mr Leikam: "And I also suspect that he should be drunk, for otherwise he could never come to such an expression." Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka called for an order. I didn't give a call for order. However, I would ask you not to draw the wrong conclusion that I approve of such behaviour. I would ask you to refrain from making such statements in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr Leikam should draw your attention to this!]] They do not serve the reputation of the House. In addition, I believe we should respect the minimum of mutual recognition that is essential for this House. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you considered Mr Leikam's protocol?]] The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 24. March 1999, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
