ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3085	Ladies and gentlemen! I open – at the agreed time – the 174. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 173. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and I have the following reports on preventions for today's meeting: by Mr Jung, Mr Helmut Moser, Mr Schaffenrath, Mr Schwimmer and Mr Aumayr. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3119	At the beginning of the meeting, the current hour will be on the subject: "No sending of Austrian troops under NATO command to Kosovo" First of all, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has been mentioned as the first signatory of the request. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Madam Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3149	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For almost a decade now, we have been confronted with conflicts in the Balkans region, which have begun to make political decisions by the Belgrade regime, with the decisions to limit the autonomy of Yugoslav sub-publics – as happened in Kosovo in 1989 – and subsequently linked to the military actions that we had to experience. It is now necessary – ten years after – to complain that the warning signs have not led to appropriate political actions that have not politically supported the peaceful resistance of Kosovo Albanians, the free media, non-nationalist journalists, through the years and years – all this is now history! But it has been noted by all that in the area of this non-military support the forces of peace have not been done enough. I hope that a lesson has been learned in Kosovo for future conflicts, for future threats to human rights from the situation in the Balkans. And I hope – I long for it! – that Austria will also follow even more determined initiatives for the benefit of threatened peoples, such as the Kurdish people, in favour of Tibetans and Tibetans, than has been the case in the past. With regard to Kosovo, it is precisely now, I believe, that there is a need for extreme political prudence and sensitivity. In some cases, the debate has been carried out with extreme interruptions. It has been assumed that those who do not grab hold of the weapons would tolerate injustice, look away, not take sufficient stand against human rights violations – although you know how much these arguments were wrong, however much they were wrong in relation to Austria, because that Austria and the Austrian population never looked away, we know! The question we have to ask ourselves today is: Who can make what contribution in what situation? – This question is still up-to-date! And I note that in my opinion, the Austrian Federal Government is still not working properly enough on this issue. What is the situation in Kosovo now? – It has been since the 10th century. The UN resolution was adopted on 15 June. So what originally failed, which clearly made the use of NATO forces illegal, is now at least as a framework decision. Nevertheless: De facto has given NATO the UN a very wide-ranging free space, because it would not be possible at present. De facto, it is NATO, which is now a winner in Kosovo. Those who saw the pictures of them on television yesterday and also heard the comments can understand what is happening in Kosovo. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you also seen the pictures of the mass graves?]] – Yes, Mr Scheibner, I have seen the pictures of the graves in the mass, and I therefore, at the beginning of my statements, highlighted the need to defend the beginnings – and more strongly in the future than neutral Austria! They know that there are unfortunately the beginnings of similar crimes in some regions of the world! I am waiting for an initiative by the Federal Government in connection with Kurdistan tomorrow – it would have the support of this whole house, I believe – which is long overdue to avoid similar things so that we will not be faced with mass graves again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For Kosovo, however, the question now arises: How do you get from a very, very fragile ceasefire, which is injured every day – by the hedgers, by the little squirrels of all kinds – how do you get a real peace from this partly already holed ceasefire? And what can be the contribution of Austria to this? I believe that it is not compatible with the neutrality and historical role of Austria in the Balkans, even in the last ten years, if Austria agrees with the victors' calls, rather than now acting as a neutral mediator, as an architect of peace. If you've seen the pictures on TV, you know what's happening there now: It is not a question of disarming the UůK, which is necessary for a stable peace, but it is – how should it be different because of the emotionality of the war events – that the NATO troops are instigated with the winners, with the UůK. Now it is the Serbian civilian population – including victims, not causers of this aggression – that flees in crowds and confronts an uncertain fate. If it is the objective of neutral Austria to re-establish multicultural co-existence, this is not a step forward towards a sustainable peace order. That is why I believe that despite the decision of the 10. June cannot send Austrian troops to Kosovo in accordance with the Austrian neutrality – not only because it is a risk, because all, including those working for NGOs, that is, non-governmental organisations, in the service of human rights, in the service of humanitarian aid, but also because the history of Austria is burdened in this particular region, because we are no longer regarded as neutral, but as party, because we have taken sides for the one side; that is something that is certainly no longer in line with Austrian neutrality. In addition, the steps to be taken now, namely, that of a possible further intervention of Austrian soldiers in combat acts, on the part of the larger government partner, are obviously to be taken by Parliament to ensure that Parliament is at most informed. For media comments from the Federal Chancellor, see: We have time, we do not have to deal with Parliament at all! – I ask But you are, above all, the Social Democratic Members – for you know that this legislative period is about to end, you know that the creation of a genuine agreement on this is only possible for a short period of time –: Are your announcements on the posters to secure Austrian neutrality only of so recent stock that you say, in the summer, that the Federal Government will already decide? Will there perhaps be a telephone call from the members of the Standing Subcommittee of the Main Committee? Ladies and gentlemen! The real creation of an agreement on this – and you know it exactly – is now no longer possible! I therefore note: Austrian soldiers are being put on a very, very high risk, a risk that is particularly high due to Austria's party acceptance in the past. Austria is no longer seen as a neutral mediator there, but Austria has integrated itself into the choir of the victors. Above all, I regret what social democracy is about, and I am concerned that the announcements on the posters to ensure neutrality – that is to say, fair negotiations with Parliament, to hold a serious agreement with the main committee – were apparently only announcements on posters that were not worth the paper on which they were printed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3197	I should now like to ask Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister to comment on the subject of the current hour. In this case too, the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3218	Mr President. High house! We have spent months before the conflict is over, trying to find a peaceful solution – I do not think I need to emphasize it here. ==References== In March 1999, when bombardments began on Yugoslavia and Kosovo, war-related conflicts – which must be said to have been called for – both military and civilian – in Yugoslavia. In the meantime, in the context of the European Union, within the framework of the Community of States - I only call Kofi Annan and the UN - we have always been committed to a peaceful solution. It is not right, Mrs Petrovic, that a UN resolution was not wanted. Everyone wanted a UN resolution! However, the problem of the lack of unanimity in the UN Security Council was that two permanent Security Council members had made the status of such a resolution under Chapter 7 dependent on the agreement of Belgrade. Through the efforts of Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, through those Viktor Chernomyrdins and Strobe, in the background, ten days ago, such an agreement was reached to the principles of the G8 and the world community in Belgrade. These principles are not new, however, but they could have been accepted equally well in March, February, January of this year or autumn last year. Belgrade, however, was not ready to do so at the time, and therefore two permanent UN Security Council members were not prepared to adopt a resolution. The situation is now – thank God! – amended: There is UN Resolution 1244, under Chapter VII, in which the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia demands the immediate and verifiable termination of the violence application, as well as the complete and rapid withdrawal of all – I emphasize: all! – military police units and paramilitary forces. In order to achieve this, there is an international security presence, the KFOR is intended to step in. An international security organisation and presence in Kosovo is thus expressly authorised. The compromise was that there is an Annex to this resolution, but that is part of this resolution and that is also pointed out. In this Annex 2, item 4 of this resolution, an international security presence with substantial NATO participation is addressed under a uniform command and control, which must be authorised to create a safe environment for all people in Kosovo in order to facilitate the safe return to their homes of all displaced refugees. NATO is the only military organization with the necessary know-how and command structures to carry out these very, very difficult tasks and also command a force of over 50,000 men. It is therefore logical that SACEUR, NATO's command structure, assumes overall responsibility for the assigned troops of the operation. Austria is already a partner of NATO on the 15th. In February 1999, it was officially asked whether it was in principle willing to participate in such a possible multinational peace-making effort. ==References====External links== In March, the Commission adopted a basic decision to participate. We're 9 then. In June – officially and formally – on the occasion of an EAPC meeting, NATO partner country was informed of the Joint Guardian operating plan. Like other 30 countries, Austria has given its basic consent to such a commitment. On Tuesday, i.e. yesterday, within the Federal Government, we decided to prepare the planning and budget costs for such use. Such a thing takes a few weeks for it to be developed until logistics stands; then volunteers must be recruited. It will therefore take about two to three months for such an operation to actually start. We anticipate, for example, a Batallion-strong infantry quota, equipped with the PANDUR-type team transport tanks, and the security, telecommunications and sanitation elements – total: 450 to 500 people – to be sent in the first six months. We have made the necessary budget decisions yesterday; these will be decided by Parliament this week by means of the corresponding budget law – that is, no mention of anything being played by Parliament. As soon as we know exactly where our soldiers are being used on the part of the command structures, which is the specific task, the Federal Government will, of course, take a decision in the Council of Ministers, which will then be submitted to the National Council within the next two weeks. The National Council is still working full until then; by the way, it is fully operational throughout the summer through the main committee. It is therefore acceptable, as has been said, that within the next two weeks such a decision will be taken in the Federal Government and will of course be presented to the National Council. The current planning looks like we Austrians in the German zone, within the framework of a brigade led by Germany, in which the Netherlands and other countries are likely to participate, are fulfilling our tasks in accordance with the FOREIGN concept. That means: Monitoring, security and support tasks, but not fighting for peace enforcement. You, Mrs Petrovic, have accused me of being partial. – I say: Yes, I am party, Austria was party, the population as well as the Federal Government. We have always used ourselves, especially in order to resolve the Kosovo conflict, for something: for the threatened people, for the displaced and for human rights. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I therefore also see the current peace commitment of 30 countries – including NATO and non-NATO members – "promising" from the UN Security Council, as such a solidarity commitment to the protection of people, with people for me – and for all of us hopefully! – the Kosovars are the same as the members of other ethnic groups, especially the Serbs. I will also tell you: I am also party in that – I like it, and I say it quite openly here – when I have been working for months to brand not Yugoslavia and "the Serbs", but a very specific leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, the communist dictators in Belgrade must be branded – not "the Serbs"! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In the sense of this partyity, Austria is the first country to hold a European conference on the "other Yugoslavia", a conference to begin on Friday in Vienna, in which exactly these votes for democracy, for the market economy, for European integration of Yugoslavia, for tolerance, for good neighborhoods, for respect also for minorities in its own country will be heard. It will be a highly-occupied conference: with Carl Bildt, also with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and with a number of opposition leaders. I am very glad that the President of the National Council and I will open this conference.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3350	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. . Since this is a procedural and regulatory issue, I am glad that it is clear that a commitment without reference to the main committee is not in question or is not planned. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are uniformly 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3381	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We want to note that after all the war weeks and the horrors committed, great progress has been made in Yugoslavia and Kosovo. Great progress has been made because Russia is back on board because Russia is integrated and integrated into the political process and process, and because the United Nations is back in play and, I hope, is also on the ball. I would like to expressly hold on to this in advance and introductoryly. Under these conditions there are real opportunities that the ceasefire can really stabilize itself, but the use of the KFOR troops in its orientation is inconceivable and could also result in others. And it's important to us to show this here and today. This commitment could be stabilizing; we hope so, and we expect it to be. It could crystallize itself as peace-keeping; that is good, but then it is necessary for new mandates to be awarded by the United Nations after a corresponding period of time. Then it is also necessary that the corresponding empowerments be clearly granted, but not to NATO and not to Russia. It would also be necessary to create conditions which would not only allow Austria to participate as a neutral state, but which would in fact create the conditions for international aid organisations to work on a basis which is the prerequisite for their work, namely an impartial basis, a basis which is without party to individual states or a war-leading alliance and which allows for actual assistance for the victims on the ground. This is a possible effect of this KFOR deployment. However, there is also the possibility and the danger that this commitment will develop towards a ground war, a ground war that NATO is leading, and above all – and these are yesterday's television images that startle – the UůK, which is obviously not prepared to be disarmed. No one is obviously willing to do this disarmament and demilitarization at the moment. That's worrying, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This means nothing more than what we have already seen on television, namely new movements of escape, movements of escape of some equally innocent people. This means nothing more than what we actually wanted to prevent, a further, slow out crystallization of a terrible war. Minister! As regards party voting, you have here pointed out in your reply: It has, of course, been the prerequisite for all the efforts that we, you and the other states have made. The condition is the party for human rights, the condition was the party to the protection of the people. But we do not mean that when we speak of partyism in international operations. I think that's important. We must see that, after a phase of consolidation, which is now necessary – admittedly now necessary – but to a far greater extent will be necessary, civil assistance measures, impartial assistance measures, assistance measures by international organisations that have been created to do so by all the countries of the world – in addition to this task – will be carried out. That is what I ask you, Minister: Where will Austria stay? Where will the efforts of Austria remain? – I always see – this is our criticism – an "overall" effort when it comes to sending troops to a dubious commitment. For it is still not clear whether the troops are the ones that secure and create peace, or whether the troops that also carry out aid measures there. It is worrying that those troops who have waged war, that alliance that has waged war, are now also those who are supposed to bring help on the ground. We don't. We know that. This can only be done with a accompanying measure, with a simultaneous action by impartial aid organisations. As a neutral state, Austria is called upon to contribute significantly to the fact that the UNHCR, the International Red Cross, the OSCE and all other institutions that can really create peace at civil level are here far greater than what you have said and made known.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3439	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3460	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My first word is not what is involved in the current debate. The first word has to be that we want to create peace and a decent home for people in this region, to the United Nations' efforts to create the best possible success, to say that it is not all right to have further devastations and murders associated with the withdrawal of the Serbian troops, and that we cannot accept that parts of the UK refuse to surrender their weapons. Our goal is to quickly create peace and a viable home for the people of Kosovo. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] To the current debate. We must not mix certain things. The commitment we are talking about is not an action of NATO, but it is one of the largest and most comprehensive operations of the United Nations since its existence. In the relevant Security Council resolution, paragraph 9 defines the international security presence, i.e. the KFOR deployment, which is further described in the Annex. Paragraph 11 describes – and this is also very important – the intended civil transitional management. It has already been realized what my honourable predecessor just asked for, because, in accordance with this paragraph, it is clear that not the military institutions, but precisely those organizations you rightly referred to, will have the saying under the auspices of the United Nations. This civil transitional administration, UNOMIK, is composed of the transitional administration itself under the leadership of the United Nations, from the Humanitarian Affairs Department under UNHCR leadership, from the institutional building under OSCE leadership, and from the reconstruction under EU leadership. Some parts will also be taken over by the Council of Europe. So all those organizations you mentioned are responsible for the civil part! The international security presence is a United Nations action in which Austria and still more than 30 States will participate. NATO will be enabled in the implementation. There are no fears of contact with NATO. We also work with her in the "Partnership for Peace". In the case of Bosnia-Herzegovina, it is also the case that NATO is responsible for certain areas. We do not want to cooperate with NATO, but we want this to be done under a United Nations decision, not on the decision of the NATO institutions or on the instructions of the American President. This condition is clear here; therefore, this action is one in which, of course, neutral states can also participate. It is even in line with the tradition of neutral states to participate in such actions of the United Nations. Only at the beginning, in the 1950s, did certain professors – even political opinion went a little in this direction – ask the question: Is it possible to participate as a neutral in United Nations action? – In the meantime, the view has been expressed: Yes, Neutrals are even supposed to participate in United Nations actions, and that is not contrary to neutrality. So it is not the question of neutrality or solidarity?" as it is sometimes kept before us. Austria shows in the United Nations that solidarity and neutrality fit together, that both can be actively practiced together. I hope that the United Nations-led intervention in Kosovo will bring peace back to the Balkans, albeit slowly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3516	The next speaker was Mr Kohl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3537	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1993, the UN has been carrying out the task of peacekeeping in the Balkans. We want Austria to stand up for peace and participate in it. ==References== In May 1993, the Council of Ministers decided to use and send IFOR troops to the Balkans, in broad consensus between all parties. The liberals were also in principle for this at the time. The reason why we sent troops to the bar was also from the politician of the Green Peter Pilz, who urgently called on the world community – Mrs Petrovic, perhaps read this! – finally put an end to injustice in order to protect women from rape, in order to protect human rights in Bosnia. [[Abg. Wabl: But not NATO!]] In the broad consensus of the parties, these troops were sent out at the time. We have always observed several principles: Peacekeeping is a priority, no participation in combat, no use of present-day servants, only the posting of volunteers, concentration of cooperation on transport, monitoring, humanitarian tasks and logistics. Ladies and gentlemen! The legal basis was and is a mandate of the United Nations – including for the current mission of troops. NATO is acting on behalf of the UN: NATO is the military arm of the UN and is accepted worldwide in this role. In NATO's "Partnership for Peace", more than 50 UN members cooperate. It has therefore been replaced by solidarity, in accordance with many of the Social Democrats in this House, worldwide in the field of the UN. Of course, Peter Schieder was right in 1955 in the textbooks: Neutrals must not participate in such solidarity missions. – I can show you the textbook page, as soon as we were UN members, changed and said: If Austria is a member of the UN as a neutral country, UNO must not call on Austria to participate in forced action. - Snails! We've been invited, and we've been there! We have therefore for the first time changed neutrality towards solidarity. And everyone was for it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next step was the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which took place on 1 January. In May of this year it entered into force. With the necessary majority of the Constitution of this House, on the basis of a request from Kostelka/Khol and a report from Kostelka and Khol, we have here in this House for Europe put the Amsterdam Treaty into force in the constitutional order and thus replaced it with solidarity for Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And the neutrality is guaranteed!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true! That's a... against better knowledge!]] I am pleased that this priority of solidarity policy towards neutrality is expressed in the fact that Martin's "glorious advocate of neutrality" was not head of delegation in Strasbourg, but was the representative of a solidarity policy in NATO called Hannes Swoboda. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In October 1997 Hannes Swoboda spoke out for the development of a strong – I quote – "European component of NATO"; consistently continued, a security policy was at the end, which was also called: militaryly capable Europe. If Austria wants to join this solidarity system, it is hardly possible to join NATO, says Swoboda. It's still going on. For neutrality, Swoboda stated that this "lost its base today". In place of neutrality, a comprehensive "solidar pact" of the EU states should be put in place. Accession to NATO – still quoted – is "almost avoidable" if Austria is to join a solidarity system at the end of which is a security-political and thus militaryly operational Europe. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Who was that?]] Finally, the new Head of Delegation Swoboda, who replaces the "flooding neutrality fighter" Martin says: "Today are NATO tanks for the protection of minority rights and human rights." There is a common responsibility for peace in Europe. "And this is, among other things, secured by NATO," says the Head of Delegation of the Social Democrats in the European Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I am pleased that you have decided in a certain direction to this direction. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I would just like to hear it from your party-chairing climate.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3643	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3664	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! One can quite hear from German Chancellor climate a praise for NATO and the importance in this area. Foreignly, when it comes to showing flag, when it comes to not being outside the state community, Mr. Federal Chancellor climate praises NATO, as last one at the anniversary in Washington. So the situation is quite different. Even when it comes to supporting NATO bombings in Kosovo, the Federal Chancellor is of course everywhere. The same applies when it came to sending Austrian soldiers and groundmen to Albania and putting them under a NATO command, Mr. Schieder – in this respect there was no UN mandate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But under the OSCE!]] – But stop the OSCE, that was under the command of NATO, a warring alliance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: OSCE! OSCE!]] And with all the interpretations on neutrality, Mr. Schieder: Show me those international lawyers who say that it is justified for a neutral country to put their own soldiers under the command of a warring alliance! [[Abg. Arbitrator: OSCE! OSCE! Treaty of Paris! Helsinki! Discussiond here!]] This right-wing man will show me once, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you don't take it seriously yourself. I'll tell you: Austria has produced a sad spectacle in dealing with this conflict. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You should know that was the OSCE!]] The whole of the state community, and especially Europe, has really been working in great unity over the last few weeks and months to end this conflict. Thank God, in the end, has led to the pressure of this community of nations that Milošević had to divert, that at least the weapons remain silent, that the deportations cease to have murder and torture to end. But it was not Austria that has been involved in the negotiations. It was Finland, the non-committal Finland, which made a real contribution to peace there. While the state community has tried to achieve peace with great unity, Austria has put in place a really despicable spectacle by using, Mr Schieder, and your group, the fear and concern of the Austrians from war and from uncertainty for your election campaign. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] That was your contribution to peacekeeping! Today we are discussing the need for Austrian soldiers to go to Kosovo, which is to be 450 out of 15 000 who are currently there. I really wonder what sense it has. Why must Austria... – Mr colleague, you were for the war force, you were in favour of Austrian groundmen going to Albania under NATO command. [[Abg. Arbitrators: So for the war force would you have been, for the peace force are you not?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are in principle in favour of Austria's contribution, but that must be properly prepared. [[Abg. Arbitrators: They want to be at war, but not in peace!]] – Mr. Schieder, you are so nervous. [[Abg. Arbitrator: I'm not nervous!]] I know why! This shows that you have a bad conscience. And you rightly have a bad conscience because you are constantly telling the Austrians the untruth about reality in security policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are not in principle opposed to the use, but, Mr Arbitrator, a commitment is properly prepared, the staff must be recruited accordingly, the material must be made available, and the financial resources must also be secured. And here you explain to me, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, how this is supposed to be secured, at a time when, as we know, the Austrian federal army is in the end human, material and financial, we have a two-class army and the last device – literally the last tent! – must be used for foreign use, so that we in Austria no longer know how to organise training. If today it is said that Austrian soldiers are to go into this operation with wheel tanks, Mr. Schieder, then I have to say, I still have in my ear the words of Mr. Defence Minister, who, on the occasion of the post-exploitation of wheel tanks, meant that all of this has to be re-planned now, because these wheel tanks are not suitable for use for Austria. But are they suitable for a dangerous use in Kosovo?- Oh, my God! There is even a directive that the soldiers must not stand behind the cannon when this wheel tank is in motion, because it is life-threatening because there seems to be structural defects. Ladies and gentlemen! We would like you to discuss these things before, namely whether we are at all able to deal with such interventions or whether it is not that way that we are endangering the lives and health of our soldiers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That would be irresponsible, too! For prestige reasons, you want to be active anywhere in the world. Two thousand soldiers are engaged abroad, but that is the wrong way. We are prepared for such uses, but well-prepared and taught accordingly. Everything else would be irresponsible
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3828	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3850	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What is it about? The current hour was titled "No Sending of Austrian Forces Under NATO Command to Kosovo". I say that the Austrian troops will go to Kosovo under a UN mandate, and I am pleased that there is now at least one stage in Kosovo: that there is no chance of peaceful return of refugees, that reconstruction can begin there, and that a long process will finally begin, so that the people living in Kosovo will have a chance to live together peacefully, to rebuild their country and to lead to a peaceful future. This requires that the military side of this problem be kept stable and peaceful under international supervision and under international mandate, following NATO's bombing attacks. And this is actually only possible if peace troops are sent to Kosovo under UN mandate. It is a long-standing Austrian tradition to participate in such international operations, provided that the international legal side is secured – and a UN mandate guarantees that! However, this must not be blind to the fact that it has not yet passed and that there can still be problems in the interaction of the different military units in operation there. We know – everyone has observed this with interest and in part with concern – that Russia, which is grateful to God, has made rapid advances on the future situation, even with reference to the UN mandate. As the UN mandate explicitly provides for the peacekeeping forces to be under a common command, another process will have to be carried out in order to make this joint command, this "unified command", workable even under UN mandate. Austria will be well advised to observe this process carefully. For one thing would not be helpful: if, after peace had finally come to Kosovo, the UN mandate would not be positive, but if it would lead to new conflicts, in this case between individual quotas within the framework of this UN mandate. There, too, Austrian foreign policy would be invited to do something and to participate in the discussions that will undoubtedly be necessary to eliminate jealousy, anxiety, fear, prestige, because Austria, when sending a quota, does not do so because it wants to operate Austrian foreign policy. This is clear to all parties involved. This is precisely the functionality of such a country as Austria's participation, if it applies, in favour of peace. Austrian military units must be free of suspicion that they are being used there for their own power and must undoubtedly be able to demonstrate that they have been sent for peace-political reasons. However, Mr Scheibner has already said that, in Austria too, a number of conditions must be met for sending good conscience to Austrian units in Kosovo. The question of equipment has already been addressed, including the question of recruitment. That is why it will be some time until Austrian soldiers are actually sent to Kosovo. And we will certainly have to look at the situation politically again at the time when these troops are being set in progress. What we are about today does not have to remain the same until September. That's why I'm saying: Those who take Austrian peace policy seriously, those who do not have an incentive, and already because of the fact that NATO – of course NATO! – there sets out essential quotas and sees everything negative, and must be in favour of Austria contributing under joint command and UN mandate in order to stabilise peace in Kosovo. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3899	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3942	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question raised today for Austria is can we make a contribution, a solidarity contribution to peace, or do we contribute to escalation or at least destabilization in a situation that is very, very critical? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you keep it with fungus?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Already on the cover page of today's issue of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" you can read: "Cooled bodies and revenge murder of Serbs." "For fear of the retaliation of Kosovo Albanians, at least 37,000 Serbs have left Kosovo so far." The injustice of every war is not the motive – some governments start a war of louder motives – which is unjust in the wars, that there are no bridges of criminals in Serbia and that there were no hospitals in Serbia that belonged to the criminals, there were no roads, and there were no factories belonging to the criminals, but there was a country bombarded. This inaccuracy is the injustice and misery of this dispute. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! You say you're party to this dispute. Of course, I was aware that you will then say that you take party to human rights, you take party for the displaced, you take party for those who have been raped, murdered or circumcised in their rights of freedom. Of course, every person here in this House and, as I mean, every Member here in this House. The question is: What means do we use? – Fortunately, there is now a UN mandate. This required serious political outrages before. You know very well that the left handing of the power of Russia was a serious mistake. Even now, in the post-effects, we see that Russia's lack of integration has raised a very critical situation in Kosovo. Mr Petrovic has already mentioned that there is no disarming of the UAK fighters. I read in the paper that only the UK has been prevented from building roadblocks there and decides for itself who is allowed to flee and who is not allowed to leave Kosovo and who is not. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in Kosovo is anything but that a peacekeeping force in Austria could secure peace there. They risk the life of Austrian soldiers there with a poorly prepared – and I am, in exception, right, Mr Scheibner. In a situation – and this is for grabbing on the images on television – in which winners enter and continue to carry allies, Austrian soldiers are now supposed to help secure security and secure peace. And you know very well, Mr Minister – you are also among those foreign politicians who have taken a clear position in this war for certain acts of war – that you have thus clearly and clearly left the ground of neutrality and the constitution. The same has been done by our Federal Chancellor, who then led the great election campaign for neutrality in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this situation, our political leadership abroad clearly took a position, took a party, not only for the displaced – I assume or assume, Minister – but also for a war without a UN mandate, for a bombardment to a country that has been rebombed for decades. – I say: Austria should send its tradition in solidarity to its soldiers, who are well-trained, where they can secure peace, such as at the Golan and in Cyprus and, if necessary, the situation, also in Kosovo. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e3990	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. I'll give him the word. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4011	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl, you have to leave the church in the village and give the truth the honor. That is why we can maintain that our soldiers are on the move in the service of peace, and we are very likely to make a solid contribution so that democracy and security can be maintained in this restless part of Europe. That is why our full support is given to this commitment to peace. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it was said that the German army was at the end of human resources, financial, material, had problems with capacity in foreign operations and had reached the border of the feasible, it may already be stated in this context that the German army has proved itself in every foreign use. I am convinced that this Kosovo commitment will also work. [[Abg. Scheibner: Advertisers are looking for people!]] – Mr Scheibner, the ads have to do with the voluntary nature, and I will come to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to point out that Austria, with more than 1,200 soldiers, is involved in United Nations peacekeeping and humanitarian operations. The upcoming deployment of the 450 Austrian soldiers in Kosovo is also taking place within the framework of an international peace force based on a UN mandate. The participation of Austria is important and right! Our soldiers participate exclusively on a voluntary basis in all these foreign operations. It is also gratifying that the vast majority of the Austrian population is in favour of this Kosovo deployment. Our task is to secure peace, and the goal must be to ensure that people in Kosovo can live in peace, security and stability in the future. This can only be achieved through a political solution. Therefore, as a neutral state, we can play a credible and active role. Of course, solidarity with the international community is very much compatible with neutrality and is not contrary to what Mr Khol, for example, wanted to do here today. Ladies and gentlemen! But it must also be ensured that all political decisions for this commitment are taken in good time, since I give Mr Scheibner the right to do so. We need these early determinations so that good and careful preparation is possible. I also believe that sufficient time should be available for the selection, motivation and training of these soldiers. It is necessary to prepare the soldiers for this difficult operation and to provide comprehensive information on the operation. Therefore, all services of the Federal Government are called upon to support this commitment optimally. There must be no delay in, for example, disbursing the funds, as was the case recently in Albania. As you know, the reason for the delay was that foreign remuneration is not handled through the Federal Accounting Centre, but through its own office of the Federal Army. This always leads to complications, delays. For this reason, experts believe that the remuneration should be carried out centrally through the Bundesrechenzentrum. And I very much hope that this suggestion will be taken into account. Finally, a clear word on the use. The plan provides that the Austrian quota should be used exclusively for monitoring and protection tasks, so that our soldiers will not participate in combat operations! It is a commitment to peace, and this commitment to peace is in full agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4053	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Mock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few comments on the comments made by the representatives of the Green Group. You once again meant that you should have done something earlier, before starting with the resistance to a possible aggression. – This has happened very well, and even at times when Belgrade has still officially become known for autonomy, we have initiated a four-step procedure against the Belgrade government in accordance with the CSCE order for the protection of human rights. In the first stage we were supported by twelve states, but we were not satisfied with the answer, in a second stage we remained alone. By the way, we have also started such a procedure against Turkey. If you argue, you should always quote both sides. Mrs Kammerlander has said in a committed way that great progress has now been made. The Russians are there, and the UN is there too. Is that the main concern? Progress has been made because aggression has been fought because now there is a chance for a ceasefire and the killing ceases. These are the great progress that has been made! The other is just a means. Not the Russians and the UN are the most important, but the people there, the fact that they can return. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our orientation always went to be on the side of the victims and not on the side of the aggressors. This has also been clearly clarified here. I am grateful for the consistent continuation of this foreign policy line by our current foreign minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Solidarity is a positive assessment of you, but not if it becomes really dangerous. Of course, the military question is the very delicate question, but we believe that we must show solidarity by all means: Solidarity with political means, with diplomatic intervention against aggression and, if necessary, with military intervention. You do not believe that Milošević would have stopped selling the Albanians to hundreds of thousands if you had said that tomorrow there will be no more bombings? He could've shown it before. [[Abg. Wabl: One day you woke up and said you condemn him!]] He has already worked on the "Hufeisenplan" during the negotiations in Rambouillet, colleague Wabl, which has provided for the complete expulsion of all Albanians. You have to take that seriously. [[Abg. Wabl: We took it seriously! You've taken party for the UůK!]] We have taken party for the victims of this aggression! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] The color and the side may not matter! Victims are victims and always deserve our support. And Aggressor is Aggressor, no matter where he comes from, as he is called, which political mark he has. It must be fought, as the UN Charter says: "by all means", with all means. [[==References====External links== Dr Gredler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, I think, we also need to take the great development a little more seriously. We also signed a lot. I am thinking, for example, of the European security concept. In the context of the Amsterdam Treaty, we have declared that the new members should strengthen the Union's internal cohesion and its ability to act effectively in foreign and security policy. We have stated that at the time of accession we will be able to cooperate fully and actively in a common foreign and security policy. I ask, Minister of State: Where is the active contribution from us? . He could not be delivered because we could not agree on the joint report. It is here that the new Member States, with the accession process, fully and unconditionally adopt all the objectives of the Treaty and the relevant declarations attached to it – without reservation and in full, we accept the concept already available – that the new Member States are ready and able to support the Union's policies in force in the various areas at the time of their accession. These are joint statements, which are parts of the protocols to a Treaty. How long will it take for us to be asked if we are in agreement, ladies and gentlemen? Austria has always been a very contractual state. We have a qualified interest in ensuring that legal obligations are properly respected. This is a growing commitment to solidarity. We need her. Only this growing solidarity has now helped in Kosovo, only in other cases will it help in other conflicts. For the first time, we have the opportunity to return displaced people – a million displaced people. You've been tied up. I hope that the opportunity will be used to show that it makes sense to make progress.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4153	The next speaker is Mr Holger Bauer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4174	High house! Federal Minister! With all the brilliant word bells from the ranks of the two government fractions and from the government bank around the solidarity neutrality, for solidarity instead of neutrality and for a solidarity of peace, or whatever you used in beautiful words here, you should be clear about four things if Austria actually sends its own quota, its own military quota in Kosovo: First: Mr Federal Minister, this project, or this action, is not a pure mission to maintain a peace which has already been established. That's not what it's called today, Peace-keeping mission, but it has a very strong character of a Peace-making mission like it was in Somalia at that time. The peace must first really be made. It is still being fought there, shot, especially on the marching troops quotas, as the last days have shown. There is therefore no one to rule out – and this is the first consequence you should draw, and the first knowledge you should gain from it – that, if Austria participates in this operation, Austrian soldiers can also be killed. Secondly, Due to the personnel resources of the Austrian federal army, it will not be possible to send only professional soldiers and time-consuming persons to the crisis centre. That should be clear, too. Austrian military soldiers will have to participate! Thirdly, As in Albania, the Austrian soldiers will again be under a NATO command. What else? I am saying this, therefore, to the address of the ladies and gentlemen neutrality-safer of the Austrian Social Democracy, who have struck an entire election campaign with this – I know, I would be called an order, therefore I say – untruth. Fourth: The use in Kosovo will take years. Years! The German defense minister Sharping says there will be at least three. That is to say, this commitment will cost Austrian taxpayers billions over the years, those billions that we have been missing for the year and day for the appropriate equipment of the Austrian federal army, for upgrading, for equipment... [[Complaints with the liberals]] My God, he's shaking his head! [[in the direction of the Abg. Wabl]] This has not yet been said to the left that the Austrian federal army suffers from chronic financial outpouring. [[Abg. Scheibner: You want to get rid of it anyway!]] It is those billions that we are missing in order to equip the Austrian federal army accordingly for such operations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From these four points of view, I can only draw the following summary: They intend to send Austrian soldiers to a dangerous adventure because they are not equipped to do so. You will and must understand that we Freemans will not support you in this adventure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4225	Mr Vice-Chancellor has spoken. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4246	High house! I would perhaps like to give some information because some of the questions have been asked or some theses have been put up, which one has to do with from the government side. Firstly, the lack of Russian integration. It was always a trio, consisting of an EU negotiator, Wolfgang Petritsch, an American, Chris Hill, and Ambassador Boris Majorski, who led the peace negotiations that took place in Paris and Rambouillet. I have on Friday – by the way, exactly during this time; Thursday was UN mandate, bombing, the beginning of the withdrawal of the Serbs and the Balkan Conference in Cologne and in the evening I flew to Moscow – with Chernomyrdin and with the Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov for a long time and, as I believe, very interesting discussions were conducted. In the evening I met the Albanian leader Hashim Thaqi, the leader of the UůK, in Vienna and talked to him again for a very long time, two to three hours. The truth is that, in February and March, the Russians were not prepared to make those comments on which Yeltzin and Chernomyrdin have now gone through. I am particularly grateful to Yeltzin and Chernomyrdin for this way, for this step, because he was not popular in Russia. One hundred percent of the Duma, and one hundred percent of public opinion. This was a highly political personal decision by Yelzin and Chernomyrdin, who deserve highest respect for it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] But I also say what Chernomyrdin personally said about my question, whether they made some mistakes with Milutinović et cetera during these long discussions in February and March with the Serbs. The answer was: Yeah, we haven't been very clear at the time. This is the truth of a man who has essentially negotiated and made possible peace. I do not want to hide this either, so that we do not believe that we have already solved things with a commitment to human rights. We must also have the courage to take the step from theory to practice, Mr Wabl, even if you are just going. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] Second question: Risk. Yes – you have to say that honestly – the current situation is, of course, risky, and that is not a normal peace-keeping commitment. It would be a fatal mistake if we were to say that this was, so to speak, a mowed meadow, that is a riskless use. No, no, no, This is one of the most difficult United Nations operations. [[Abg. Wabl: Neither is Cyprus riskless!]] And I'll tell you quite openly: I am glad that, when we participate, Austrian soldiers are then under a functioning command – and that is the NATO as the only structure that can do that – because that also means security for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Do not forget that we are in the middle of the most delicate phase! Half of the Serbian security forces – some 20,000 soldiers – have already withdrawn, 15,000 out of 50,000 international soldiers have already marched in, but we do not have the full strength yet, and it is still the UůK there. It is also clear that we are now discovering hundreds of war crimes every day. In the last two days, the graves have been found by 300 massive Albanians. Everyone can imagine what is going on in the souls or in the hearts and brains of those people who read something like this. This is an unheard-of critical situation, and I think it is absolutely necessary that, in this delicate situation, an international peacekeeping force should go into this area and that the Albanians and the Serbs should not be left to their fate, because then the revenge would be bloody – even more bloody. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third point: Yeah, the thing costs money. For years we will be present there and will have to pay for the community of states. But, of course, the Second World War also cost a lot of money, and the Americans and others also helped us at that time. I therefore think it absolutely correct and fair that we are now also ready to give similar things. But we have to prepare for it, and that is why I think it is a bit strange which problem it should be that we wait one or two weeks before we present the full mandate to the House. This is necessary to ensure that we have a well-prepared presence, on which we have called for a very important condition that the German army must also receive any schilling that costs this use, so that the German army, already bleeding out, does not suffer yet another damage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last sentence – perhaps I have misunderstood it, but I should like to make it clear here, Mr Scheibner: There will be no basic defence service in Kosovo. [[Abg. Scheibner: In Albania they are!]] Anyone who is there is due to voluntary reports and knows that of course he takes on a risky job – just like a red-crust helper, just like anyone else who helps humanitarianly in this region – and I already thank all those who make themselves available for it. [[Abg. Scheibner: But they are groundmen!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4338	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4360	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the sense of time economy, I wanted to be at the speaker's desk early. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing a problem that we hope will resolve within the next few hours. The problem of the issue of sending Austrian troops under the tutel of a Security Council decision is that the command is currently only being observed by NATO. As soon as Russia can be convinced to take part in an international command, as the Security Council decision provides, we have no problems with it. This means that China's wishes, which it has made a condition for, so to speak, are respected, because these wishes have to be fulfilled, in order to do the same on the one hand, and on the other, to maintain this UN mandate. This is the prerequisite for the activities of the Austrians. As Mr Vice-Chancellor said, 450 to 500 people are needed, and we obviously do not only need a time window of 90 days, as was debated at the outset, but rather a time window of half a year to weld and put together this group, I believe that until then the problems with Russia have long been solved. I also believe that we must be realistic. Of course it is a dangerous commitment, of course, people who volunteer know that it is so dangerous that perhaps one or another will die. God, I'm sorry! At Golan, about one Austrian dies each year. Unfortunately, God!, I must say. Therefore, I think, one should not pretend to ignore it, but openly say: It's a dangerous bet! However, the alternative that the Greens are obviously seeking – although not so pronounced – to create an Austrian zone, I do not think to be the happiest variant. Why? – I cannot imagine that all nations that want to go along with them now and have expressed their interest take over small isolated areas and there guarantee safety and construction. I don't think that would have the effectiveness we need. What we need is to build Kosovo, rebuild the democratic structures in Kosovo, rebuild the judicial system and also the police. Of course, the United Kingdom must be disarmed! There is no question at all that these groups of people – people are always talking about the Ucq, but there are at least four groups within the Ucq, which are very, very difficult to put into a hat – should be disarmed in order to give the civilian population the opportunity to build police structures there. I believe that we are planning an important action in the international sector, and what we could do on the Austrian side would be – and since, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are called upon to really articulate yourself in the bodies accordingly; They are still a member of the Troika by the end of June, and it might be worth breaking their heads over it – to open up an accession perspective for these countries in the Balkans. I think it is extremely important that the Balkan countries know that they are welcome in Europe and that, if they build their society on democratic patterns, we naturally have a place in Europe for them. And we should inform them that we should inform the National Council at the next meeting: Yes, Balkan countries are welcome in Europe. That is why we are making a second round of enlargement, in which they will also have room. I think that we should also agree on a number of other points. I think we should seek intelligent and well thought-out autonomy in Kosovo as an interim solution. I believe that we should continue to provide support in a future democratic Serbia, of course, because society is also shaken there. We want to support what our Liberal colleague, the Vice-President of the Kosovon Parliament, said when he said: We want to be like you, we want to go to the theater, read books, play football, train and work. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] . I am at the conclusion, Mr President. – We want one to see that not the war is our life, but a peaceful one with one another. – Let’s give them a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4415	No further words are available. The current hour is over. - Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4436	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I can refer to a written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4644	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 6412/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mrs Dr Schmidt and Mr Comrades to Mr Bundeskanzler concerning the deposit of a revelation on the security status of Austria. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4668	I would also like to say that Mr Stefan Salzl has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on popular desire to create a Federal Animal Protection Act be set at a time of 12 months. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of This is the template 171 of the Supplements. In this context, there is also a desire to have a brief debate on this deadline request. This will also be done after the discussions on the urgent request. The vote on the request for a deadline will then be taken immediately after this brief debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4695	High house! I have the proposal to sum up points 2 to 4, 5 to 7, 8 to 10, 11 to 14, 15 to 18, 20 to 34, 35 and 36, as well as 37 and 38 of the agenda today. Is there any objection? This is not the case. That is why we shall proceed in this way. I'm going to the agenda now. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4723	I say that the following agreement was drawn up at the Presidential Session on the design and duration of the debates: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" is to be set, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 150 minutes, ÖVP 140 minutes, Free 130 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens every 9 minutes. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 9 minutes!]] - Liberals and Greens have 90 minutes each. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 9 minutes!]] - Ten times nine! The National Council has to decide on this. I therefore ask: On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. This has then been determined unanimously. 1. Point report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (1653): Federal Law amending the General Civil Code, the Marriage Law, the Extraordinary Law, the Civil Procedures Code, the Rules of Procedure and the Criminal Procedure (Reparation Amendment Act 1999 – Revised 1999) (1926)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4774	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not required. That is why we are going into the debate. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Can we wait for the Minister? There is no one there from the Federal Government at all!]] – As I know the Minister for Justice, it can only be a small delay. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek enters the meeting room.]] – I know the Minister of Justice correctly. He's already here. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4810	High house! Mr President. Mr. Minister! In order to be able to conduct a social-political debate – and that is why it is a matter of marital law and the novelle of marriage – we need to address some things clearly in this House too. It must be noted that Austria is still a Catholic country and that the population is largely associated with Christian values. Mrs Fekter! These values still include fidelity and propriety. These values are likely to be forgotten by this government template. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is particularly important to mention in this context that, after a long discussion in the ministry and in the committees, this government template is a compromise in which one has finally followed the feminist spirit of time, which is still on the left. This is not good and not right and will certainly be rejected by the vast majority of the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! In fact, 90 percent of the population do not understand the abolition of the absolute grounds for divorce. However, 90 percent of the population in Austria do not understand the granting of a debt-independent maintenance. It is not acceptable for the guilty to reward the married and the Contractors! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Considering this problem, too, that it is known that in Austria the families live close to the poverty line, I wonder how, if the marriage of a family or a couple is unhappy, one would ultimately want to arrange a debt-independent maintenance at the expense of individuals. I say in this regard that the new system of maintenance will cost the rich in this country who want to divorce little, and that it will make it even more difficult for the poor in this country who want to divorce to be divorced in the event of a broken or broken marriage, because these families can no longer afford to do so. The poor are even more driven to the poverty line. That's the result! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 90 percent of the population also do not understand the sluggish introduction of the principle of devastation rather than the previous principle of indebtedness. We liberals are always on the view that one must alleviate an accident which one can suffer, that one must make legal provisions for entitlement to maintenance or also for pension insurance, but not at the expense of individual in a broken marriage, but for the time being in a social security novel, in which such hardships are excluded from the outset. Then it is no longer necessary to make an unfortunate arrangement at the expense of individuals, as they are to be adopted here today. First of all, social security law must be brought in order, with, of course, the coalition being called for. In addition, it is essential for us that, in connection with the right of divorce, a divorce should be taken into account, which continues to be in the process of completion, which is a modern, acceptable childhood law. We believe from the liberals that the right of the child to both parents must take precedence. It is necessary to establish a system in these relations. The coalition has not been able to present a child's right in the four years of this legislative period and is now gratifying behind country interests. That's not right, that's unfair and unfair to the families! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Children need to be strengthened in terms of parental participation, even in the case of divorce. Sanctions must be imposed in the event that a parent who has the right of custody, as it is today, completely excludes the other former spouse from custody by means of some harassment. You need sanctions for this. In this regard, the legislator is called, but unfortunately God until now inactive. We therefore believe that there are a number of key points which lead us to reject this government proposal. As has already been said, the social security problem must be addressed first. This is to be resolved where it belongs, namely in social security law, before changing the divorce law. Secondly, The absolute reason for divorce, adultery, must be maintained. We are against a debt-indebted maintenance obligation and also against a reasonable maintenance in the event of major indebtedness or equal indebtedness. We believe that it is indeed necessary to finally make a provision that, in the event of an equal debt, only the necessary maintenance to the other spouse can be paid out, but no longer, because that is also in the sense of the families. In conclusion, we want all those involved to remain financially viable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The priority of the contractual disposition in marriage and divorce law, especially in the division of assets, is not realized and is a requirement of the liberals. Finally, in the field of mediation, this new form of a divorce settlement system, as is customary in other countries, we call for a lawyer to be required to inform the individual willful persons of the rights he has in relation to divorce. We believe that this kind of difficult matter – which is often a matter of high financial resources – cannot be done in the psychological and parapsychological sphere. We have always fought for it, and we are always committed to helping the right to break through, and this must be kept first and foremost. The only truer of the rights in Austria, which you still have to defend, is ultimately the lawyer. We therefore believe that this path into mediation, as it is called, is wrong. All in all, we will reject this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4927	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. The clock will be set in 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e4949	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Minister! High house! The political debate on this matrimonial law, divorce law, is characterised by – you will still be told by the following speakers – that it is rejected by the right, by the liberals, because it goes far too far for them, and that criticism comes from the left because it is too little. [[Abg. Gaugg: You decide together!]] This guarantees me that we have created a very balanced novel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You decide together!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This novel was characterized by two basic principles. Firstly, there is the principle of partnership, namely that the marriage of both parts should be made in agreement and balanced partnership. Ladies and gentlemen of all the right! The husband is no longer the head of the family, but both partners have to contribute to the family's well-being together. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Divorce and Commonness!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Divorce and commonness, no one has yet succeeded!]] This principle of partnership applies not only to the division of rights and obligations, but also to the right of maintenance in money. Money, if too little is available, is always a conflict area. It should not be possible to spend it unilaterally and solely by the workers, but the partner who is not in employment also has a certain right to this money. He – most often the woman will be – not only has the right to benefits in kind, but also to money for the maintenance and to the benefit of the family – that he can buy something on his own. The obligation to participate in the acquisition of the other was also maintained – which will certainly still lead to debates today. In times of partnership, it was not understandable for some to say why one simply requires one part by law to cooperate with the other in the acquisition. This is particularly true for commercial businesses, but also – therefore it has been maintained – in farmers' farms. It is true that a farmer who works in the farm of the farmer and is not registered at the farm is not a co-operator. However, she is not an employee or a worker according to service regulations, but all her social benefits result from these provisions. Therefore, we could not simply remove them from the law, because this would have put the social rights of the farmers at risk. The farmers, however, have a right to the fact that their acquired rights are not brought to nothing by means of a stroke of marital law. I admit that we may be able to resolve this social security in other materials, but as long as that does not happen, we need this provision. Where partners believe that this obligation of participation is no longer part of their life-formling, they can of course also determine it contractually or otherwise. In so far, the contractual autonomy applies not only in writing, but also in fact in living together. The second principle in addition to the principle of partnership underlying this novelle is the basic principle that marriage is a contract. Whoever breaks this contract on one side has to bear the disadvantages. We have therefore not abandoned the principle of indebtedness. Mr Graf! It is unfair if you think that we have left the principle of indebtedness, quite the contrary, that indebtedness is still essential in the case of divorce, because it continues to be reflected in the law in the form of grounds for divorce. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now the divorce lie comes after the neutrality lie!]] It is true, admittedly, that we have given up the absolute grounds for divorce. Mr Graf! They meant that 90 percent of the population would be for maintaining the absolute reasons for divorce. I say to you that 100 percent of the population do not know exactly the difference between an absolute and a relative reason for divorce. Therefore, your argument is not quite correct! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But what adultery is, everyone in Austria knows! Everyone knows about adultery!]] Therefore, because everyone knows what adultery is and because it is essential to people, the ÖVP has ensured that it remains in the law as a serious adultery. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was only the merit of the ÖVP that violence was also included in the law as a serious sin of marriage, for neither in marriage nor in divorce, has violence been taken into account. That is what we, the ÖVP, have just filed. The absolute reason for the refusal of reproduction has disappeared, Mr Graf! This does not mean, however, that it is not a marital sin if the partners do not reach agreement on their way of life in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There you have to prove the decay first! This is a process that comes upon us!]] It is quite logical that, when someone goes to the divorce judge, relationships seem to be causing him to go, there is a strong indication of the destruction. You can't make a divorce and at the same time claim that nothing would be broken, it would be all right anyway. This is reluctant in my understanding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Thousands are currently doing it in Austria!]] The new maintenance arrangements are very far-reaching. We now have a maintenance arrangement in the maintenance, which depends on the debt, which is the responsibility of the partner who is unable to maintain himself, with the most liable person also having to use his own assets to do so. Special consideration is given to child rearing in this indebted-independent care. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You are not convinced of what you are telling!]] Mr Graf! We differ in this. We are so much worth child rearing that we also involve them in the maintenance arrangements for the mother who is raising the children. We have understood this to be a thoughtful interest. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For this there is the child care check!]] We do not want to leave those women who stay at home and are devoted to child rearing in the rain after divorce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have two specific cases in mind. Once it is the young mother who is still dedicated to the young children, and we believe that it is good to stay with the children at home, and it is reasonable for the child father that the best care is given to his children, namely through the mother. For this, she is entitled to a maintenance until the fifth year of life of the youngest child. However, the debt must also be taken into account and may, depending on the severity of the debt, affect itself in maintenance as a reduction that goes up to zero. The validity of one's own activity in the event of major indebtedness should also be assessed differently than in the case of mere co-indebtedness. A mainly guilty person will also have to accept a de facto unreasonable work according to labour law rules. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] For example, a teacher cannot then insist that there is a recording stop at the moment, but she will also have to go to an office. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You will realize it in practice how it really looks!]] That is, Mr Graf, it is wrong that there is no more indebtedness. We have also been concerned that we do not want to build any future life-form for the paying part. It was therefore important for us that this claim be limited in time. We have extended it to three years in general, and it can be extended in cases of hardship. Mr Graf! The mediation I consider to be the conflict settlement of the next millennium! Mediation will not only be consistent in the area of divorce, but also in far-reaching areas of the other legal spheres. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For this we need professional requirements!]] We already know them in politics. In the previous debate, it was considered by the "mediators" of Chernomyrdin and those who have brought about peace, of course, that an undivided third party who is not a party has an effect in shaping. – We also want to introduce this similarly in divorce law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: So not everything's a comparison, what's going on!]] Not the lawyer, the party, but an impartial third party, should help the two through these conflicts. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is your problem: you always see divorce as war!]] I assume that lawyers as mediators are perfectly suited and that the board of attorneys is already offering training in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What does the mediator have to be able to do? Tell me the conditions!]] I also assume that mediation as a legal institution will continue to develop in other legal areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5206	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5228	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I believe that our legislative decisions should always – one will judge differently when one sees the balance made – deal with the balance between an individual and also a social need for autonomy on the one hand and the state need for regulation and regulation on the other. I think it is necessary, from a liberal point of view, to keep in mind this tension ratio constantly and then, in this tension ratio, to weigh whether the state can or must regulate or whether something must not be left to the individual's private will to design and to the individual's private capacity. Especially when it comes to life forms that people choose, it is particularly important to make this balance and, as I believe, to give particular attention to individual autonomy needs. In view of the fact that marital law looks like all the provisions on life-forms, there is such a degree of state regulation and state intervention that is unacceptable to us from a liberal point of view. In the light of the fact that the current Novelle working groups have dealt with how to reform, how to give individual and individual more space of design, their results are depressing! Because the result is still "stately outraged", it is still hostile to women, and it is anything other than an open concept of partnership, as Mrs. Fekter has said here. However, this may also be the different view of the term "partnership" when it says this. If it were a concern – and the Liberals it is a concern! – that every citizen, every citizen, can choose the most ideal form of cohabitation for her or for him, then one should realize that we need not only reform for marriage, but also, of course, for all those who want to do so, to create the appropriate framework conditions, that is, also for same-sex couples. This is an approach that is negated by the great coalition, which is not even being debated, which one apparently considers to be only a minority that one has not to worry about, or but one could simply put one's own ideology into law in such a way that one excludes others from certain forms of life. This is a fundamental problem that you have not, of course, been able to cope with with this matrimonial law amendment law, but you did not want it at all. I would just like to mention this in order to make it clear that this concern will remain a liberal concern and that we will therefore bring this issue to Parliament during the next legislative period. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Nevertheless, one should deal with that definition, which is now the subject of your legal situation, that is, the legal situation you have decided, and as regards the Committee's willingness to change this legal situation. I am talking about the definition in § 44 ABGB, which is even the marriage. I see that a large number of young people listen to us today, and it may be interesting for them in particular – but I have had the experience that many others do not know at all – that it is not just a matter of church law, but rather it is included in the ABGB as a definition that two persons of different sex declare their will to live together in inseparable community, to witness children, to raise them and to assist each other. This means that only the passage to bear witness to children is significant for the Spirit of this law once arose that one only thought about the man anyway. Because I don't know how women should bear children. But this definition shows the whole mental attitude from which these laws arose at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: I can't do it alone!]] But still today there is the obligation of reproduction, which is not in the free design of the partners, but which the state provides as a definition for this form of the community of life. I claim that 95 percent of the people who enter into a marriage do not know that at all! Can now They say: Well, it doesn't matter anyway! – I believe that things need to be seen more fundamentally, namely the habit of not complying with legal requirements, because they are either socially obsolete or because they are not so important – as always. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: There are people who still have feelings! This is rare among the liberals!]] In the course of the discussions in the Committee on Justice, I asked the Federal Minister: How would it be if I made a side-by-side agreement on one of these three definitions? – For example: I quit the assistance obligation, and I say I want to get married, but I don't want to help? – This would be an immoral side-by-side agreement and would therefore not be accepted. Further example: I say I want to get married, but only for three years? – This would be an immoral side-by-side agreement and would therefore not be accepted. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Maybe you can rent each other!]] In the same definition – and there are only three criteria – to say: I don't want to get married, but I don't want children! So far as social development in the Judicture is concerned, this would not at least be seen as an immoral side-by-date, and therefore it would still be a marital sin, but it would be permissible to meet such a side-by-date. That means that there are a lot of legal and social issues in it! If we are talking today about a supposed reform and simply covering it, I must say that I think that this is a massive error of the one responsible for the legal system, namely the Austrian legislator. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In other words, either this definition does not count anymore, then it must be removed from the law in order not to give the impression, there are laws, but one does not have to take it so seriously, or this is wanted, as the ÖVP wants, then, in my opinion, also the Judicatur has to stick to it, and then it is not quite logical to eliminate this point from the grounds of divorce. So this compromise, the double ground, which, as so often, is drawn in by the ÖVP – I call it double morals – is that although on the one hand, it has to be contained as a definition, on the other hand, to say that in this form there must no longer be any grounds for divorce, it is inconsistent! Please refer to the position you represented in the committee, but also stand by it and do not make people, as in so many other things, a X for a U! Do not spread a coat over it, which sells itself better to cover up your ideological – I say it that way, because so it seemed to me in the discussion. But above all, don't do something – that's what hurts me so much: Don't lead the population! Foreshadow those who join you, but do not go ahead with the citizens, who only have to "stop" such a definition of the marriage contract because there are two or three in your party who are not willing to adapt to international development, especially as well as to social sensitivity. It is particularly noteworthy that this comes from a party that is always talking about less state and more private. But when it comes to people's own needs, the state should regulate it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am therefore submitting the amendment to amend § 44 of the ABGB: [[Quoted print version removed]] This means nothing more than that the obligation, Mrs Colleague, as the chairman of the Committee on Justice, should you know these differences – to reproduction – which is received voluntarily but is specified by the State – is eliminated from the law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] I think it is overdue to do this. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You want to throw the children out of marriage! That's not what we're supposed to have for!]] Mrs. Colleague! If you believe that people put children in the world only if the state commits them to it, then this shows clearly Your worldview. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] – I believe that it is a matter of personal life decision in which the state has not lost anything. The second point, which seems to me very substantial, because it is also a key issue of this matrimonial law amendment law, is the principles of divorce. There has been a long debate on this, and the objective of the working group was to replace the principle of indebtedness with a principle of devastation. This would have been a real path that has not only been taken in other European countries for a long time. I should just like to point out that Germany has been subject to the principle of destruction for 20 years and not the principle of indebtedness. I should just like to remind you that, from 1989 onwards, there is still a recommendation from the Council of Europe calling on the Member States to regulate the consequences of divorce independently of their own. These are only additional arguments for me, because our main argument is our basic position: that it cannot be the state's concern to judge the moral correctness of the most private conditions, that it cannot therefore be the state's concern to say that in a private relationship between two spouses someone has more guilt or someone less to blame for breaking up this relationship. It must not, according to liberal understanding, be a matter of the state to judge this! This is happening by a judge, by a judge, and that's exactly what you think is right, because you just think it's the state's business to regulate what's right and what's wrong – even in the most private circumstances. That is the understanding of this party, which is always talking about the state having to withdraw. That is what she says only in those areas in which perhaps her chamber is involved, but when it comes to private relations, the state should say exactly how to behave, and therefore the judge or judge will also say what was right and what was wrong in these living conditions. We believe that this is not a matter of the state. That is why the way to apply the debt principle for a maintenance scheme is wrong for us. What we believe, on the other hand, is that the state is here to protect weaker. This means that the maintenance scheme is to be measured whether or not a person actually needs the maintenance, regardless of whether he is guilty or not to the separation of a relationship. What you've done now is a tiny step, but one that I can't take very seriously, because the exceptions you're looking for – it's primarily women, and that's why it's also anti-female, because it doesn't address the needs of women who are the ones who always have to do it – have been in a way that you've been inextricably limited, which is already a matter of law-political concern – not only social policy but also legal policy! For this limitation of any maintenance claim to three years is an arbitrary number! It also goes completely beyond the realities: If you had been listening to the family judges and experts in the working group's consultations, you would know that this is a limitation, which may have been a compromise within your coalition, but not the slightest reason. If you still call a child's fifth year of life the limit to which an interview can be approved, then I must say that you are going beyond the realities again! They are jointly responsible for the absence of childcare facilities! They are also responsible for the fact that this situation – especially for women – is not just a matter of taking care of the children and being able to pursue a profession at the same time – not only because the working conditions are designed in such a way that women on the labour market can hardly take a foothold, but also because this link to care for children and to stand in employment is hardly possible through the framework conditions for which you are responsible. Then you make another law in which you say: From the fifth year of life, the oven is out! – What the woman – the woman will have to bathe it out in the first place – does not interest you because you say she should stay at home most appropriate. – Sometime after the morning star spell that cannot be what may not be, you must prescribe what is right, and you believe that by law in this form you can also achieve this without creating the conditions for it, especially without allowing the personal needs to come into force, because you say what the people have to do. I think that this is an indifference, and that is why such a change is not a change, but it is an adaptation to catch up with the worst cases, but it has nothing to do with a reform idea and with a different spirit. Another point to be reformed now: The matrimoniality of men and women is currently fixed at a different age. It's 19 for men. ==References====External links== Year of life. That goes completely beyond the realities! It may have been that one could make such a difference that one meant that boys were far more mature and therefore able to decide on the scope of such a step. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The reality is that the age of marriage is rising!]] – And again you believe that through such regulations you can change society! Instead of taking reality into account and saying: 16 years is the age of matrimoniality, even for girls as for boys! , stick to your cross – I say reactionary-conservative – world view that you believe you have to secure through laws and thus preserve the past. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Why do you do this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do not take marriage very seriously!]] I am therefore submitting the Liberals' request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to address another point now, because it also seems very symptomatic to me: Firstly, as far as the essence of marriage is concerned, I have spoken about the principles on which marriage can be divorced, and thirdly, I should like to mention a point which now needs a change in the law on matrimonial law and in which the argument of the Presidents of the Justice Committee has gone beyond that, and I was surprised that, as committee chairman, it did not even have the right argument. But in the end it has resorted to putting it off with the flatrate argument that it cannot disassembly disassembly disassembly the marriage. We have some time ago adopted a very reasonable regulation here in the House. It was about which persons may refuse a witness statement. We have regulated in various legislative instruments – starting from criminal law, today the Civil Procedure is on the agenda – that the special relationship of trust between people who have taken responsibility for each other and who live together also needs to be strengthened and protected by the state. This protection and strengthening of this relationship of trust are to be ensured, among other things, by refusing to give a witness testimony if it were to harm one’s partner, have criminal consequences, and more so. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In criminal law, we have extended this right of refusal of marriage mates to partners. I think this is necessary and, of course, when it is not about establishing any ideologies, but about strengthening responsibility and encouraging people to take responsibility for each other. The EIA has refused to implement the same regime in the Civil Procedure. We Liberals have tabled a request which includes the requirement that the right of refusal to witness should also be granted to life-mates. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I say to you that insisting on the current legal situation is not only factually unfair, but that you are doing a bad service to those people who have decided to take responsibility for each other and to assume this responsibility so that they also want to protect this trust outwardly. We have tabled a second request which defines the term "animals" even more clearly. The definition is that life mates can be not only different sexes but also same sexes. This request will be read by my colleague, Barmüller, because I am now missing the time. Finally, I note: Although some improvements have been made to the current state of marital law with this bill, in general this bill also breathes a state-provoking spirit, a anti-female spirit, a spirit that sees the partners as property – therefore also the right of participation – and such a bill, which is borne by such a spirit, we cannot give liberals any consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5478	All three amendments tabled or read by Mrs Dr Schmidt are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5502	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the current bill represents a step forward, although only a small and not a big step – I would like to acknowledge this here – but it brings a further development of marital rights towards fairness and equality in living together and more propriety and dignity in the case of divorce. That was in itself our motive to discuss the essential circumstances and to create improvements. I can remind you: Two years have been involved in a discussion forum, in which members of this House, but also family judges who are active on the ground and have experience in this legal matter, and have found that there are circumstances whose improvement is absolutely necessary. The results of this work are now taken into account. In addition, we would have liked some point to be included in the bill, which I would like to say openly here, but in this respect we have not been able to reach an agreement with our coalition partner. We have expanded the principle of equal participation – these are the key points – we have strengthened self-determination within the framework of marriage – the wife, who has not yet been able to do so in part, if she no longer wants to be active in the household, but wants to pursue a profession again, now this opportunity without having to risk setting a divorce ground – we have also normized the compulsability of the spouse's participation. Of course, it would have been better to take this step as a whole, because it is not understandable that such a commitment exists at all, and I believe that the discussion about it should continue, namely that a more dignified form of association will be allowed. If I look forward to what Mr Graf has said this morning – I believe that Mr Krüger too is amazed at my great amazement, I must say that he believes what has already happened in committee, and probably also Mr Ofner; I am very surprised that both sides are more or less concerned about Mr Graf – then I must say: That is diametrically what we want, namely fairness and equality. I would call that a premeditation rather than dignity. I am actually amazed because if one consistently implemented this, then it would probably be best, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, to regulate the law of marriage in the criminal code. In fact, I only expect more of you to demand that those spouses who do not put children in the world within nine months be punished and sent to prison. That would actually be the logical consequence of your proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: A primitive argument! We have always celebrated it. One lawyer unworthy!]] If you have said today by the liberals that marriage is threatened by the principle of destruction and that you want to prevent it, I can remind you that in the course of a debate on divorce in 1978 – that is significant for you – it does not surprise me, and I believe that it is also to be said in the public – a completely different position has been taken by Broesigke and Peter, by your party at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's 20 years ago!]] I would like to read to you from the minutes on this point: I quote Broesigke: The conclusion of the Family Law Reform... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Broesigke!]] You can make fun of your predecessors quietly, but in reality it shows that in your immeasurable regressivity you almost fall into the riverless. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Back to the quote: "The conclusion of the reform of family law," said Broesigke, "will only be achieved if the right of marriage, namely divorce, is re-regulated, on the whole, with us in the area of divorce sooner or later like other European countries," – ladies and gentlemen, in 1978 it was! – "Most of them are already, and this is now a legal development, to the principle of destruction. This will then be the conclusion of the family law reform." – So the principle of destruction! Peter then says: "In the sense of the liberal aim, I wish for the breakthrough to the principle of destruction and a decisive departure from the principle of indebtedness." - I think that's right. Ladies and gentlemen! Why you do this change, make these spirals, just as you do in all other things, namely, that you take that stand today and tomorrow, is completely incomprehensible. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 20 years have passed since then!]] But it speaks for your political culture, for your political understanding, so deal with us here in the house, but also with your potential voters, and you will certainly get the bill presented for it. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Is there nothing wrong with you?]] For the absolute reason of divorce also a remark: There is probably no doubt that there is a letter from the Bishops' Conference in this regard. The absolute ground for divorce is a limitation of the judges who judge to deal with a case in full. What we want is justice, individual case justice in divorce, and the absolute reason for divorce is an obstacle. That is why the Bishops' Conference – the Bishops' Conference, Mr Krüger, is not wrong! – in a letter dated 15 May, a letter to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities in the Official Journal of the European Communities, of the Official Journal of the European In this sense, the disappearance of the independent divorce status records is a marriage and refusal of the offspring in themselves, and thus a welcome from the sacramental point of view. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This must be done on the tongue: There is no doubt at all about the position of the Bishops' Conference in this statement. But Mr Graf here today, in his speech, which I believe has gone far beyond the subject and where one has to ask himself whether he has ever read the government template, to say, to say – as a great speaker of the Christian in this country – that he is in favour of maintaining the absolute reasons for divorce. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: We have taken a step in the right direction with this bill, and we have thus improved the social position of women, the socially weak, an improvement in the direction of children, the whole situation in the context of divorce, namely that there is a more dignified form of conflict. I think this is a good step, but I believe that further discussion is necessary. But what has been brought in here today by the Freedom Party so far and, as I fear, will continue to be brought in, can only be subsumed under the term "have mercy" - in order to now argue with a term from the Church. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5610	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. – Ladies and gentlemen! You want me to change the clock to 15 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5631	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. A minimal innovation, a minimum consensus between the two government parties, is the result of a long-standing process in which experts from the various areas of social life and living together have contributed to the new right of marriage and divorce in an exemplary way – requested and requested by the Federal Ministry of Justice. Since 1995 – which is now at least four years ago – a high-ranking group of experts – always met at the invitation of the Federal Minister of Justice at the Ministry of Justice. It was – I have always studied the protocols very carefully – quite with divergent but always worked on constructive positions on it, our marriage and divorce law, which was primarily based on basic structures from the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website The next century – the lack of more than seven months – should correspond to us in the next millennium. What happened? – A genuine minimum novel, for which one would not actually use the word "reform". Ladies and gentlemen! Essential points that I have hoped to find in this new legislative entry – it is not every day that we make changes in the law of marriage and in the law of marriage as a whole – have been disregarded. Patriachal relics, subjective rituals, of women, of course, to the patriarchal spirit of the legislator, who is clearly dominated by males, remain upright. An example of this is the fact that perhaps some people do not appear to be so essential, but this spirit is the most expressive fact that it is still the case in the law of marriage that, if marriage mates who decide to keep their name – and this is possible for a few years now – no provision is made for such as any children who are still to witness and come to the world in marriage, the legislator provides that the name of the man is the family name of the children. We discussed this for a long time at the Novelle of the Name Law, and there is no factual justification at all that it is so, except the patriarchal spirit and the ritual, that it should be held by women, say to mothers, somehow in the law yet to show who the "Lord" is in the house. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the most part, it is mothers who care for the children at the age in which they are to be cared for. We know that this is the social reality. For the most part, it is mothers who live with and care for the children in separated marriages and thus also have the right to care. But most of the time, the legislator says: It must be the name of the Father so that you know what it is right. I wanted you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, this example is only for this reason, so that you can see what the basic structure of Austrian marriage rights is still. It has not even been discussed that such relicts are eliminated in matrimonial law. This has not even been discussed. It has also not been discussed that such antiquated legal institutions as the "tomorrow", the "reversion", the "key force", the "marriage" or the "witwine year" - you probably do not know that, because that is from the year 1811, ABGB - should be eliminated. All of this is valid right! It is partly dead right – well dead! – but still part of the Austrian legal system. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the framework in which we see this small change in the Austrian law on marriage. We not only criticize the fact that we have not found the courage to go away from the principle of guilt to the principle of destruction – Mrs. Dr. Fekter and in gentle approaches Mr. Dr. Jarolim have also suggested – not only that is what is bothering us. Our criticism goes far beyond that. In my view, the part concerning the indebted-independent maintenance, which in the discussion has been the heart or heart of the reform for many years, is indeed an essential point. It bothers me with the image that has been made public in this regard and that is carried on by those who are still defending this image, namely that maintenance is reward if it is granted and punishment is if it is not granted. This is completely wrong, because the legislator – and I repeat what my previous speaker said – has only one obligation to support the economically weaker part of his livelihood. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the only goal you have to bear in mind when granting maintenance payments – and not reward in the event of granting and punishment in the event of non-currency. Ladies and gentlemen! This point, which has been most clearly expressed here in the speech of Mrs Dr. Fekter, the judge of the ÖVP Group, is still a central point in marriage law, above all in divorce law, namely that moral assessments of the conduct of the spouses are based on the decision. In my opinion, this has not lost anything in the divorce process. This is at most a task that perhaps should interest pastoral caregivers or pastors in the confessional, but not the legislator! That is why the demand – and this is above all an appeal, but actually an order to the Federal Minister – is that after a divorce two independent existences should remain and that there should also be a basis for it, the central point. It is often not enough, however, and that is why the need to have an independent right to accident insurance, to health insurance and to pension insurance, which ensures the basic needs of the partners, is a central point. This is actually the main task we have to deal with. It is not moral assessments that are central, but that the state should support the people who are in an existential crisis, in this case in a financial crisis, with the support of the poor. But in this novel, this is only implemented in a very small approach and there is only extremely halfhearted. That is why we have summarized in an amendment those key points with which we wish to draw your attention to this ambiguity, to this inconsistency of our own considerations. One of the points, ladies and gentlemen, is the provision, among other things, that, in certain exceptional cases which are very limited in law, maintenance can also be granted independently of the debt, but only limited in time. In our view, there is no justification for this, and that is why this is an essential point of our amendment, namely the first one. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, which has emerged from the discussion here, which has been received in our amendment, is the sad issue of the obligation to participate in the acquisition of the spouse. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria it is all the more so that it is thought that spouses, in this case spouses – usually women – remain, not independent or independent persons after marriage, but a biter like the property of the spouse. Therefore, maintaining the obligation to participate in the acquisition of the spouse remains a part of Austrian matrimonial rights. No one cares that this clearly contradicts the International Labour Organisation's rules. It is strongly criticised by the fact that there is no labour and social security for spouses – it may theoretically also affect men, but in practice this is rarely the case. With us, no one cares about a novel of marital rights, and the incomprehensibleness of this provision is a second point of our amendment. A third point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: If there are any remuneration claims, they should not be delayed after six years. We have therefore included in our request the requirement to abolish this limitation period. I am continuing to explain our amendment and I would like to present you with two more points, which have already been mentioned by my predecessor. The first point: the question of the marriage age. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, different treatment at the age of marriage is by no means timely – I am sure everyone will agree – and certainly not justified on the subject. And that's why I'm wondering: If even novelles of marital rights, why not alignment? That is why we do not call for an adjustment of the matrimonial age, such as the liberals, at 16 years of age, but for a harmonization of the adult age at 18 years of age, which does not mean that in exceptional cases one does not even under 18 years of age, that is, after 16 years of age. Life, both male and female, should have the opportunity to make a marriage. Another point, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing I would like to say is that of the definitions of marital rights. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt presented this very long and detailed picture and also described this inconsistency picture that is drawn there. In this context, the Federal Minister in particular is asked to comment because I do not really have the impression that when it comes to the definition of marriage, it is quite possible to conclude this side-by-side agreement, which you have presented to us in committee. It is invisible, for example, when it comes to time-limiting, which informs everyone. When I say, I make a marriage with someone, but I agree to close this marriage for only ten years. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: So long?]] After ten years, our marriage is, as it were, no longer marriage. It would inform everyone that such a thing cannot really be desired. But it seems to me to be quite absurd, although I understand that you think that this point should not be given this great importance. But I do not see at all why the legislator does not correct something that is in reality – if it is true as you have described it, as it is seen from the Judicature – it is not correct accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with the position of children in family law as a whole, absolutely not. This is not about child care, it is about the obligation to bear the witness of offspring. That's what it's all about! That's, like, the suburb. This is primarily a sexual act, and it is binding and mandatory in accordance with Austrian matrimonial law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the task of the state to prescribe to people their sexual behavior in marriage! This interpretation, however, is for me the only acceptable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should like to mention the last point, because it is a real concern to me to change the ZPO with a view to exempting life-mates from the obligation to testify. We have discussed this in StPO about a year ago, but the coalition parties cannot agree that there is also a line which has once been reached and where there is no point in fact which could only put that into question in any way, consistently in the law. This has nothing to do with an opening of marriage for equal partners – absolutely not! – but it is only about the fact that people living in the community are not obliged by the legislator to harm themselves, so to speak, by accusing their partners. The only point is this, ladies and gentlemen, and I cannot see what a danger it should be for the institute to get married. I conclude by saying that our speaking time is also limited. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The basic structures of a marriage right from 1811 or the German Marriage Law 1938 and a few family law reform of the 1970s: Our matrimonial law offers an extremely inconsistent image, full of outdated valuations, full of antique legal institutions, full of moral reviews! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The opportunity to change it, the opportunity to carry out a comprehensive reform has not been used, and even in the future, women who are usually still the economically weaker part of a relationship will be disadvantaged. That is why we cannot give our approval to this little innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5688	Mrs Mag. Stoisits has explained in detail the amendment tabled here in his key points. I now call for the distribution of this request, and the request will be included in the negotiation. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5791	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5813	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although the draft law on matrimonial rights which you are now adopting is not a fundamental renewal of Austrian matrimonial rights, I am convinced that this law is, in any case, an important step towards the further development of our matrimonial rights, a step quite in line with our social development. They will be right in saying that the reform of the partnership principle in § 91 ABGB, according to which the spouses are to make their marital community agreeable with the aim of full balance between their contributions, is of many, especially younger, married couples already living today, and, in order to remain in § 91, it can be said that the fundamental recognition of the desire of a spouse after taking up a job as an important reason for the redesign of the marital community. I also do not believe that, as Mr Graf said, most of the people, if they are only correct and not disinformed, refuse to eliminate the absolute character of the divorce ground. Apart from that, it has already been said, that people know nothing about the concept of the absolute character of a marital sin in reality, it is now general belief that a marriage should only be divorced if it has actually failed if, as is required in the marital law, it is unhealably broken. The fact that the Conference of Bishops and the Catholic Action did not see otherwise in its positive opinions on the draft law has also been mentioned, should not change the meaning of the adultery, nor should it continue to be a serious violation of the law. He is particularly emphasized in § 49 of the marriage law in addition to the addition of physical violence and severe mental suffering as a serious marital sin. Finally, I believe that the new maintenance regulation of § 68a marriage law is quite contrary to the understanding and acceptance of an objectively enlightened citizen. In fact, there is a great deal of opinion today that the dispute in divorce proceedings should be better avoided on the part of spouses on the part of their spouses. This so-called dirty wash before the divorce judge is generally poned and is also generally rejected. The high proportion of mutual divorces shows this very clearly. This attitude also takes into account the new maintenance status of § 68a marriage law. A spouse who cannot therefore take care of his care because he either has to care for the children who originate from the marriage or has led the household by common accord during many years of marriage and therefore has to provide care for the children and therefore his own professional opportunities should, in the case of divorce, be able to demand maintenance for this reason and not primarily because of the fact that his partner has committed adultery. Ladies and gentlemen! There are results of investigation that women in particular – and this is in reality the case in marriage – are most unpleasant to have to deal with mutual accusations in court with their partner only in order to secure their legitimate maintenance. The new § 68a now offers the opportunity, without such a dispute, because, in principle, regardless of the indebtedness of obtaining a right of maintenance, provided that one of the two conditions of claim is given. Indebtedness is admittedly that the new maintenance claim may also be granted to a spouse who himself is indebted or indebted to the destruction of the marriage. However, the fact that there must be boundaries for such a claim of the guilty spouse also largely corresponds to the social view, not only here in Austria, but also in those countries which know the principle of need for the post-marital maintenance claim instead of indebtedness. Depending on the weight of indebtedness – this expresses the inadequacy clause of the Abs. 3 of § 68a – a reduction of the maintenance claim may also result in the necessary maintenance or, ultimately, in the absence of a maintenance claim. Mediation was already the subject. It serves to avoid ugly and often inevitable subsequent marriage disputes of spouses before court on divorce and divorce consequences. For them, the relevant procedural principles are now to be established. As the project jointly developed by the Ministry of Justice and the Family shows, this modern method of dealing with conflicts is increasingly useful especially in divorce disputes, especially as regards the sharing of assets and the future relationship with children. The new legal bases for mediation will certainly be conducive to the continuation and extension of the model project. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen – and with this I come to the demand made by the Greens and the Liberal Forum to abolish the principle of indebtedness from the right of divorce – we must note that there is currently no sufficient social consensus in Austria for such a far-reaching change in our divorce and divorce effect... – We must take part in the discussion in the two-and-a-half-year working group, but unfortunately some parties have not done so. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You have to do that!]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Yes, but not us!]] This lack of social acceptance has shown not only the very in-depth discussions in this working group, but also the public debate over the last one and a half years. Not least from this point of view, the draft law before you, as it corresponds to the democratic legislative process on a social-politically sensitive issue, is a compromise which, however, seems to me quite successful. I do not believe that everything that we have initially put to the discussion will be realized in any way detracts from the importance. Some, as in particular the new regulation of the social security consequences of divorce, had to be postponed to the next legislative period, because this is not isolated, but because it needs to be considered and discussed in depth on the proposals made by the various sides. Finally, in connection with the divorce consequences, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Justice will prepare for the beginning of the next legislative period the Government Template of a Childhood Rights Amendment Act. One of the priorities of this reform, as you can see from the draft assessment, will be a careful further development of the legal consequences of divorce with regard to the common children. The assessment draft has found a wide echo and mostly a lot of approval. Over 80 opinions have been received. A number of individual questions still need to be discussed with various bodies, in particular the youth welfare authorities, but I do not see any fundamental difficulties in the successful implementation of this project. You see, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that in the area of family law the legislative work of the Ministry of Justice will continue during the next legislative period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5868	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Dr. Drinkl has been reported to speak with a desired speaking time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5892	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision-making - which has already been repeatedly expressed - has indeed preceded a long discussion, and the quality of the compromise is only underlined by the fact that all the opposition parties who are dissatisfied with the compromise from the left camp, the others from the right camp. Therefore, the result will not be so bad if it is in the middle. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's a good reason!]] The difficulty, Mr Ofner, is already expressed in semantics: The one is talking about divorce amendment law, the other is talking about the matrimonial law amendment law. I would rather bring in a few thoughts today on the matrimonial law amendment law. In the course of the discussion we have discussed the questions: What's the good thing about marriage? What does the Austrian families do in the long run? Let go of it. And we have thus determined the line of negotiations, because the Institute of Marriage is too important for us to sacrifice its legal design of short-term, modern, left-wing currents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to put this at the heart of my remarks: For us from the Austrian People's Party, the family is not just the germ cell and the core of society, it is almost the cement that holds this society together. The basis of the family is for us a harmonious marital union. We are not alone with this opinion. Most of the young people wish for a happy, lasting relationship. In this very important question, we are quite consciously different from other groups in this House. We will not allow the family to be dismantled step by step as a central unit of our society. Therefore, in the course of the negotiations, it was important for us to prevent marriage to a "severe liability community" in relation to an "open two relationship", which is apparently the goal of the Greens, but above all the Liberals. Mrs Schmidt appealed to the Committee for a minimum degree of openness to the opposition's arguments. I too can use this on behalf of the People's Party and appeal for a minimum degree of openness to our arguments, because we still know this in line with the overwhelming majority of the population on these issues. Mrs. Stoisits – also in the Committee – meant in an approach of romance, at the beginning there is a heart and love and the like, whatever that is, all this is soft with the time of reason – according to the motto: And if someone is so old-fashioned to confirm his relationship with a wedding, perhaps even a church, he should also bear the consequences for his irration! I would like to say that: There are thousands of relationships, thousands of marriage communities in this country, where the "heart", the community and the "equal" still exist after twenty years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Despite reason!]] Despite reason! It was significant that she spoke of the end or the divorce case as an existential crisis. That is true, but it has only spoken of a financial crisis in existence. They do not see the existential crisis for the Community, the mental pain, but above all the crisis in which the children fall into the trap of divorce. This is the most important thing for us, Mrs Stoisits. We will therefore not allow the formal marriage to be given more and more obligations, but the so-called modern relations will be granted the same and even more rights. The ÖVP also confesses itself in the face of, even in spite of high divorce rates to the ideal of marriage! Perhaps I can quote a sentence from Mrs. Waltraud Klasnic, who recently meant: You can't buy a happy family life, but you can promote it and you can support it! – But we also know that in many relationships there are difficulties that many marriages ultimately fail, and that is why we confess to a further development of marriage rights in the sense of a partnership of marriage. I mean, we have done a lot of things together in this way, and I should like to draw attention to the statements made by my previous speakers. However, I admit that in many areas we cannot agree with the coalition partner, and once again we are familiar with this position again and again. It was important for us to note that the person who is indebted to the breach of the marriage contract also has to bear the legal consequences for this indebtedness. It was also important for us to note that adultery is to be treated not only as a malheur among friends but as a serious adultery. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it was equally important for us to confirm that violence in the family has not lost anything. And finally, and especially, we were concerned with the social security of the divorced partner. I would like to make it clear that it was the People's Party that brought these issues into the negotiations and not – pardon! – the Minister of Women, of which it would have been expected. It was our ladies who kept raising these demands. I am glad that we are going to adopt these regulations with this law today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, we have succeeded in regulating the maintenance after divorce in such a way that the result can be borne by the majority of the population. I may say to Mrs Stoisits, who has so criticised the continued existence of the company's obligation to participate, that this legal provision is the basis for the inclusion of 180 000 Austrian farmers in social security schemes. So I ask you if you are already concerned about the rights of women to worry about the rights of all women. Ladies and gentlemen! If the State sets out rules for the design of highly personal relationships, as expressed in marriage, it underlines its intention to protect this institution in particular. It is in the interests of the state that – Mrs Schmidt is not present at the moment – children are also put into the world because they ensure the survival of society. I would like, since she spoke of the right to witness or the obligation to bear witness, to say a little cheerfully that the testimony of children is not yet possible by the man alone, but it also requires a partnership relationship and a partnership agreement. But children have a right to both parents, father and mother! We are called on to create a climate in which happy and lasting relationships can thrive. Because – and this is what I want to put to the conclusion of my remarks – investment in the family is also investment in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5966	Mr Krüger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e5987	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I can deal with the contributions to the debate, in particular the Red and Black Justice spokespersons. Mr Jarolim has gone a long way and has tried to find arguments for his position from speech by Mr Broesigke and Mr Peter in the 1970s. I have to say, Mr Jarolim, if you have to go back to that point, then this is proof that you find nothing here because we represent a position that is just, right and that is the one that is really forward-looking. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is tradition!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Jarolim! If you are already trying to do justice, then I have to ask you Why did a Minister, Broda, declare the adultery punishable, not as a civil criminal offence, but within the meaning of the Criminal Law § 194 StGB? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was your intellectual highlight!]] In fact, this said: "Whoever breaks his or her marriage is to be punished with imprisonment for up to six months." - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is that what you want?]] This is a law which Mr Broda introduced and which was not put into effect until two years ago. You have to explain this to the people. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is that what you want? Then it says!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another thing, Mr Jarolim. You said and believed that you would make a contribution to humour that the FPÖ would like to punish it if two spouses did not produce children within a reasonable period of time. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Unfortunately not, this is serious!]] I must say that this argument of yours is discredited by itself. This argument, Mr Jarolim, is – not evil – the expression of intellectual helplessness! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... Argument of Graf and you...!]] Mrs Fekter! We have already said this in committee, and I would like to repeat it here: On this issue, the ÖVP has been drawn from the SPÖ over the table. It is truly impressive when Mrs Fekter's first statement from this speaker's point of view is that the right is not satisfied with this novel and left is not satisfied with this novel! But with the SPÖ she decides soon. Is the SPÖ not left in its sense? It's incredible! [[Abg. Mr Fekter: Mr Jarolim has also said that he was not satisfied! The ÖVP has been the only party in this House satisfied!]] You are, in fact, a single party, a committed unity in judicial policy. This shows not only in marriage law, but above all in criminal law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is incredible that a value-conservative party with the comrades of the SPÖ decides on a criminal law novel, which provides that offences with a criminal framework of up to five years, including child abuse and also intentional mutilation, fall within the scope of extrajudicial action. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Incredible! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But this is a witness of poverty, what you said now!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I have to say: No one in this country knows what the EIA stands for today, not even it itself! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is unworthy of a lawyer what you said now!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP has also been put over the table on this subject. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Unworthy of what you're talking about!]] In reality, the standard of divorce is the indebted-independent divorce with maintenance claim. We've already done this. And even the one who has broken the marriage – even deliberately, if he has committed adultery for example – is said to have a maintenance claim, regardless of his guilt, because he needs it, for example, because he is raising the children or no longer finding a job on the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The kids for!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The children are worth something to us!]] This is the standard and not the exception! Mr Fekter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The ÖVP justice policy is in total regret, especially the people who, at least what your clients are doing, also want to feel somehow represented. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's really annoyed by what you give of you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This novel of divorce right is inappropriate! This novelle of divorce will lead to a true flood of proceedings, because of course it will be Judicated, which is unfair and which is not unfair. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's where the lawyer speaks!]] Mrs Fekter! Another example of your total legal ignorance was that you offered when you said there was a graded interview. There can be no talk of that! There is only one maintenance according to § 68a, i.e. according to the need for life. It must be noted that: There will now be a reasonable maintenance claim for those indebted to marital destruction! Whoever commits adultery is rewarded by the legislator! And against it we turn! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today it is a call from the legislator to break a contract – and marriage is also a contract, the fidelity is not only a moral value but also a contractual value. [[Abg. Kiss: It’s adventurous that a lawyer argues so much!]] The legislator rewards the adultery and the adultery by ensuring the basic maintenance for non-contractual fidelity.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6258	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Konrad. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6287	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Krüger, I think with your understanding that I am not going into everything you have just said. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Absolutely!]] That's just so much about it: I am glad that this amendment provides for the first time, regardless of the debt issue, maintenance under certain conditions. This maintenance claim does not mean that women, like some of them, are confined to roses, but is used to avoid the extreme need and is, in most cases, below the level of social assistance. – Only so much on this question. Ladies and gentlemen! "I'm glad that, like today, there are where we are. It didn't always look like we'd come so far." – This was said by Minister of Justice Michalek in the Committee. I join in his assessment and to some extent also his feeling of relief – but only to a certain extent. At the same time, I would like to thank him for at least getting that far. I do not want to say that this is certainly, to a large extent, situated in you, Mr Federal Minister, so I would like to thank you for your persistence and for your endurance. It has already been mentioned several times today that the negotiations have lasted for many years and have been very laborious. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the experts who have been involved in this negotiation work in a working group. Because it is not natural for them to make their time, ideas and commitment available for so long. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The novelle on the matrimonial law amendment law, which is available today for decision-making, is a compromise. A compromise is definitely better than no solution. At the same time, however, this compromise makes it very clear how small the legal steps must be towards a genuine partnership between women and men in order to be taken by politics – in order to formulate it neutrally. However, I would also like to say that I regret that participation with the spouse is still a matter of marital obligations and that this change in the law now before us has not been replaced. Mrs Fekter! Of course, I know and understand that this point has been formulated because of the farmers and now remains inside. However, I believe that if we want to do something for farmers, if we want to ensure them better – which I am sure is – we have to do it differently. Because with the current determination, one is in danger of once again allowing women to be played against women – and that is not the first time. This draft is going in the right direction, and I hope that it will not take so much effort for further progress and, above all, not so many years again. I am convinced that those who believe in being able to cement obsolete ways of life with an old - fashioned right of marriage can. Modern marriages between women and men, who deliberately choose a partnership, need a matrimonial right which corresponds to their concept of communion and not that of our grandparents!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6329	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6350	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since this change had to be decided before the summer and there was a great hurry, the supplements contain some errors which were originally not included in the documentation or in the personal opinion of the Liberals in the filed. Therefore, I would like to say to the minutes that in line 1, the word "show" is wrong and has to be replaced by the word "balancing" and in line 14 of the different personal opinion of the sentence: "One of the most important concerns in this" – that is, this novel – was "to replace the principle of indebtedness with the principle of destruction." – The second part of the sentence is missing and the next sentence must begin with the words: "In most European countries, the principle of indebtedness has long been eliminated from divorce law." Ladies and gentlemen! All this shows how much pressure still has to be worked here in the house and how little there has been in this novelle a solid work in the foreground, because simply forced by the coalition to put something on the table on results. Of course, the question of how marital law is designed is, of course, a very worldly, Mrs Fekter. As Mr Drinkl, who has always said that there should be happy marriages, is not in the hall, I would like to say in your direction that no one in this House and especially not the Liberals, ladies and gentlemen, has something against it if people are happy! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what happens! Imagine that!]] With us, however, the emphasis is on people being happy. Ask women to what extent they are happy in their present marriages. Women who enter marriage have to listen exactly because it is about happy marriages, it is not about happy women in these marriages. This is, in our view, a very, very important point that should be changed, namely that the focus should be on people and less on the institutions. For the institutions are only worth what they ultimately receive in the social context to give the individual, the individual a room for development. This is our access! Ladies and gentlemen! This situation now leads to the fact that the situation of women in marriage is still very bad today, in particular because their protection, for example social protection, is not ensured in this context, although all claim that women are doing such an important job. The social security of women in marriage is not guaranteed. And that is something that the Liberals have not only demanded, but will repeatedly demand at this pult. Ladies and gentlemen! A short while ago, on the principle of guilt, of destruction, because it is always spoken of. I think that many can contribute to this from personal experience, and you should not forget it if you are here at the speaker's desk: When it comes to divorce, even marriages with children, no one can decide who really is to blame. The fact is that these marriages are broken, but whoever is guilty, who made the beginning, where the break was, from when this twosomeness or familial four, five or sexuality has developed, all this is not to be clarified by an independent third party. It is not even to be explained by those directly involved, because there are different truths from those affected. If a marriage is no longer held and so family life has become a burden to all involved, then it must be the access of those people to a new beginning, that they should try to break up this covenant in a way that is still a future for all parties involved. I think that this would be more sensible access than looking for the guilty in this situation and perhaps also questioning the individual members of the family who did what when, and judging what could be interpreted as guilt. I say to you that this destroys in existing families, even if there are difficulties or the spouses are facing divorce, more than if you focus on how to create a new beginning. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the right of the child to both parents is also a wish that we underline, but that is not so easy to enforce in reality. That is why it makes sense for Mrs Bauer to be in the foreground of the child's well-being. In any case, it will be up to those who have lived together for a time in this family to find each other again afterwards. But it is more important in a situation where a marriage breaks down – if there are children in the family who are not yet independent and cannot yet take care of themselves – that the well-being of the children is at the heart of the children, and not the demands of the parents on their children, who are often nothing but a "war scene", where the parents who no longer understand themselves carry out their claims of power or perhaps their mutual injuries on the back of the children and try to exert pressure on the children. It is therefore desirable for children to have both parents and to be in contact with them, but the fact is that there are situations where this is no longer the case, and if this responsibility is obviously no longer perceived by parents, then the child welfare should be at the heart of our opinion rather than the right of parents to children. This has, however, been formulated in this way by the speaker's desk, and I therefore want to clarify it. On the definition of marriage, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say something – Mrs Schmidt has already mentioned it – that: We have nothing against the fact that people find themselves together with the will, the good will, to form an inseparable community. Yes, they should also resolve to bear and raise children. And they shall also promise mutual assistance. That's important! But, in my view, it cannot be a constitutional feature, a fundamental feature of such a community, that it is said that one wants to bear and raise children. I think it is wrong – and if you take it exactly, you should actually see it that way – for people who are organically, physically unable to witness children, to say that they may have the will to bear children, but because they are not able to do so, they should actually close the institution of marriage. You are now focusing on saying: These people must have only the will to bear children anyway. I wonder to what extent this can still be appropriate in the light of this, because, in reality, this is, in our assessment, a remnant, Mrs Bauer, a continuation of the law of the Church by other means. We believe that to an increasing extent not a moral set by the state or by society is important, although there are limits here, that is undisputed, but what happens between people becomes increasingly a negotiating morale. It's about how people make their own living together. If marriages are happy and when living communities are happy, that's all we can expect in a society. It is not necessary to overload these communities, in all the difficulties they still have, with external morals. We therefore point out that the definition of marriage should not necessarily be linked to the testimony of children and to the will to witness and raise them. This does not mean any depreciation at all, but, of course, we believe that the family concept must be maintained. We only have a somewhat broader family concept than the ÖVP has, for I am not inclined to assume that when marriages are divorced, the children only live with the mother or only with the father and therefore are taken over by mutual responsibility not to be called families. To say, if the father or the man is away from the family, it's just a family, that can't be your serious thing! It is, of course, optimal – no one will dispute – if parents and children live in a community, everyone is happy. But if it is not, then we should also pay the same respect and recognition to the other communities that are freely elected and where the partners say we want to take responsibility for each other, as we do in marriage. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the third point, an amendment concerning the right of refusal in § 321 ZPO. Mrs Schmidt has already tabled a request on this subject, and I would ask Members of the Coalition Party, in particular, to listen carefully, because it is an amendment which is divided into two parts: The amendment tabled by Mrs Schmidt refers exclusively to different sexual partners. The amendment I am now submitting refers to other or equal partners, and it reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore made the effort to make two amendments because we have already made the criminal code to give the partner of life the right to a statement if it would be bad for his partner to live. We understood that this was also a sensible step. But we have not done this in the field of civil trial, but here too, Ladies and gentlemen, it must be admitted that the conditions are the same: There is a special relationship of trust in the communities of life, and it is wrong to be required in the civil trial to testify in court if this would harm a companion of his life or a companion of his life, Mrs Bauer. This is important, and I would ask you not to reflect on the requests, but to decide whether they can at least agree with Mrs Schmidt's request, which concerns the various sexes of life, or the request that I have now made, which concerns different and similar communities of life. If you reject both requests, you clearly say that you want to discriminate against communities of life in the field of testimony against marriage and in the civil process even against those communities treated in the criminal field. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be good if we could at least agree on these facts and if we were to change things that are historically explainable, but which are not to be maintained, even today, although this is a special pressure for you, because you have to do a lot before the end of the legislative period. If that is the case and if you have not done a great deal here, you agree with our amendments. Then, according to the Liberals, we have taken a bigger step than the one you are planning now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6420	The amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Barmüller is sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. There are now two words on actual corrections. I would like to draw the attention of both Members to the fact that a speaking time of 2 minutes must be applied and that the facts to be corrected must be started, to which their version must then be compared. The first actual correction was requested by Mr Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6453	Mr Krüger said earlier that Minister Broda had introduced the crime of adultery. – This claim is incorrect. On the contrary, it is true that in the predecessor of today’s criminal code, both adultery and adultery were involved, a discussion has been held about the removal of both criminal offences, in which Broda was unable to assert himself with regard to adultery. Only the criminality of the marital disorder was not incorporated into the criminal code, but very probably the adultery. This is probably a qualitatively different result!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6483	Another actual correction is made by Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6507	Mr Krüger claimed that we had decided to compensate for child abuse. - That's wrong! On the contrary, it is true that only those offences that are dealt with in front of the individual judge are disversible. In addition, there is only agreement of the victim. Without the willingness of the victim, there is no solution. – There is no compensation for child abusers!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6538	Mr. Dr. Krüger! You want a personal response, but you know that this is not identical to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6562	Mr President. A personal response: The division covers all offences for up to five years, i.e. child abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is not a personal response! That's a word report!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] There are two types of child abuse: that carried out by sexual association and not by sexual association. And the child abuse that is not carried out by sexual association has a criminal threat...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6595	Deputies! That's exactly the example I've feared. This is a contentious contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's wrong!]] No, you need to explain your very special personal concern in a personal response. I'm sorry, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6634	High house! I see my personal concern in the fact that Mrs Fekter has wrongly made it clear to me that he has said something wrong. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In fact, child abuse, which is not carried out by a sexual association, is threatened for up to five years and is also subject to the division. I can prove it to you on the basis of the criminal code.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6671	Deputies! That wasn't a personal response either. In future, I would ask you to act more in accordance with the rules of business. Mrs Bauer is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6695	High house! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make two points. First of all, Mr Barmüller, Mr Barmüller: For us from the Austrian People's Party means Marriage, not yoke, not espionage, but protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we see an alternative in a community of life, but of course it cannot enjoy the same rights as it is granted by a marriage contract that two spouses have concluded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, the protection of marriage also means protection of children, which we see as part of this community, and we do not want to remove the children from marriage, as Mrs. Schmidt and, as I have read, Mr Jarolim. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For those who today have been talking about women's kindness and who have asked for more rights and more protection for women, I should like to say from this point of view what I have always said in the debate on social legislation: The liberation of women from marriage usually leads, in most cases, to a new dependency, away from men into a new dependency, namely to the social offices and the public hands. That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say the following: Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much for the tradition, and I would like to say that there is almost no legal basis. This time two and a half years of serious long-term preliminary consultations have been carried out, and the result is a balanced product which depends on individual case-law. We're happy about that. I have made the accusations about the law because I was very pleased that the government proposal had been decided and that it had come into the house. However, I am also aware that at the last moment we have succeeded in making improvements in some of the points that we have been made aware of by practitioners. Firstly, it has been very important for us to maintain adultery as a principle of indebtedness. It was important to us – and I have not heard from anyone else – that a crime of adultery, namely physical violence and mental suffering, is enshrined in the law. One point that is very important because we unfortunately have to see that there is more and more violence in the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, in order not to hurt the sense of justice of the people or to become unjust, it was important for us to find clear, precise formulations, particularly in the area of fairness, which set out the will of the legislator. I would like to delete my remarks on the principle of partnership, because my speaking time is relatively short. It is also important to us that maintenance can be required in whole or in part in money in upright marriage, taking into account whether a spouse already provides natural benefits – and this is very common – such as rent, operating costs et cetera. I have not heard one point today from anyone, ladies and gentlemen, nor from those who are always dedicated to women in particular, namely those whose realization is due to our persuasion: We have achieved that the judge must inform spouses of a possible loss of social benefits in the case of divorce. These are the cases of hardship that we encounter again and again in our speeches. It must also make a communication to the main association of social security institutions, which then examines the social consequences of the divorce and informs those concerned about it and, where appropriate, about the possibilities for continuing insurance. We from the Austrian People's Party could result in a favourable health insurance for these cases, for which 300 S can be paid monthly. However, this is still to be anchored in the field of social legislation. I believe that this is a great relief for single mothers and is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can be very happy. We can face up to all the accusations that have been made out of or for electoral reasons today. The population and in particular the women will appreciate what we have achieved here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6764	Mr. Dr. Jarolim has asked for an actual correction. I have just explained the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6788	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer has unfortunately said that I would have told her that children would be thrown out of marriage. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I read!]] – That’s wrong! I said that children should be particularly protected in divorce proceedings. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The APA did not do that well!]] This is due, among other things, to the reduction of divorce procedures in which the last attack is destroyed, and in turn, to the strengthening of the principle of destruction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6853	Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6875	Mr President. Mr Michalek! Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, Mr Michalek has drawn my attention – and I would like to take this up – to the fact that the Working Group on the Change of Marriage Act has already begun its work in the presence of my predecessor Johanna Dohnal. We could have imagined – and I would have liked to take up Mr Jarolim's speech – more of what would appear and promised about changes in family law. In parallel to the discussions in the working group, I commissioned a study entitled "The distribution of housework and care work against the background of divorce in social and judicial practice". I would like to present some of the findings of this study, because it clearly shows what it is all about and why there is a need for change. First. There has been a great deal of talk about indebtedness, indebtedness and indebtedness. This has its effect not only in the few indebtedness and partial indebtedness decisions – that is, the experts – but above all in the many agreeable divorces. Indeed, it can be assumed that the common divorces will always be concluded on the basis of a debt and agreement is made, but somehow the question of indebtedness or non-indebtedness always floats. We believe and the experts assume that there will be a great deal of support for the common divorces, because in the future there will be quite different access to indebtedness and non-indebtedness. The second very important area for me in this novel is the clarification and dynamicization in the distribution of supply work. This has already been mentioned, and I do not want to repeat it. I would just like to mention one second point which has also been received, namely the clarification of the fact that the employed spouse must also support the other in his free time in the household. This is a first, real development! It's not just a matter of saying: This is a job, 38-hour week, there the supply work. That's not going to happen when children are there and when these kids are small. I think it is important to have said this on the basis of law, even in view of the fact that it will bring about social change. What are we talking about when we talk about today's situation in divorce proceedings? . I would like to inform you of a few examples of this study and I would like to predict that these are concrete divorce judgments, which have been anonymized in the study. First example: The man is an alcoholic and mistreated woman and children. She will be excused because she has not managed the budget properly, according to his particulars. Reason – I quote –: "The man's misbehavior, based on characteristic weaknesses, requires a particularly sustainable care of the children and the order in the household." – Sub-indebtedness, no maintenance. - That's the situation we've got now. Second example: The wife is partially divorced because she didn't visit her husband in the hospital. At that time, however, he already had a relationship with another woman, what the wife was known, she just couldn't prove how this is often the case in these situations. However, the man – the man’s argument – had begun the affair because of the neglect of the household.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6930	Mrs. Federal Minister, apologise for a moment. – Mr Marizzi, please, that is totally impossible! There is no doubt that there is no telephoning in this hall. [[Abg. Marizzi: I apologize, I've already turned it off!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e6957	In the absence of a visit, the neglect of the household was subsequently reinforced. – Partial debt, no maintenance! Third example: The woman changes bed linen weekly, but does not make the bed regularly and does not prepare breakfast. She worked in the man's operation. – You owe co-indebtedness; no maintenance! Next example: The woman is only cleaning the household with environmentally friendly detergents, which is dissatisfying for the man. She does not iron his belt-free shirts either. The dirty dishes are around for longer than a day. The woman also visits a school to complete her training. This displeases the man. - She'll be excused. No entertainment! If we look at these examples, I do not understand any argument that is against a regulation which we want to finally use in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "Fairness" I say, above all, because we clearly say by law that the marital tasks can be shared in such a way that part of the work is carried out and the other part of the care work. There is also a confidence in the law of that part that remains at home. However, this confidence will eventually be violated, broken in the event of a marriage failure, and up to the smallest detail everything that depends on it will be called into question and put into uncertainty. For this reason, I am really glad that there has been a further development here, although I could of course add many points on which I think we should start talks again in the light of this amendment. Another aspect of the need and these two situations is these two possibilities. I would like to point out that it is not the case that this maintenance can only be granted on time in the event of indebtedness. I would like to quote – on this point I attach great importance – that: Where the maintenance claim is established in court, the court shall, each time it has a period of three years, if it cannot be expected that the divorced spouse will thereafter be able to secure its maintenance, in particular through reasonable employment. - Quote. I think it's just all those women who have always been at home for a long time. This is in the sense of housewives who have always worked at home. We urgently call for their support and support. As far as social security is concerned and all those arguments that say that many things are missing, above all also age insurance, I can only point to the following: I am concerned about the fact that everyone has an independent pension scheme, regardless of whether or not a divorce has occurred. Here I very much advocate for the married woman who, of course, must have the same right as a divorced woman, who must necessarily come to an independent pension scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this long debate on the change of family rights, of marriage rights, it has always been said that all the changes we are discussing here would endanger marriage. – I mean: The opposite is the case! We live in a society that only works if there is independence and independence. This means that there must be a constant rounding around each other, a fair discussion of the common objectives and the common path. This can sometimes fail. But an open and genuine partnership can only be lived on the basis of independence and independence. I think this novel will contribute to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7031	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kammerlander with a desired speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7055	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to see my comments – and I would like to forward this – only from the point of view of women's policy, and I also understand them in this way. Why? – I would like to make a point of order. I think that this reform of the right of marriage is primarily a priority concern for women. I see the role of women in marriage and the consequences that women have to bear, especially when it comes to divorce. [[Abg. Kiss: But you will already accept that there are still men! I should like to ask, Mrs Colleague.]] Let us note, first of all, that women in marriage are not, as the speakers of your group claim, particularly well-suited, better or even equal. There's no talk about that! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kiss.]] There is no mention of this, Mr Kiss. Look Just look at the numbers, look at the experiences! Let us start with the work of women. Let us start with the question of how many women are being pushed out of the labour process with the reason that they are finally married, that they have finally been cared for. Let us start with how many women are working in part-time or have little employment, because they are either considered to be cared for or because they have care obligations, which, of course, in the majority of cases, we already know, always depend on women and lie with women. In many cases, therefore, full-time work is not at all possible. [[Abg. Kiss: No one argues!]] But this naturally reduces the chances of independent security. That's quite clear! Look The figures relating to old-age care are given below. We have discussed the figures in the Committee for a year or more, in the context of the debate on women's people's desire. More than 50 percent of women do not have an independent pension scheme! – Do you find that equal?- Oh, my God! Can you really say that marriage is an institution that protects or supports women in a special way?- Oh, my God! - Neither is the case. That's what you see when you look at these numbers. I don't even talk about the law of marriage itself! My previous speakers said it: The law dates back to the last century. - And that's how it looks. It has patriarchal trains, all the way into the smallest details – apart from the cures that are still contained in them. I'll tell you: It would be in the face of the 20th exit. In the 19th century, it was actually appropriate to make a total reform, a contemporary total reform of marriage and divorce law. That would have been what it would have been like. It would have been time for one to finally get up and give this law powers that correspond to the developments of time so that it is applicable and simply corresponds to reality. For me and for us from the Greens, the abolition of the principle of indebtedness was something like a minimum consensus, so that we could even talk about reforming marital rights and divorce rights. This is the minimum consensus for me! For in maintaining the principle of indebtedness, injustice and inequality are the strongest! We are miles away from a policy of equal treatment when this amendment is adopted and decided today. I attach particular importance to this observation: We are miles away from any form of equal treatment policy! Don't mind the SPÖ! And you too, Mrs Minister: Do not think that you have achieved something in the sense of an equal treatment policy with this novel! We're still far away from that. I would like to add three examples because they are striking and because my previous speakers have also partly responded to these games. They – especially you from the ÖVP – boast of having now admitted debt independence in certain exceptional cases. The example of the woman with the children under five years of age is cited, the example of the "young Muttis", as Mrs. Fekter has always formulated so nice and adrett here. I'm just wondering: What is the price these young women have to pay for, as you put it, "young Muttis"? – The price for this is that they cannot go to work and may if they do not want to lose this entertainment! The price for this is that after five years, when they consider going to work, they will hardly have any more chances of finding a job at all in the labour market! Five years of not going to work, which makes a return to the workplace and a reintegration into the labour market almost hopeless! We all know this from women's policy, we all know it from the debate on equal treatment policy. – This is obviously the price that these women have to pay and which you especially want to celebrate here, especially outstretch. Apart from that, it is absolutely absurd for me to prescribe women indirectly so to speak, so to speak, that they cannot go to work, because otherwise they will lose their livelihood, because they are therefore disadvantaged! Even if they went to work, they'd have a double load. They would have the burden that they work – part-time or as always – and that they should pay for the care, for the education of children. But these inequalities have You don't even clear it out of the way – on the contrary! They have issued the persil license to the father, as it were: He can only take care of his job more quietly, he doesn't need to think anything else at all. He can continue to play the recreational father, the weekend father, completely careless and without obstacles. This is a compromise that is more than lazy! Again: He'll take them miles away from any equal treatment policy! Let's continue by: What about the woman with the half-growth children who may not get into such indebtedness? What about her, and what about the half-growth kids? Where is that regulated? These children also need the supervision, care, education and perhaps the special care of the parents! What about these cases? – These cases are not regulated in your law at all! Or: What about the woman after long marriage? – This is again one of those cases where debt independence can exceptionally occur. This woman, who is perhaps 60 years old, who has still concluded her marriage in the very traditional sense that she is at home, provides for the household, provides for the children, provides for the education of the children, may then be divorced by 50, 60 years. She has no chance of any work, she probably does not even have an independent pension scheme. What about this woman? Should she go to court every three years and argue that she may still have a worthy outcome in her old age? What about this woman? – These are your "famous" exceptions that you have created! Apart from that, especially in the direction of ÖVP said: What's the adultery? What's a adultery? How do you define him? – You don’t even consider the fact of breaking the marriage! They don't even consider what happened before a adultery! You think you can force yourself here to become judge over all judges and say: If that happens, the woman will not be entertained under these and those circumstances or under general circumstances. For me, this is actually the horrific thing: the way you deal with a fact here and always talk about the institution of marriage, but never consider or consider that it is about people and that you should take these people into account in your considerations and not just the institution. But it seems that this institution and the institutions are all worth more to you than the people who have to live with it and deal with it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This also includes the fact that Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, in her speech, obviously could not distinguish between adultery and adultery. This was another significant example for me that you are always concerned about the institution in your minds, but not about the people who have to do with it. Finally, I would like to say to you from ÖVP: They have managed to eliminate constructive, lengthy work: the result of a debate that has taken place for a very long time in an interministerial working group, in which there has been very strong and, in part, controversial debates, but most often, very constructive debates. Finally, it was more and more recognizable to approach. The outcome of the work of this working group was the draft which the Ministry first presented. You have managed to destroy such a work with your really crazy criticism and with your senseless, sending behavior! I would also like to tell you that you have not done any service to parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7119	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7141	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Mrs Kammerlander, if I refer to all your comments, then I will take up my speaking time. However, if I follow some of your comments, I must say that one can only conclude that it has actually failed, one remains a housewife, because a working woman does not have any maintenance claim under applicable law, if she herself deserves it. Of course, all laws, including matrimonial and divorce law and family law, are always to be considered from the point of view of women's policy, and that is what happens. One of the aspects of this innovation is women's policy. This is also true in family law. I now take this as a point of reference: For me, as a family politician and family spokesperson of SPÖ, family law in general and the right to divorce and divorce in particular is of particular interest. The matrimonial law... [[Abg. Gaugg: How many children do you have? Just so out of interest!]] Mr Gaugg! Your brief remarks are well known. [[Abg. Gaugg: It was just a question, gracious woman!]] – Your level is known. Their level has always been known in Carinthia, and it is now also known throughout the country. [[Abg. Gaugg: You can never do that!]] You don't have to be proud of that! But I only have four minutes of speaking time, and at that time I will not deal with your abilities! Marriage is directly and directly involved in the cohabitation of people in the families. That is why the 1998 SPÖ principle programme also states that we are seeking a family- and child-friendly society. This also contradicts the accusation that Mr Jarolim wants to "press out children from the family". Meaningful regulations in this area can produce many positive things for people's living together, but inadequate and few adequate regulations can do and strengthen harm, suffering and pain. We are of course aware of this responsibility, especially in this matter. That is why we stand by the SPÖ and therefore I am opposed to all efforts to prevent, on the one hand, or on the other hand to prevent regulations in matrimonial law, not on the other, but on the other hand on the one hand on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! A good example of this is the debate on the elimination of the so-called absolute grounds for divorce and, above all, adultery. Although all the experts, the family judges, the working group in the Ministry of Justice and even the Catholic Church welcomed the abolition of this hopeless antiquities regime, for a long time the public has developed a somewhat meaningful discussion. Although it was quite clear that adultery should continue to be a serious adultery, this new regulation was discussed artificially, indeed fanatically. I believe it is important that the new regulation of § 91 makes it clear the obligation to form the partnership of the marital community. I also think that the creation of the post-marital maintenance claim is important under strictly limited conditions, in principle regardless of the debt of divorce and in particular hardship. The solution we have found is to be welcomed, although I could imagine a much better one. I understand very little why § 68a suspects the inadequacies of self-preservation up to the fifth year of the child's life. This definition of the fifth year seems to me to be quite arbitrary. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Is it too!]] – Yes, it doesn’t just seem like it is! But it shouldn't fail. For another useful measure, I believe that even if the budget is maintained, the performance of the maintenance can be demanded in money. This is likely to end a lot of unworthy situations. But it is particularly important – therefore I would like to stress it in spite of the red light – that the conflict model mediation is first recognised by law. This improves the use of an instrument already tried and tested. Our concern is above all and it must be to ensure that divorces – if there are already divorces, and that is the reality – are discharged in a dignified form and that children in particular – that is the most important – do not suffer any or as little damage as possible. So it's about protecting children. Mediation is not only intended in the narrower sense of divorce, but also in terms of visitation rights and care procedures. I would like to point out here that we will decide on a Novelle family compensation law on Friday, so that the family ministers can promote non-profit institutions offering mediation or parental and child support in divorce and separation situations. The present law on matrimonial law thus entails a number of changes for the weaker partners. These are usually still the women. But it also leads to improvements for children. If it had happened in my group or in my opinion, the rules would have been more far-reaching and the recasts would have been less hesitant. After all, at a time of pre-election campaign, a bill was passed in a socially sensitive matter. In this sense – and only in this sense – my group welcomes this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7216	Mr Dr. Ofner has now come to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a five-minute statement to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7237	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to deal with two previous speakers, namely the actual corrections they have made. Firstly, I would ask Mr Jarolim to refer to his actual correction. It is unfair for him to take the view that the adultery was practically present in the criminal field before Broda and was, so to speak, only rewritten by him. There was the criminal law of 1852 – it was also called "the law of law" – and that is in the Broda period as of 1. January 1975 was replaced by a completely new law, both in terms of content and also in terms of the new division, the criminal law. Broda or his home have been included in this completely new law and have not included other provisions. I do not want to appreciate whether it was comprehensible and reasonable that Broda removed the marital disorder, that is, that the new law did not bring the marital disorder in, but the adultery already. But if one wants to stay on the ground of the facts, one must point out that the Brodach criminal code does include adultery, but not marital illness. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Thank God!]] In this respect it is not possible to refer to the historical legislators of the year 1852. [[==References====External links== Dr Jarolim]] Mr Jarolim! I have dealt with you and your actual correction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Problem circle two is the matter with the disversion, with the extrajudicial act balance. Many who, I would like to say, have agreed to it, especially the friends of the ÖVP, are still very allergic when faced with the truth. Mrs Fekter! I read § 207 of the Criminal Code before: "Sexual abuse of unmistakables. Whoever... commits a sexual act on an unmistakable person or has it done by an unmistakable person shall be punished with imprisonment from six months to five years." I read a little more about child pornography, which we have so gladly and so often tried, § 207a, "Pornographic representations with unmistakables": "Whoever presents an image of a sexual act to an unmistakable person or an unmistakable person in himself, to another person or to an animal whose consideration, in the circumstances, gives the impression that such a sexual act has occurred in their production, manufactures or imports for the purpose of disseminating, transports or executes, or provides, leaves, introduces, or otherwise makes available to another person, shall be punished with imprisonment for up to two years." Even up to two years! Shipability does not apply to both! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If it's two, it's all right!]] There are three conditions: One is the criminality of up to five years, which is repeatedly misinterpreted by you because you do not know. Please make the effort or order a secretary to write you out of the criminal code, all of which falls under the criminal framework for up to five years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You'll be amazed: This includes almost all the serious and serious crime! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the Disversion Law! Single judge's responsibility!]] But you don't know because you have little to do with it and because you don't bother to look at it. You'd rather go out and grab some of the others who deal with it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We have decided on individual jurisdiction!]] Let me tell you something more: If you always claim that someone doesn't have to participate in the Disversion, you're right – but it will take place without him! He does not have to participate, nor can he care about what is happening on his back. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We have decided on individual jurisdiction!]] If it is said again and again that he does not have to participate, that is, please, not even half the truth, but that is a chuzpe. For in truth, the division happens whether it participates in it or not! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is similar with the transactions here. For in the civil field it is mediation, which is so highly praised, in the criminal field of extrajudicial acts. It's always the same thing: So-called advanced areas from the left half of this hall wish for something. First of all, the EIA is opposed because it fears its voters and even its citizens. Then their representatives will be in front of the media and say: Just rely on it, we'll hold the position. But at some point the famous slice of the salami is cut off. At the ÖVP it turns out – when one is discussed in the series, while there is talk about it out here – that the friends there say: Is that really the case? We didn't even look at that! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! Half the truth! Just half the truth!]] – Afterwards, they do not trust to take the step back because they fear their voters. It is also in this case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then you go out and praise, then Mrs. Konrad comes and says: That was once a part, we still have a lot in the cook – as well as the Federal Minister – but we hope it won't last so long until the next slice of the salami. You are always with the ÖVP and carry the knife when the next slice of the salami is cut off! - That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7375	Mrs Brinek has now come to speak with a five-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7397	Mr President. High house! To my previous speaker: Being familiar with matter for a long time also does not protect against error. I trust my lawyer and the other experts here in the house. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: That's an argument!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The ÖVP has no reason at all to refrain from joining and mentioning things by name. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Mr. Ex. Ofner! In many areas of justice, we take the path of small steps. This is not salamitactic, as you would like to accuse us, but it is a major approximation to real and social conditions. If you want to make radical and Ho-ruck policies, make them! We're not going there. Don't make any illusions about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The prisonless society allows the ÖVP!]] In this context, I wish – and I am grateful to the previous speakers who have explained the good, high level of justice policy in connection with the judicial politicians Broesigke and Peter – that it is not only going back to the future, but that we are also guarding against those who see the opportunity in a just ideological future. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Dr. Ofner and Deputies of the ÖVP.]] The fact that we worked with Broesigke on a different level makes me a little stupid. I stand by the fact that this is a work of law, an innovation that takes the path of small steps, the path of the steps that people expect. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Dr. Fekter and Deputies of Freedom.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It has been quoted by previous speakers that the majority of young people want a family based on long-term marriage. This family should comply with the principles of partnership and justice. If you have other forms of justice in the FPÖ, such as those that are more papal than the Pope, then tell it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I have dealt with the behaviour of the ÖVP, Mrs Colleague, not our position!]] You've heard the church's position here. On the other hand, you have also heard and have to take note of the fact that you want to give the divorce judge a complete and final decision to what the Church says in the confessional chair: in total, an instrument that "never nor ever forgives". [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That wasn't my topic at all!]] Please do not measure that a partnership designed in such a rigid way does not want anyone. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Only with the knife lead at the salami!]] So please don't talk like you're going to. You're making a human-right policy! Young people don't want that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They want the form that we decide on today. This is also a provisional solution. The interim is in step for the farmers and their pension. If we had solved the participation differently, we would have wronged the farmers. Young farmers' social security legislation must first be adapted; it must only be self-employed. We from the People's Party remain that the pension division is not replaced by the maintenance scheme, as we will decide today, because, unlike FPÖ, we are important to children's education. [[Amazement at the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's why you block all kindergartens because the children are important to you! That is why there are no kindergartens in Lower Austria!]] Someone who has experienced the effort and joy of child rearing, these women and men want to take this time into account in certain circumstances as regards pension entitlements, they do not want to fall into a care hole. The ÖVP remains with the pension division, provided that in the long term an independent pension scheme for women and men is the best way to go. It is also important – as I have already said – that, as regards the maintenance for the woman, who is to have him even after divorce under certain conditions, it is taken into account that the man – in most cases he is – is not economically hit the border or is put into danger of existence. Mrs Kammerlander, I have to admit to Mrs Mertel: According to your variant, you should not be employed as far as possible in order to be able to exploit all possible sources of individual and state support. We from the People's Party are pursuing a partnership, family-oriented marriage, cohabitation and women's model. With this novel of justice and the principle of fairness, we are getting a little closer again. If the FPÖ wants to return to pre-Christian and medieval legal and justice ideas according to which one partner owns the other, then it should do so. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you have against the Christian?]] I'll step in front of the voters and say what I think is right!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7566	Mrs Hoebinger-Lehrer spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7587	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After this last speech, I find it very difficult not to deal with it, but unfortunately, in three minutes we cannot do much. However, I would like to say that as a medieval, as I do not know, we are going to be heard by the Pope and so on. But I think that in this debate something will be forgotten: There is always talk of people, but humanity is disregarded! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The following is to be said: If you enter a marriage, at least in the case of a marriage, at the beginning is love, affection, desire to spend a life with each other. This may then be fleeting, but it will remain at least a deep friendship in later marriage years – those of you who have experienced later marriage years. I think it is very wrong that we want to crush all of this now. I am not addressing the ÖVP, but the Greens and the Liberals. I cannot understand that, as there are so many possibilities to choose other forms of society in which the state does not interfere, which nevertheless give rights, but do not demand obligations, do not choose them and the marriage and everything the state regulates in them is so damned. Something he has to regulate, because we live in a rule of law and in a legal area. This law certainly has good parts. But I can take a point that is very disturbing to me. This is § 68a regarding the indebted-independent maintenance. I think you have to explain once to the spouse – not always the husband – that he has done something for what the other has done to him – and he has done something to him: it's bothered life; I don't know if you've already experienced something like this in your circle of friends and acquaintances, I've experienced it close by – I have to pay. He has to pay for it for a long time, five years too. It is not the old woman of the regularity, which will be turned off sometime and will certainly not find so many lovers that it pays off that the husband doesn't want to pay her for it. I just don't think so! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Now it's going to be exciting!]] It's the young woman with the kids! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: For this we have the regulations!]] Yes, Mrs Brinek, this is the young woman who suddenly cannot only be realized in the children themselves, but also needs a homefriend. Then the husband is supposed to pay for it – against this I am, on the other hand, I keep myself! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think you shouldn't reassess the remaining risk to the innocent, the residual risk that we've heard so much about in criminal proceedings. We can't tolerate that! Unfortunately, I no longer have a speaking time, although I still thought of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7678	Mr Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7702	Mr Ofner, on the other hand, claimed that child injury is out of court. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] To this end, he cited the Criminal Code, which is § 207. It is wrong that § 207 is out of court to do so! – Rather, it is true that only those offences are disversible before the individual judge. According to § 13 of the Criminal Code, however, rape, sexual necessity, incest and fornication are to be dealt with with with with with by unmistakable persons before the schöfensenat, and thus not to be compensated.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7747	Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7769	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not have much speaking time at my disposal, but I would like to focus briefly on what colleague Höbinger, Höbinger – Höbinger – teacher, has always tried to act here as a teacher – in my opinion quite wrong. [[Abg. Scheibner: Höbinger!]] In addition to all that the Members of my group have already mentioned, it is important for me to point out that this ghost, the young woman who takes the tennis teacher, the young woman who burns with a loved one and then makes himself pay by the husband, is no different in this case. Obviously you have not even read the template, because in this case, of course, there are no maintenance claims. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But go!]] They deliberately banish what it's all about. It is a question of ensuring that those young women who care for their children receive existential protection, and that women, especially older women who have been caring for the children for years and who have kept the household, are not on the streets without maintenance, without life assurance. If we did not regulate this today, that would be the case, because it was so in the past. I am therefore very glad that we will decide on this today – as the first step. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Prammer mentioned those cases in which women are not subject to maintenance, even though they have cared for the children for 20, 30 years and have managed the household, although they can only deal with young children under great difficulties of employment. For example, if the woman does not visit the man in the hospital when the bout is displayed, there are reasons for not having to be paid a maintenance. Who is to judge today – the judges in the divorce process? – if the principle of indebtedness applies, which transactions have taken place in a 10, 20, 30-year marriage? Federal Minister! I would like to conclude by thanking you and your department, but also the Federal Ministry of Women for this paper and saying: This is the case in a survey on the subject of women and law, in which a well-known lawyer is entitled "What do women expect from justice?" She said – in particular, she stressed the word "wait" – that: And they're waiting for everything. All the services of the judicial system must be provided by women in particular. Today we have taken one step further, and I am glad that we do not have to wait any longer on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7821	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7842	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! At the end of the debate on family law reform – it has already been tried today – in the 1970s there was a scientific work by Oskar Lehner. He has, as it were, mentioned claims in a summary in the outlooks and wished their fulfillment. I would like to mention this today at the end of this debate on family law reform, on this novel. I quote: As a reform project to be dealt with, there is a great divorce reform waiting. Key problems will be the enforcement of the principle of destruction and, in particular, the question of the link between maintenance and destruction. - Quote. If, under applicable law, a financially independent person is to be divorced, he shall lose his marriage, but not his economic existence. On the other hand, an economically dependent guilty spouse also loses its material basis. In other words – according to Oskar Lehner –: The spouse, who is not employed but who leads the household and cares for the children, must behave more disciplinedly in the marriage and must not risk divorce for economic reasons and economic reasons. As this is mainly true of women in Austria, a general reform of the right of divorce would be another necessary step towards the creation of equal opportunities for women. – On this point we have moved on, and that is not a question of right and left, but a question of equality, a question of justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] If we decide on these measures today, I must say: This is not enough for me in one provision or another. I would have preferred it if § 90 ABGB – as was provided for in the Ministerial Draft – would no longer be available if one were to otherwise regulate the protection of agricultural workers, the farmer, namely in social law and not in marriage. It's still going to be implemented. Family policy is a permanent process. It is also a very ideological process. But I would like us not only to understand social processes from politics, but also to take various steps with which we can work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Finally – the speaking time is short – I would also like to thank you once again, especially for the explanations, but also for the cover. It really contains everything for the legal user, as almost no misunderstandings can arise. This is what the family judges and lawyers can really do. I would like to thank Dr. Stabentheiner, Dr. Stormann, Dr. Hopf, and also the Minister of Justice and Mr Jarolim for the Langmut. It was really not easy to make that decision. – It brings more justice, especially for women!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7900	Mr Dr. Ofner is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Second word; voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7922	I'm leaving out all the titles to be able to take a short shot. Mrs Fekter is right: There is self-reliance of the court at § 207. But so that it doesn't get that funny, I'm allowed to quote other provisions from the same area of the moral offences – I say this in the same way as contradiction; if anyone finds something against it, he's supposed to say it at the same time – the sexual necessity according to § 202,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7948	This is also a speech, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7964	... the pornographic representations with unmistakables – the child pornography as we have always called it – according to § 207a, the moral hazard of persons under 16 years of age after § 208, the same-sex inbreeding with persons under 18 years of age according to § 209, the incest according to § 211 and the misuse of an authority in this context according to § 212 and the holding company according to § 216. So: I take back § 207, but I think the selection remains very interesting anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e7997	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1926 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stoisits and comrades submitted an additional or amendment request. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled additional or amendments to Dr Schmidt and Comrades. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals, according to the series, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1(44) into Article I. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to stand for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. There is therefore also a lack of coordination of the requested amendment to the terms of reference. In addition, Members Dr. Schmidt and Comrades have also tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1(44) in Article I, which contains the same content as the previous supplementary request of the Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have, but is not word-identical. Whoever stands for it, may give a corresponding sign. – This is also the minority. The request is therefore rejected. In this case too, there is a lack of coordination of the requested amendment to the terms of reference. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment which is of a kind. I Z 1 § 90 and a new version of § 1481 in Z 5. If you want to agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. There is once again a lack of a vote on the amendment to the terms of reference requested. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I points 1 and 5 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request to insert a new Z7 in Art. I concerning the deletion of § 1486a. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Deputies Dr. Schmidt and Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph 1(1) in Art. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. There is therefore also a need to vote on the requested amendment to the terms of reference. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades also submitted an amendment to Art. II. C. 1 which provides for a recast of § 1. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. II. Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stoisits and comrades tabled an amendment which is in a way similar to that proposed. II Z 4 § 68a. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the same provision as the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Therefore adopted. Deputies Dr. Schmidt and comrades as well as deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades each have a similar additional request on the type. IV Z 2 § 321 para. 1 C. 1 which, according to the word "married person", provides for the insertion of the word sequence "his other or equal-sex partner" and a change in the number designation. I shall therefore vote on these two proposals under one. If you want to agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Schmidt and comrades a further request on Art. IV Z. 2 § 321 para. 1 C. 1 introduced. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. There is once again a lack of a vote on the amendment to the terms of reference requested. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I notice: The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 2. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1775 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the antitrust law in 1988 (KartGNov, 1999 - KartGNov. 1999) (1923 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution 1056/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller and comrades on the maintenance of competition and market economy through a stronger antitrust law (1924 of the supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution 52/A (E) by Mr Jörg Haider and others on the reform of insolvency law in order to improve the possibilities for rehabilitation (1925)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8184	I now call on points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8212	Mr President. Federal Minister! The antitrust law in force even after the Minister's explanations, is only a small step towards an efficient antitrust law. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that in the matter of antitrust law, as with various other materials, it was not possible to achieve in this House within this legislative period the result that the government parties had undertaken. Whether it is the media area in which a complete failure of the government parties is to be complained, or also the antitrust field now in place: It all stays with the old; it is only a small step forward. Even when these antitrust legislation is adopted, those who make up for it say: There is already a new need for reform! Ladies and gentlemen! Here I ask the question: What kind of law do we have to adopt here in the House if we say already on the day of the decision-making - not only do we represent this opinion from the opposition, but we also say that representatives of the government parties already on the day of the decision-making process - that this antitrust legislation is not sufficient? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that a greater declaration of bankruptcy of government policy in the field of antitrust law is hardly imaginable in the area of media law. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already seen that the antitrust area in Austria is a papermaker. If we look beyond the edge of the plate, we note that other countries have a completely different antitrust right, namely, a much sharper antitrust law, a really efficient antitrust law for the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. Only recently, for example, the company Hofmann-La Roche and the German chemical group BASF, which had merged into an illegal cartel in the field of vitamins, voluntarily committed themselves to the US Ministry of Justice for a fine of 10 billion schillings. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that the antitrust law, if properly formulated, is quite able to help the small merchant to the jumps to favour him. How is it in Austria? – In Austria, antitrust law is not efficient. This has finally been seen on the question of the merger of Rewe and Meinl. When the horrendous second was over, the Minister of Economic Affairs declared that this was not a problem for him, he moved the matter from Brussels to Austria, and here in Austria it was decided that this merger was illegal. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the EIA Minister for Economic Affairs has a lot to do with it this time and is trying to make the public an X for a U, because the antitrust authorities in Brussels have not agreed to the administration of this in Austria by the antitrust and antitrust court, but have shown the Minister of Economic Affairs the long nose and decided for himself. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not satisfied, and the small and medium-sized business in Austria cannot be satisfied with the statement and with the judicate of the Brussels authorities in connection with this merger, because what can be done to block the only food business for the local supply in Enns, the Ennser Stadtplatz, for a antitrust decision by Brussels, which provides the Rewe Group and the Meinl Group? This cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Justice would be asked to remedy this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the question of the prohibition of sale under the price of income: We are in principle in favour of providing assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. Even the Constitutional Court has said that there is a public interest in maintaining local services by preventing the removal of small and medium-sized enterprises on the market. Ladies and gentlemen! This public interest does not take the interest of the ÖVP, which, in its Sunday speeches, speaks of helping small and medium-sized traders. No word of that is true, quite the contrary: There is no medium-sized policy, there is no policy for the small trader, for example, on the issue of non-taxation of the unabsorbed profit. These small structures are ultimately destroyed by the laws you advocated by the Economic Union here in the High House. A toothless antitrust law does not become an efficient antitrust law if you plant a single tooth.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8283	Mr Jarolim has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Also the cartel law novels discussed today is a novel that could have been decided, of course, but the proposal should not in itself be underestimated. As regards Mr Krüger's speech, the following must be said: It is not necessary to refer to the U.S. Ministry of Justice in order to show that very high, dissuasive penalties can be imposed. The European authorities too can do this. The European Cartel Act is in itself a very sharp law. It has, as we all know, led, for example, to substantial fines at VW. That is to say, the European framework for an effective antitrust law exists. The Austrian antitrust law is also much stronger in the current version than it may give rise to the appearance. If one finds in the Government's proposal the sentence that the Minister of Economic Affairs has announced in the future that the right of application granted to the Federal Government will be used to a greater extent in the future, this is probably the proof that in the past the existing legal instruments have clearly not been used enough. I would therefore appeal that, if we discuss amendments here and finally decide, we should also take into account all that would be possible because of the existing standards. Although legal application and legislation are different pairs of shoes, they must be taken into account in each case. The core definition of the antitrust amendment is the power of office. In the future, the antitrust court will be able to examine on its own initiative – which is particularly important in the area of merger law – whereas at present, the official parties may submit an application for an examination if they are concerned. We know – and this is also stated in the government paper – that there are cases where such needs are not identified. That is why I think this measure is good. In addition, however, it should also be said that we are continuing to discuss the person of a antitrust attorney whom we have called for, because it is certainly useful to create something beyond the current rules that ensures that the existing regime is applied even more decisively. In total, this is a law that points in the right direction. The debate must not end, it must continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8348	Mr Mag. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8369	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, yes, Mr. Dr. Jarolim! The debate must continue. – You do not give us a full antitrust right as a template, but you let the National Council decide once upon an intermediate position. I don't think that's very satisfying. Federal Minister! You know, of course, the last OECD report, which gives us an overview of progress in resolving the OECD proposals with regard to an independent competition authority. The government has replied that it will agree on limited reforms. That's right. The OECD is right to say: As a task, a review will be carried out in accordance with the requirements of EU legislation and the completion of reforms, including the creation of a new independent competition authority. - That's the whole cracking point. The key point in your legislative proposals is to try to get across this independent antitrust authority. So they make the cartel court at the same time as the prosecutor; it is prosecutor and judge at the same time. Then there are the social partners, who may be even more prosecutors and experts and who are still sitting as judges. This is a kind of jurisdiction that, I believe, ruled during the French Revolution. But the judgments were already settled in the past. Ladies and gentlemen! The antitrust law is far too important as it is to be further developed here in very small steps. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Our markets are changing so quickly that the market-free must ensure fair conditions of competition. Just as it is an original state task to define the economic environment in the social, environmental, economic and legal spheres, it is also an original state task to monitor competition in markets. Of course, it is the goal of every company – whether it is the fuel wearers in Austria, the mineral oil companies, the brewing company AG, the KROKUWAZ or many others – that each company is in a position to achieve a monopoly and thus ultimately exploit the market and the customers. But it is an original state task to prevent and guarantee precisely these tendencies via a cartel lawyer, who automatically observes the market, Dr. Jarolim, that the discovery process in the market can only work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You are in favour of a government group in the Committee on Justice, and you are responsible for this bill which you have presented to us. But this is far from enough, Doctor. They know he's not enough. Why do you not have the courage to say, together with a party-independent Justice Minister, that there are resistances from the social partners: We don't need you as prosecutors, judges and judges!Unknown term type: "%s".? What we need is an independent antitrust authority, a antitrust attorney established in the field of the Minister of Justice, who has the same rights and obligations as a public prosecutor in Austria, who can, of course, access the instruments of the economic police and all the findings from the preliminary investigations and the preliminary surveys that guarantee that dominant positions cannot be used at the expense of consumers or at the expense of the suppliers or at the expense of the suppliers; there are cartels on both sides – in the area of suppliers and in the area of demand. Today, in a "grandious" press release, the Economic Association has informed us how great the regulated ban on sales under the price of income for the improvement of local supply is. – That's another ÖVP placebo. Mrs. Dr. Fekter, you don't even think you can control the purchase price! What kind of bureaucracy do you want to hotten there? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you want to keep looking?]] Mr Hartlauer said quite clearly in a press release: Look, if I want to sell movies, movies or anything cheaper, I get an invoice from my suppliers from Japan, America or elsewhere, which is exactly the price of revenue, which makes me still cheaper than a small dealer at 20 percent. You can't regulate that. They cannot protect local services by means of regulations. But you can do the following: They can give local suppliers the opportunity to move faster and faster by liberalising the trade regulations, opening times and so on. What you now decide to do with the ban on selling under the price of income is absolute economic policy holler. It doesn't work. It's pointless. It can't be controlled. It doesn't work. Mrs. Dr. Fekter! The bad thing is, you know that, and yet... – But that's not true! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You want to watch and make the big ones bigger and let the little ones die!]] You don't get anything, Mrs. Fekter, and you know you can't do anything with that. This is a placebo that you can pass through the business community in your broadcasts. You can't control the sale under the income price. It cannot be controlled in an open economy. You know that, and you're still putting people in front of you an X for a U. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] – These regulations do not work there either, Mrs. Fekter, because they are not controllable. You know that, I know. You do it anyway, so that you can make the close-up caretakers any hope that will lead to nothing. Federal Minister! The cartel law novel – you know it anyway – that you have presented to us is really just a first tough step. It is better than nothing, but our consent will not be able to get you on such steps. Ladies and gentlemen! Deregulation only leads to more competition and therefore to better performance for consumers when it takes place on functioning markets. This should guarantee the antitrust law. On application 52/A (E) by Dr. Haider: There was an old gentleman slipping on the agenda again, but now an insolvency change law, a company reorganisation law has been passed. This company reorganisation law should actually replace the "chapter 11-procedure". Federal Minister! As long as you and we do not enforce, however, that there is also a tax exemption from the profits of restructuring, Mrs Fekter, as the chairman of the Committee on Justice, knows that this company reorganisation law is a parliamentary body. It has not been used to this day, and it has been in force for over a year. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: Preventive only!]] - But that's nice what you've come to think of now. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: I have already said this in the debate here!]] - Good. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're holding on to this. We have passed a law of prevention which is so good that no one is going to argue and need it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: Less!]] - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8482	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8503	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! – Yes, I believe so, Mr Haigermoser! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is not the day of feces today!]] To debate judicial matters at the beginning of the agenda, that is the day of feces. [[Abg. Haigermoser: One fat nap after another!]] If, otherwise, we always hold judicial debates late at midnight, we are happy today that we even have listeners. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: A bad day!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is just an observation of what you do in the ranks of the ÖVP!]] The topic is: distorted competition through cartel-like mergers; distorted competition, which has led to massive headlines in the media, for example, the German Rewe Group, which has already swallowed the Billa food chain, also takes over parts of Julius Meinl. [[Unrest in the liberals]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]] Or, for example, in Austria, a scandal in the construction industry will be known companies should have formed a kind of cartel through price agreements and finged offers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The worst thing about the whole thing is that you obviously believe what you say!]] There is also the headline that, for weeks now, large food chains are supposed to sell different products under the price of maintenance. Or remember the debate that we have held here in the House on the alleged high price of petrol! All of these distorted competition situations through cartel-like mergers have led to the innovation of antitrust law so that the market can function so that fairer conditions exist. I am not as pessimistic as you are, Mr Peter, I believe that we are creating very fairer conditions with the current regulations. There is once the usual examination procedure. I do not think it is so hopeless that the antitrust court takes up abuses on its own initiative and that the examination procedure is properly initiated there. It is also true that we are standardizing the prohibition principle of behavioural cartels. From my point of view, this is a big step in the direction you want. [[Abg. May. Peter: What about the association recommendations? Is there still that?]] It is also true that by law we define legal assumptions: for example, with a market share of at least 30 percent there is a dominant position. It is also established that the actual unwarranted sale under the maintenance price constitutes an abuse position, that there is market abuse. [[Abg. May. Peter: How high is the purchase price at Schotter?]] This also entails a return of evidence; the same applies to inappropriate payment periods and late payment interest. It is also true that we are innovation the elimination of the obligation to notify certain baggage areas and that we are performing a slight increase in the thresholds for login-necessary mergers. But you didn't criticize that. You have criticized the fact that, for the first time, Mr Peter, we have actually done something for small and medium-sized people. I would prefer to take one step at a time, even if it may not be enough, but we have taken at least one step with it. Together with the usual procedure, the ban on sales at the reasonable price may, however, help to provide local services. It is true that today the price struggle measures, the so-called price-sliding, are specifically operated by the greats against the little ones. The meaning and purpose of this price sluggishing are lock offers, special offers – you know this – in order to deceive consumers in a certain way, because they are preoccupied with economic power, which may not be given, or that other items that may be sold at higher prices are also sold. This is an international problem, Mr Peter. I do not think your criticism is justified because at international level countries are protected in a similar way to us – in favour of the small ones! In Switzerland and Spain, for example, we depend on whether the price required is a deception of the consumer or whether it also involves a deception about the competitor. In France and Belgium, for example, the sale of losses is strictly prohibited, and in Germany there have been since 1. In January 1999, a system of antitrust law applicable to the sale of products under the price. So what is so wrong with the fact that in Austria we also want to protect our small and medium-sized enterprises and have presented a novel that will certainly take this approach into account?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8633	Mr Scheibner has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8655	Mr President. My speech on business matters is not directly related to the current item on the agenda. However, with regard to the reports on the burden of Austrian food with dioxin, I have received information that there are still dioxin loads in food, especially in foods whose target group is children, i.e. in sweets, and that there is no sufficient control of these and no sufficient information on these loads. There is no even possibility in Austria to enforce appropriate control measures. Yesterday we also received a report that a feed holding had been closed. I have just received the information that this closure took only one hour. I therefore request, Mr President, that a presidential meeting be convened, which should deal with the question of whether Mrs Prammer and Mr Molterer should report to Parliament during the current session and make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8685	In the current session days, did you mean? [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes!]] . Then I would suggest that, as the other club members are not in plenary, and we do not want to interrupt the negotiations on the agenda as much as possible, I will make it known to the other presidents and club members. We will discuss this during the current plenary session and perhaps hold a presidential one at a time. Then we continue in the speaker list. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8715	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the government paper on the November 1999 cartel law, there is a very remarkable overview. On page 5, the proposed changes to this novel are explained – which is about so much so that you can see it visually – and on the next page, on page 6, under the item "Continue the reform discussion", the government counts, since it is a government template that should or will happen on what is actually going to happen. [[the speaker shows a small distance with thumb and pointing finger]] But that's so much – just to give you a visual indication of how intensely this novelle has failed from its contents. [[the speaker shows a greater distance with thumb and pointing finger]] What is still missing, and what I mean, not ironically now, but seriously – the Federal Minister – he has also been assured in the Committee – is a necessary step in the reform of the antitrust law, is far more than the reform that is going on today, although I do not hide that what is the substance of the reform is quite welcome and, in principle, is not a deterioration of the current legal situation in the sense of what we imagine, but is basically positive. Ladies and gentlemen! But very important points that have been shown in recent years have not been included. Mr Peter has already mentioned an essential point in his statement: Despite the introduction of the power of the antitrust procedure, the opportunity to reorganise the antitrust jurisdiction has not been observed. Such specific forms, the Austrian speciality, for example, that the social partners – with "social partners" are the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Federal Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture – are in the Austrian antitrust court in a process at the same time as prosecutors, experts and judges, and no one finds anything in it, can no longer be regarded as compatible with the principles of the rule of law. And there has been no step in changing that. – This is one of the most important criticisms that it refers to what is not contained in the novel. But it is still important for me to mention a second point to justify the rejection of this novel from the Greens, namely the question of freedom of the media, the diversity of the media, which is a particularly sensitive question of democracy policy. As part of the last major innovation in 1993, special media provisions were also included in the Austrian antitrust law, with experience in practice showing that remedial improvements would be necessary. This is mainly about the public abuse of market power, and this has not been fully taken into account in this innovation. Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of the very sensitive points if there is no provision in media cartel law in this regard. We all know, and we are confronted, as it were, with the effects of these legal provisions every day. No one here is so blue-eyed to say that unbundling provisions are necessary, simply so spoke into the blue, but it is indeed demanded by all serious that, if there were to be an end to the improvement of those companies, the beneficiaries of the provisions of the new antitrust law, that is, all that entered into force after 1993, even if there was a retroactive unbundling, of course, this would have been done within the framework of reasonable transitional provisions. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, a legal basis, namely the need and the need, should also be created for the examination of concentrations carried out just before the last novel. But, please, that's not included in this novel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As it is about such a democratically sensitive point, we cannot be satisfied with this very small novice, which bears witness to everything, only by the much-priced labour energy of this Federal Government, namely the two coalition parties, as far as the contentive design force is concerned. That is why we reject this novelle today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8773	Mr Michalek, Federal Minister for Justice, has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8794	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The antitrust law novel to you today is by no means merely a good advance for an overall reform that is urgently needed – but it has been so said in the Committee – but it represents a very independent further important step in the direction of a gradual further development of Austrian cartel law. [[Abg. May. Peter: There was no talk of "hasty"! We've waited long enough!]] In the review procedure, all the auditing bodies, in particular the votes from practice, as from the fields of judges, lawyers and also the legal scientists, have clearly confirmed and welcomed the novelle unanimously. As far as the content is concerned, I would like to refer to the substance of the draft law, so to speak, namely the possibility of the antitrust court to take action, a step forward, which should increase the effectiveness of our antitrust law, particularly in the area of merger control. This change has been raised by various sides, so to speak, of different directions. On the one hand, the rule of law should be concerned that the cartel court is at the same time, in a certain way, prosecutors and judges. I have to say that it is quite common for me to intervene in the extradition procedure and that, moreover, the general principle is also in international comparison, by the antitrust authorities. This applies both to the much-priced German cartel office and to the Commission as the EC competition authority. The other objection goes back to the fact that the cartel court would not be able to fulfil the task he had in future with regard to his limited human resources. However, I would like to point out that the newly introduced, from my point of view, is not, like for the German antitrust office, the only and comprehensive basis of its activity, but only an additional possibility in those cases where the previous system, based on applications by official parties and, where applicable, on the reasons for which it is always not effective, is not effective. At all events, I would say that it is by no means the case that our Austrian antitrust law has serious deficits in the material field or in the possibility of its enforcement against comparable legal systems, such as in the Federal Republic of Germany or in comparison with EC law. Of course, there are several ways to reach the goal, and some improvement is still to be discussed. However, in any event, it is a real Austrian achievement to give the trader concerned the right of application and the party's position in the antitrust proceedings, which neither in Germany's competition law nor in the EC's competition law. We are of course aware that it will be necessary to provide human resources to the antitrust court both in the judicial field and in the field of academically trained assistants. But it will be able to keep that within limits. We are trying to take account of this need and have already made the appropriate requests in the Ministry of Finance. We are also aware of this – it has already been pointed to the long passages in general in part of the explanatory remarks – that the development of the Austrian antitrust law with this novel is not provisionally completed either. The legislator will also be required to adapt, especially in this area, the legal system to the permanent changes in economic life that we face not least in an increasingly united Europe. For good reason, therefore, the explanations refer to the continuation of the reform discussion. In concrete terms, various concerns have been expressed in the discussions carried out in the preparation of the Government template by individual parties, including us, which have not been included in the Government template, because they need further in-depth discussion, taking into account the experience gained with the application of this amendment. These questions also include the creation of a nationally competent antitrust attorney, which has already been mentioned today. Even if such an institution is required by different sides, its legal bases, in particular its position between the cartel court and the responsible department manager, as well as the details of the powers and the organisation, must be considered in detail. In the ongoing discussion, we will also have to consider further development at European level. For example, a change in the starting position for our further reflections on the interaction of antitrust law and EC competition law could result from the fact that, as you know, the Commission is making plans to extend substantially the application of EC competition law by the competent authorities of the Member States which are already possible and required to extend significantly within certain limits and in this respect also on a new legal basis. This could, of course, result in a much greater need for adjustment in national law. These too would be circumstances that we would have to take into account in further efforts to develop our Austrian antitrust law on a progressive basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8833	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Heinzl has now been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8857	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A number of striking events, such as the Rewe-Miel merger, have again resulted in a discussion of the current antitrust law in 1998. That is also necessary. I believe that our antitrust law is urgently in need of improvement. The amendments to be decided today are actually going in the right direction, but in my opinion they are too little. As stated in the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal, this amendment is limited to those amendments to which agreement could be reached in principle and which do not otherwise face difficulties. I believe that we should also strive for changes which, while facing difficulties, are essential. I find it very unfortunate that the creation of a federal lawyer for competition control was not possible. This federal attorney, Hohes Haus, should be established as an independent authority at the Ministry of Justice, have all civil infringements of the antitrust law on its own initiative and have a full right of application for the control of the mergers. The establishment of such a federal lawyer was proposed by my group, but unfortunately could not be enforced due to opposition from the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the explanations on the government template mentioned above, the Federal Minister for Justice has also stated that there is a need to continue the reform debate after the adoption of this amendment, and I would like to fully endorse it. A continuation of the reform discussion is therefore necessary because a functioning social market economy needs a genuine antitrust right. That is why I am surprised that parts of the ÖVP or representatives of the economy are so hesitant in the continuation of the antitrust law. In fact, it is true that antitrust education is a major damage to the market economy and that legislative intervention in this area is urgently needed in order to enable a genuinely functioning social market economy to take place. It is not at all the case, ladies and gentlemen, that the market economy will work well if the legislator exercises as little influence as possible. This is an illusion that many sit up, but it's a basic fake. Only suitable framework conditions guarantee a healthy market economy and healthy market conditions. High house! Today's decision-making of the 1999 antitrust legislation has succeeded in making progress in this area of law, which is of great importance to the economy as well as to consumers in our country. However, I would like to remind you once again that the antitrust law in particular requires continuous development and adaptation to new conditions and that we must therefore continue today's debate in the future, even if there is resistance.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8904	Mr Haigermoser is also on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e8925	High house! Federal Minister! They have almost acted as if the concentration problem in the economy had only existed since today. A few minutes before the end of this legislative period They therefore discover that something should be done, but then actually do inadequate or too little. And that's embarrassing, Minister of State. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] For many years, there has been an increase in the demand for discussion and proposals which have led to the introduction of a modern, progressive and non-talkless antitrust law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger has already said that you have actually given only one tooth to all the antitrust law. In fact, you have not dealt with the problem of local supply and economic damage caused by this concentration process as a whole. They went freely on the political stage according to the motto: "In case of adverse reactions, ask a doctor or pharmacist." They were the doctor, and Mr. Farnleitner was the pharmacist. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He got into the wrong box. The whole drama or the embarrassment in Rewe-Miel has already been mentioned today. Federal Minister! It is – and this has also been confirmed by all sides – not at all slowed down with this novelle, it is no longer produced market, but the big ones are already laughing in the fists today. This is the problem that has arisen in connection with Rewe or Meinl, when Mr Farnleitner first wanted to use the Austrian antitrust law to come to a success, and then pilgrimaged to Brussels, with all the embarrassments that exist in the fact that, as Krüger has already said, the only local supplier had to lock in a place due to a van Miert decision. This is reflected in the fact that a recent EU White Paper on the antitrust situation on page 22 says that the decentralisation of the application of competition rules has a future. And you are talking today about the EU actually having to solve the problem. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] That's right, with the multis, Community law is... [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] Federal Minister! I quote – and I'm curious about what you're going to say: In a Community extended to more than 20 Member States, a central authority can no longer efficiently organise and therefore no longer justify the finding and acknowledgment of the infringements of competition. – That is to say, national law must be strengthened. Once the EU is ready to federalise and exhort national law, and then don't do it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's how sad you are. Then it goes on to say: The state courts are more able to give effect to certain claims of the complainant – end. Well, but do that. You don't. The whole thing is toothless, Mr. Federal Minister. You've been caught once again! 4 to 5 is the note for this law which you have presented to us today! We have called for separate voting because at least we are trying to improve the price of sales in order to prohibit sales. We want to see if there are opportunities to improve something, just as in these Quasi blackmail attempts – let's call it popular – the multis in the price range. Here you should introduce a crime. We shall vote separately, ladies and gentlemen, because, as has been said, the spot in the hand is more important than the dove on the roof. A final remark: Gugerbauer, one of Austria's cartel specialists, has also suggested – because you have said so loosely that there would have been fire and flame in the review; well, there are some who think otherwise – that you could have done a lot with fines, with severe fines, and should not proceed according to the motto: We just lock the managers in, and then the thing is done. We say: High fines against corporations Penalties for managers! It would have been better, Mr Federal Minister, if you had complied with these demands and if you had, above all, complied with the recent White Paper of the Community, to implement the relevant things or to create instruments to limit this market power – to protect local supply, to protect the medium-sized economy, to protect the small and medium-sized economy. You have remained guilty of a lot, and it is sad that Mrs Fekter has already joined the fatnap today – as in other areas – and has not maintained the interests that would have benefited the entire economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9013	Mr Schrefel has also been mentioned on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9035	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard enough about the occasions for the amendment of the antitrust law. This ministerial draft of the Minister of Justice, in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the social partners were involved, was sent to the general review, was largely approved and constitutes a further development of the antitrust law. The judicial committee has the government template referred to above. Negotiating on June. The focus of the novels is the scheme whereby at least 30 % of the market share is linked to the irrefutable presumption of the existence of a dominant position. Another important point: an express arrangement of sales below the income price as a misuse of a dominant position. – Here, the dominant undertaking is required to bear the burden of proof that, despite the appearance of a sale under the price of income, there is no such thing and that in such a case this behaviour is justified. In principle, the new regulation assumes that actual price reductions and discounts are to be taken into account when calculating the price of income. The sale under the price should therefore no longer be possible. This price terror has increasingly turned the price spiral downwards, and especially the recent dioxin scandal has shown that the sharp competition and price pressure are part of the cause of such derailments, especially in the food trade. We must note that the best is not necessarily at the best price and that there are also limits of liberalism for the quality of food. It is simply not possible to demand ever more expensive products and at the same time always cheaper products. Quality now has its price, and that the consumer in the supermarket is taking a lower price and in doing so the fear of genetic chemistry & co at the cash desk is also common good. Finally, the new antitrust law also makes it possible to step in – as we have already heard – if this is necessary in the public interest. So far, the vulnerability was that the antitrust law could only be used at the request of a party. This power of action can therefore be justified by the safeguarding of public interest. The present draft, together with the amendment, represents the implementation of the solution found in technical discussion and was also adopted in the Committee on Justice - partly unanimously, partly by majority of votes - and I can ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for the widest possible consent to this antitrust amendment law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9087	Mrs Huber has also been mentioned. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9108	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The antitrust measures decided today are very welcome. However, it has also been said several times that these are only steps – steps in the right direction, namely to increase fairness and fairer conditions in the market, even for consumers. I, too, see the central point of this novel. It has just been a genuine vulnerability that the cartel court has been able to act only at the request of a party and has therefore been able to examine and, where appropriate, to prohibit mergers by the cartel court only if an official party has filed an application for an examination. Secondly, I think it is an important step that the prohibition principle of behaviour cartels be extended and that, thirdly, there are explicit arrangements for selling under the income price as a misuse of a dominant position. These are rules that bring more fairness to the economy, which include a certain level of protection for local suppliers, but which are also intended to protect consumers from being deceived in these areas. However, I believe that the discussion on further innovations, on further proposals – a central point would be, for example, the German antitrust attorney, who is equipped with the rights and obligations of a prosecutor to pursue all civil infringements of antitrust law – must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9145	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9166	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One thing was quite clear about the criticism of the opposition to this antitrust law in 1999: This does not make the legislation worse, but improves it. – First observation. And the second finding is: The reform debate on antitrust must continue nationally and throughout Europe. Let me explain this. It has recently been presented by the Commission, as the Federal Minister has already said, the White Paper on the modernisation of the rules for the application of Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty. And if Mr Haigermoser quotes a passage, I would ask him to quote it completely next time, because this passage is as follows: It is essential that decentralisation does not lead to disagreements in the application of Community competition law. What does this project want in the framework of the European Union? . The Commission is addressing various reform options in the White Paper and is finally proposing a system that meets the following objectives – Mr Haigermoser, and this discussion is still under way: consistent enforcement of competition rules, effective decentralisation, simplification of procedures and uniform application of law and policy throughout the European Union. The application of EU competition rules will thus be jointly guaranteed by the EU Commission and national courts in future – the emphasis, Mr Haigermoser, is on: in the future, because the discussion process is not completed at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Commission invites Member States and all other institutions and interested parties to continue until 30. Its comments were made in September 1999. Federal Minister! I would ask you to continue the discussion on this antitrust law, to take into account the new media antitrust issues in the Internet and in the audiovisual field, and I can invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept this proposal, because this will improve the legal situation in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9206	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. As the rapporteur does not wish for a final word, we shall vote, and I would therefore ask that the places be taken. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1775, taking into account the amendment to the Committee's report in 1923. There is a request for separate vote made by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. IZ 10a as amended by the Committee's report 1923 of the Supplements and Art. IZ 11, 12 and 13 as amended by the Government template 1775 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is also done by the majority; therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, too, to give an appropriate sign. – This too is the majority. I notice: The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report in 1924. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. I notice: The report has been taken note of. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of his 1925 report of the supplements. If you would also like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report is also taken note of. 5. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the report (III-154 of the Supplements and III-154 of Supplements) of the Federal Minister for Science and Transport on the Austrian Federal Roadmap Plan (BVWP) and on the Master Plan (1927 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution 954/A (E) by Mrs Gabriela Moser and others on the development of an Austrian transport plan (1928) 7. Point Report by the Transport Committee on motion for a resolution 728/A (E) by Mr Peter Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the alternative to the Semmering Base Tunnel (1929 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9327	I now call on Agenda items 5 to 7, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are taking part in the deliberations. However, I would like to interrupt the meeting before and ask the clubmen or vice-presidents of the clubmen to the Bureau to discuss a matter here very briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9360	High house! I'll start the interrupted session again. I just want to say: It was a question of whether a statement on dioxin incidents was made by Mrs Prammer in the context of the agenda. An agreement has been reached between the club members that, without supplementing the agenda, without applying any other parliamentary means, such a statement will be made. I now call as the first speaker in this debate, Mr Mag. Firlinger opens. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9398	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! At the same time as my contribution to the debate, I would like to point out that, like its predecessors, schools and climates, the Federal Minister has failed to fulfil a clear mandate from the National Council. Federal Minister! You know, there is a resolution of the National Council of 9 May. February 1995 – this is now four and a half years old – after which the Minister of Transport was asked to develop a single federal road map with the development of infrastructure priorities and a clear financing concept for all transport routes. Federal Minister! That hasn't happened to this day! I have repeatedly drawn your attention to this, Mr Federal Minister, to the Committee and to other matters, including the Subcommittee, and I also wanted to know why you refuse to comply with this request. However, I have not received an answer from you, at least not an answer that goes to the very core of the matter. Instead, I have had to hear a few opinions from representatives of the government parties in the committee, which read as follows: This is, anyway, only one motion for a resolution which follows at the end of the XIX. The legislative period has expired. – Ladies and gentlemen! This shows how serious decisions of this House are – unanimous decisions! - to be taken. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What we were presented, however, Mr Federal Minister, and what was under discussion for two months, were two grid drawings, a network rule and a tripartite comment. This is a truly poor result and, basically, an increase in Parliament, because this Parliament has earned more, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What the public has recorded instead, Minister of State, were endless disputes of competence between the Red Minister of Railway and the Black Minister for Road Construction. These disputes of competence range from a different approach before the Brussels authorities to the unexplained responsibility for traffic lights at tunnel construction sites. That's what the public has recorded very well. Federal Minister! I asked you a lot of things, and you then answered me that it is not really your job to set the priorities. Furthermore, funding was also ensured by the Rail Infrastructure Financing Act. This answer is indeed not satisfactory. There is no answer at all, and for this reason I have also asked Mr Farnleitner the same question. What Mr Farnleitner said was also very disillusioning, for he represented and expressed the view that he would not want to pre-empt any race regulations in the planning. I'm sorry, but That's it. He doesn't want any race regulations. The Federal Minister, your colleague, has more to say. Ladies and gentlemen! With the adoption of the Master Plan, another sad chapter in the history of Austrian transport policy takes an uncanny end. Instead of presenting a transport concept with a forward-looking trend, with validity for the beginning of the next century and millennium, the government parties have agreed on a loose, non-binding statement of intent in transport policy, which is reflected in a very vague motion for a resolution. This was the result for months, even if not even years of discussions. If, for example, the resolution says that the Federal Government should examine some network additions, and then give examples such as four-way extension of the West Railway, new construction of the Koralm Railway, a gap between the existing motorway and highway network, construction of second tunnel tubes and so on, then the loud "nona" declarations, Mr. Federal Minister, are not measures that can be considered as a concrete conclusion of a long-term term term term of two ministers. Federal Minister! It's not enough for me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The citizen and the citizen are really not interested in such a issue, which is contained in the motion for a resolution. Instead, the citizens are interested in the concrete construction measures that will solve the increasingly unbearable transit disaster, the citizens are interested when they can travel by car from Vienna to Innsbruck in three and a half hours, the citizens are interested in whether they will still experience the expansion of the Pyhrn motorway or whether it will leave its offspring, and the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, want to hear how the future railway connection in the south of Austria looks, he wants to know whether the existing tunnels and the new tunnels to be built are safe and so on. The ordinary citizen is interested in whether he has a continuous link on the road from Vienna to Krems and whether it is available in 2003, as promised by the head of state Pröll and other Lower Austrian state politicians or not. In other words, Mr Bundesminister: The public is interested in whether the ministers concerned have done appropriate work or not. The latter is clearly what I would like to doubt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian road users, including those of the 4 million drivers, have a right to experience these things. They therefore have a right to do so because they contribute to the financing of the transport infrastructure every year with 120 billion schillings, and therefore I can no longer hear the permanent Lamento of those responsible in the Federal Government at all. It is always said that it is necessary to open up new sources of funding in order to make the whole possible. This is simply intolerable to the public, Mr Federal Minister, if you are allowed to do so. It is unacceptable, and it is also totally unacceptable, that both ministers make the declaration that detailed transport planning is not responsible. Federal Minister! Who is to make these plans, such as Mr Wittmann's Secretary of State or the opposition? - Who? Please tell me! I say the following to you: This is part of a single transport infrastructure ministry, and I hope that this will be the case at least in the next legislative period. Finally, a few thoughts on tunnel safety, ladies and gentlemen. The tragic accident has happened. It has passed, and the government has formulated a statement of intent: Yes, one wants to build a second tube where it is necessary. But in reality, ladies and gentlemen, you want to make grass grow on this matter, because otherwise it cannot be explained. If you would not let grass grow on it, but at last make safety, ladies and gentlemen, then you should have accepted our motion for a resolution in committee. These are measures which do not cost so much money and which can be implemented immediately. These are: Escape rooms in existing tunnels, identification of individual vehicles, video surveillance and so on. They all know that we still have large gaps, especially where this summer the new needle tube will be created, namely in the Felbertauerntunnel. It is simply irresponsible that you do not make security. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled this motion for a resolution again. If you are thinking of Austria, tourism and safety, ladies and gentlemen, then you can only agree with this undertaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9500	Mr Parnigoni is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9521	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to Mr Firlinger that this 1995 motion for a resolution had no time limit. Secondly, as the chairman of the committee, I believe that the liberals are different from those who have been in the Subcommittee because the experts have strongly supported the networking and integration of both the Master Plan and the GSD. Mr Firlinger! But that's not a problem, I understand. You yourself have referred to it: The times are getting rougher and hotter. You have the task of making opposition policy, and you carry it out. That's it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: What is the point of your motion for a resolution?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The present Master Plan is a core element, a time-limit of the Federal Roadmap Plan, which is to be understood as a task of the Austrian overall transport concept of 1991. The main objectives are: first: to avoid the need for transport, second: to shift to environmentally friendly modes of transport and thirdly, to the development of previously poorly accessible regions in Austria. High house! With this master plan, it is clear how the networks of road, rail, waterway and airports will develop from today's perspective to 2015 and how they will be integrated into TEN and TINA – so that you know, Mr Gaugg, these are European transport networks. [[Abg. Gaugg: Mr Colleague! A question: When will this be realized?]] The need for these plans and considerations is apparent from the background that there are forecasts which in all cases predict a more than 100 per cent increase in traffic in the East-West transit. High house! It should be noted that there is a clear need for re-examination in the case of investment. Only 40 percent of the high-level rail network is developed. 2 200 kilometers must be adjusted. We have spent 143 billion schillings so far, and according to Master Plan we will have to spend another 160 to 170 billion schillings by 2015 in order to make the rail network high-level. But we have already expanded over 92 percent of the high-level road network and have spent 471 billion schilling on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] 92 percent! Now, Mr Peter, we need an estimated 30 billion for the remaining 8 percent, an estimated 30 billion for the gap, and around 20 billion for the so-called GSD. So much costs the implementation of the relevant considerations in this area. For me, in all cases the Master Plan with its two-track expansion Vienna – Wels, as well as the expansion and quality improvements of the South Railway, including Semmering Base Tunnel, the expansion of the Koralm Railway and the capacity expansions on the Brenner track, including Brenner Base Tunnel. Of course, we also need to improve interoperability by extending the logistics terminals. High house! For me, the main focus of this discussion and the Master Plan is that we can achieve the shift of heavy traffic away from the road towards rail or waterway. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: How many days was the Arlberg railway closed?]] This is only possible, Mr Nußbaumer, by trying to introduce the driving power-dependent toll as quickly as possible. However, I would also like to tell you why we urgently need this driving power-dependent toll on the truck. Firstly, we already have this rail pricing in rail transport. It is true that every transport on the rails must pay the rail operator a fee. Secondly, it has already been said that we must somehow finance the gap in the high-level road network. Thirdly, we must push ahead with the cost reality. We know exactly that about a 10-ton-axle truck, i.e. a 40-ton truck, is burdening the road ten thousand times more than a 1-ton passenger car. I used to say it again and again: Trailers on the motorway can only create a loaded truck, never a car. Fourth, we need to reduce and reduce cross-subsidisation from the car to the truck. Fifthly, we must try to stop the following: Currently foreign trucks – about 30 percent of all high-level trucks are foreign – are ruining our roads completely free of charge. This must also be stopped by means of truck toll. Sixthly, we have the following development in the countries around us, for example in the new reform states: In the Czech Republic, for example, a similar measure is now being introduced, namely a truck vignette. That means that there is also de facto a toll for the truck. One last argument, one last comment to my colleague Kukacka: He has explained in the media that the Master Plan is too heavy. With the merger of the two, he has made sure that the road is not too short. The fact is that the proposals for road planning were not secured by appropriate data. Further: For many years no proposals have been made in the working group on the preparation of the Master Plan and the Federal Roadmap. I should like to point out, Mr President, that Mr Pröll, who was first a pseudo-greener, has been vehement against the North motorway which has prevented until then. Now Mr Pröll is at once a glowing advocate of the North motorway, every road and even the road tunnel. This is a strange change. And now there are also planning proposals on the road. But I recognize that this merger of the Master Plan and the GSD study is taking place on an integrated overall transport plan in the sense of all modes of transport. However, I refer to the necessary studies that are also contained in the resolution. The resolution also states, Mr Kukacka, that the quantification of traffic volumes and the dimensioning of roads in the GSD have not yet been planned. That is why we need these investigations. If we succeed in providing the necessary evidence of traffic volumes and dimensions, we will also come to an integrated overall transport concept, the basis for improving the economic location and the basis for more quality of life in the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9595	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9616	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni! The forecasts of traffic growth are always very interesting because they are made under the conditions of the status quo. As long as we do not implement what has already been stated in the National Environmental Plan, namely that there should be an ecological tax reform, that there should be a cost-truth that the 'polluter pays' principle should take place, as long as transport is re-established behind developments. That is what we think is wrong, because the government is still failing to implement what it has given itself as a requirement. In particular, Mr Parnigoni, I am surprised that, although it is about the shift in heavy traffic, it is not about the truth of costs, not about the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle and not about an environmental tax reform. The government had time to do this, but she hasn't done it until today. You always say it at the speaker's desk, but you won't do it in the future. I do not think that the SPÖ should be in favour of persuading the truck-road pricing because it is supposed to catch the foreign trucks that are now ruining our roads free of charge. [[Abg. Edler: Is it not true?]] – Mr Edler, Member of the Commission. How can you say something like this? – In reality, this is a hog, which you otherwise only blame for the liberals. You also said when introducing the vignette: We have to catch the foreigners who are always driving on our roads. You know very well that it has to be paid by the locals. Foreign transport, in particular transit, does not make much difference in terms of the total volume of transport we have. That's why it might be quite the end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] But it's about the access you have: They are selling a new burden to Austrians, only for budget reasons, but not because you want to achieve an ecological change. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this respect, the motion for a resolution is also proof, ladies and gentlemen, that the plans made by the Ministry of Transport on the one hand and by the Ministry of Economic Affairs are completely uncoordinated. That is why, as in the past, we demand a uniform Ministry of Infrastructure, which includes road, rail, air transport, in particular shipping, as well as lines or pipelines. That would be necessary, and it should not fail to be compatible with the teaching of colours in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to bringing together these two plans – that is what this motion for a resolution, which will be adopted today with the votes of the government groups and the Liberals – I would like to make another motion for a resolution on the Upper Styria. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The current procedure, Mr Parnigoni, has also said that we needed a drive ahead of the Koralmbahn, namely that the Obersteiermark is not being expanded, we think it is the wrong way. That is what the motion for a resolution is about to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9682	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kukacka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9706	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen I think it is undisputed between all political groups that we need a federal road map. It is undisputed that it must include railways and the high-level road system, but of course also waterways. It is indisputable that this should also include the prevention of unnecessary transport and the transfer of transport to environmentally friendly modes of transport. I believe that, after all the discussions in recent months, it should also be clear that this requires not only the Minister of Transport's master plan, but also the one-sided set of priorities for rail transport, and above all the involvement of the EU's GSD study with its development plans for the high-level road system and, above all, the integration of the Eastern and Central European countries to the EU's transport network and also with Austria. I do not need to stress once again that we consider the Master Plan presented by Mr Verkehrsminister to be unbalanced. In the last few weeks and months as the minister of transport responsible for general transport, Mr Verkehrsminister, it was unbalanced, and above all politically, not very helpful, for you to rely on the side of a mode of transport, namely on rail, while at the same time allowing yourself to be qualified in a campaign of the Ministry of Transport and in an advertising campaign of the Austrian Federal Railways of the Trucks, which is necessary for the supply of the Austrian population and for commercial transport, as an environmental poison, as an accident source and as a dust founder. Federal Minister! We think that this is unfair, and we do not think that it is reasonable and not justified in relation to your role as Minister of Transport, who is responsible for all areas of transport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] In addition, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we think it honest that for months this 50 million schilling advertising campaign "rail instead of traffic blinds" has been carried out, while the Austrian Federal Railways are constantly launching off to plan to stop freight traffic on secondary routes – at least if the countries are not ready to pay immediately. So while this campaign is running, we hear from the The ÖBB press spokesman, Ms Kickinger, said what the experts have already known for a long time, namely that the truck on the surface is far cheaper and more flexible than rail transport and therefore will be forced to use its own truck. This is what Mrs. Kickinger, Press Officer of the Austrian Federal Railways, says. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is really doubly to propagate on one side "rail instead of traffic blinds" and on the other hand, just as this happens, to set up about a piece of freight service between Villach and Lienz and around the region of the new freight station Stockerau. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not all right, and that is already a question of the practice that has been practised in the political field in recent times, namely to put a kind of "rail instead of traffic blinds" into the world. On the one hand, to claim something in an advertising campaign and, on the other hand, to conduct something quite different politically, we do not think that is a very decent procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: So you think it's one because you didn't do it twice!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The resolution tabled by the Coalition corrects the unilateral rail development priority, and that is right, and that is necessary because we must not close our eyes to transport policy because the Europe-wide increase in economic interconnections and transport relations also requires the development of the necessary road links. That is why I also call for a better dosage of motorway and highway development. For over the next ten years – we confess – at least 140 to 150 billion schilling – that is already determined – will be invested in the expansion of the railway routes, but only 30 billion schilling are available for the expansion of the gap closure. [[Abg. Schwemlein: How does the balance sheet of the last 20 years look like?]] This money does not, of course, come from the budget, but this money comes again from the driver, from the transport industry, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Seidinger: Road to Rail 4 : 2!]] A statement of revenue and expenditure on the road gives rise to a budget surplus of around 25 billion schillings, while the Federal Government's expenditure on the railways is above 26 billion schillings. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the financial reality. The railway, the rail system, costs us, namely the taxpayer, very much, and the shift effect is currently quite low. I hope, however, that this shift effect will actually be reversed by further expansion, because, of course, we are also committed to the expansion of the railways. At least this should slow down further growth in road transport. That would be an important goal. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear that this expansion of rail transport must be in a meaningful cost-benefit relationship. In any case, we do not see this sensible cost-benefit relationship sufficiently given in this context. You also need to admit that if you honestly analyze and evaluate these problems and these facts. Ladies and gentlemen! For us of the ÖVP, there is no unilateral ideologically motivated preference of a mode of transport. [[Abg. Sweamlein: I couldn't even imagine that!]] – We want the integrated expansion of rail, road and, of course, waterways. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For the ÖVP, the expansion of the transport infrastructure is not primarily any kind of employment programme, but for us a sufficiently expanded infrastructure is the basis for important location decisions by Austrian and foreign companies and thus overall also for the competitiveness of our country. This will continue to be the goal of our transport policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9812	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9833	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What you have heard now and what we should decide today – I mean the request of the two coalition parties – is the birth of a transport policy that is in itself contradictory and in itself schizophrenic, the birth of a section of rail and road, which clearly sets out, in the basics, in the basics, in the preliminary work, in the overall transport concept, also in the preface to the Federal Road Plan or the Master Plan, the priorities for rail or environmentally friendly modes of transport, but in which, however, the catalogue of measures and in concrete terms, the motion for a resolution mention a section of rail and road under the common big denominator: We build for the train, and we also build for the trucks, and we also build for the cars! – All of this is a wonderful cut that will be true of exactly what is outlined in horror scenarios, forecasts in the entrance remarks of the Federal Roadmap Plan or the Master Plan. [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is a "traffic cuvée", not a "cut"!]] This is symptomatic, schizophrenic and contradictory for me. We have high goals in the Master Plan, which must be underlined. The Master Plan also asks the right questions. There is a comprehensive data collection for the first time. There are even household surveys now. So we have real analyses, we have credible forecasts. There is also the desire for new transport policy frameworks and the corresponding consideration. The Federal Roadmap Plan and the Master Plan point out that the cost-truth is necessary; they point out that parking is necessary. All this is right, but all this is one side, and then the other side comes. Then there's what's going on with the many wrong answers. I can make them more concrete. There are false answers to the current traffic policy reality. You know, the reality is: Stau, truck columns throughout the West motorway, car stable on the access roads to the large conurbations, pendler frustration in public transport. Recently, there has been another study for the Lower Austrian ÖVs, and 64 percent of the counterparts have expressed their dissatisfaction. The Master Plan gives a schizophrenic answer. It says: We're expanding the track, but we're also expanding the streets! – What do you think the traffic will turn out to be? – Where it is more comfortable, where it is commonplace, that is, on the street. The wrong answer is also to the next concrete challenge. They have formulated the objectives: Environmental protection, the protection of living grounds, the health bases; all of this is to be protected. There are rising CO2 emissions. They go into it in the Master Plan, there they are also mentioned, but the answer – that is always the schizophrene – means: Increase, increase in road construction, and this, of course, also means a further continuation of rising CO2 emissions. If the Transport Committee, the Building Committee, the Subcommittee of the Transport Committee or the Subcommittee of the Building Committee go to the Committee on the Environment and present this situation to Mr Bartenstein, he will say: We cannot meet the reduction target to which we have committed ourselves in Kyoto. . We have the worst deficits in action in this respect, we really need to set a national force in order to achieve this. Then one goes back to the Building Committee, talks with Minister Farnleitner, and he says that the Kyoto objective is not his primary task, he must represent the drivers who are in the jam. And what's going on? – What I have outlined, a transport policy cut. It is not possible to decide to set the objectives, but to propose measures that are contrary to the objectives. The goals are, as has been said, very beautiful, one wants to shift from the road to the rail, but where will the cost truth then remain? My previous speaker, Mr Parnigoni, asked her, for example the Road-Pricing et cetera. Then you call the Ministry of Economics, and then you hear – see: The toll regulation is moving because the countries are setting in motion the consultation mechanism, because, of course, the Chamber of Commerce is against it and, of course, the interest association of the questioners is against it. – So where is the framework condition, which makes it possible to achieve what is being carried as a goal in the Master Plan, in the Federal Transport Road Plan also by the ÖVP? – That’s quite clear, that can’t lead to any positive development if the discrepancy is so great. Or: The objectives of the Master Plan and the Federal Roadmap Plan also address intermodality, the cross-road transport plans and forms of transport policy. But what's going to be done? – In parallel, the motion for a resolution contains a word, the extension of the railway infrastructure to the CEEC states and the extension of the high-level road network is addressed in this direction. I don't need to ask you, the answer is obvious: Good transport will roll on the road. Minister! I'm sorry. At the time, you presented forecast scenarios in your report on the successful negotiations. They have formulated this in the context of the EU Presidency. They distributed graphics over the East-West transit and also visually kept a quadruple in our eyes. And what are you doing now? – You go to the knees in front of an economic minister who wants to build the road and force you more or less of this horror scenario, and you can force it! For me, this is a major coalition in terms of transport policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second false consequence from the right objectives and the properly defined projects is: Lockdown, motorway gap. That was also always a goal, a measure and a project in your original master plan. I'll tell you: We're already overcrowded. Compare Austria with Germany! Austria has 200 km of motorways compared to Germany – it is even 220 km – per one million inhabitants. In Germany there are 136 kilometres of motorway per one million inhabitants. – You always say that comparison with Germany is necessary, we want the national equation. – But please do not hesitate to do so with regard to motorway policy! Because then we must "go down" and not close gaps. I must therefore also put the truth on the table in this regard and say: If there is to be an equivalent, that means that not so many motorways are built, but that we should come down to the level of our German neighboring country with 136 kilometres per million inhabitants. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I also mention a wrong answer given in your master plan: Some rail projects are certainly oversized and do not fit in with what you are formulating as a goal for improvement. I can prove that. There are studies by the Institute of Professor Bökemann on accessibility. There are also institutes such as the Austrian Institute for Spatial Planning, which has noted and, together with the Institute just mentioned, has also documented black on white that the south-east of Austria is particularly poorly developed. I could read that out if I had time. In all cases, your answer is Semmering base tunnel and non-spatial railway for the southeastern Styrian space. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is clear from this that lobbying groups were also involved in the preconception of the Master Plan, which in itself has traffic-scientific approaches. But he was not only watered down, but was also remedied by the corresponding lobby interests that went on and out. There was, in concrete terms, a contact committee in the Ministry of Transport, which presented the gentlemen of the Ministry of Economic Affairs with their street projects. No agreement could be reached on this. That's clear: If one pursues the objectives of the Master Plan, as defined in the Federal Roadmap, and finds that one already has enough roads, then one can no longer follow the views of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That's clear. Then comes the parallel action called GSD, and now comes the major coalitional cut in the form of the motion for a resolution. That is, as it were, the drops of advertising in the whole matter, because this is now very many of the original good approaches not only neutralized, but reversing into the opposite. Finally, I should like to talk about special Upper Austria projects. The two-track extension of the Summerau railway would be urgently necessary, especially in the light of the European corridors, especially in view of the relocation. Similarly, the two-track extension of the Pyrn Railway or, we discussed it in committee, the two-track extension of the Innviertler Railway is urgently necessary. This is much more necessary than possibly raising the B 125, the Prague Federal Road, into a TEN-range. I can document it to you, too. There is a ranking in the N1 work package available to the Ministry of Transport. It lists which railway buildings – which you always value – have the best cost efficiency. I say it to you: clearly the Innviertler Bahn between Braunau and Simbach with 185 compared to, for example, the expansion of the Westbahn four-track with 1078. The use of the means is much better with the Innviertler Bahn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I know you're a proponent anyway, but just don't stand by, even though you're much more important than I am. That is why, Mr Kukacka, you will certainly agree with our motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am particularly referring to the Ennstal road, the B 145, which I do not think should become an international transit route. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: They are always talking about the natural lawfulness of the increase in traffic. I bring a living counterpart: Denmark. In Denmark, years ago, in the 1970s, the ratio of passenger cars to the population was much greater than in Austria. Now we have a hundred thousand cars per year in Austria. In Denmark, this trend is declining. Today, there are 40 percent fewer cars in Denmark than in the 1970s. This was the case with a proper federal road map that works environmentally oriented!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9943	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser on the Federal Roadmap, Network Supplement and Network Improvements has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I am now interrupting the deliberations on points 5 to 7 of today's agenda so that the urgent debate on a written question on the Rules of Procedure can take place at 3 p.m. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt and comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning the deposit of a revelation page on the security status of Austria (6412/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e9973	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 6412/J. In the meantime, she has gone to all those in charge, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e10172	I give the floor to Mrs Heide Schmidt as an applicant for the reasons for the question under § 93 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e10193	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! Some people have asked us today how the Liberals are getting to ask a urgent question on security policy and on the subject of neutrality. I would like to answer this question. I believe that the past election campaign has shown how easy it was for the Federal Chancellor and the SPÖ to create with keywords a world of shadow that has nothing to do with reality, and thus to win a choice, namely with the keyword: The SPÖ ensures neutrality. However, this election campaign has also made it clear how the ÖVP has succeeded in diverting from its political objective with a theoretical concept, with the theoretical concept of a European security system being diverted from the political objective of a NATO accession. It has also shown how the FPÖ has succeeded – not as well as otherwise, but after all – in bringing the voters around on the nose and promising them with a popular vote what they actually want to take away from the FPÖ, namely neutrality – apart from the fact that the basis of a referendum would have to be the abolition of neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: The usual reflex against the FPÖ!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a total nonsense!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not very coherent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If this goes on, then the urgent will be a crash!]] It is therefore in the interest of these parties, after it has worked differently well for them, but yet it has worked to leave it all in the fog, in the hope: Once it's worked, it'll work again. This in the fog leave has even been supported by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said that security policy should be left out of all elections. We Liberals have a different view of this. We Liberals believe that there are not only election campaigns to clarify content positions, but above all that the content should be disclosed in advance, so that one knows what one is voting on, so that one knows what positions one gives to hold back and which positions one rejects, and that not only has to be done at the keyword level. To do this, however, it is necessary to disclose the status quo for Austria. This is intended to reveal the distinction between the constitutional law situation on the one hand and the real policy on the other. But it is also a need for us to use this opportunity to reveal and clarify the position of the Liberals. In order to achieve all this, I think it is necessary that we first lose at least a few words about the essence of neutrality, because when we talk about neutrality, we always operate with a culprit, without at all saying what neutrality is, what is behind it. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The constant neutrality, Mrs Reitsamer, is more than just an obligation not to allow military bases, not to belong to military alliances and to stand out from wars. She's more than that! This is exactly the point to be distinguished from one another, because it is always so popular to call on other European states, which are alliance-free and not always neutral, and that is, as most of you here know, as the Chancellor knows at least, a difference. I do not think the mixture is very fair, because here verbally a sluggish development is initiated, where one then suddenly marvels that the realities look completely different. The ever-increasing neutrality – and you, Federal Chancellor, are the one who is a truer of neutrality, and therefore you must think of the ever-increasing Austrian neutrality and not the Finnish, Swedish or any other who is a freedom of alliance, because you are talking about the Austrians, I assume – has other obligations than those I have just mentioned. The ever-increasing neutrality of Austria also has a commitment to a certain neutrality policy, and this neutrality policy is clearly in the disposition of that country for which it has to apply, but it is a neutrality policy that is already making it clear in advance, in the pre-effects – and these are the simplest definitions they can read in the International Law Manual – that there is nothing to do in peace that would make it impossible to comply with the duties of ordinary neutrality in future wars. This does not mean a mental neutrality – do not imply to me that I want to simplify this! – but I mean the country’s real policy. If I look at this and see how Austria has acted in recent years – and we have listed it in our urgent request – then I have to say: We have already removed ourselves from this ever-increasing neutrality step by step, in large steps, miles away. I am therefore beginning with 1991 because I do not want to go back to the United Nations until accession. Switzerland, in its consequence, has also found that even accession to the UN would not be compatible with its neutrality, and this is also the view of many international lawyers. We have found – I want to express it in Vienna –: That's still going on! I don't want to deal with that at all. But I still remember well in 1991 when, in a night-and-nebulous action - I think it was between two and four o'clock in the morning, until four o'clock, I remembered nebulos that the committee was taking – the criminal law and the war materials law had to be amended, because in the Gulf crisis Austria wanted to give permission for overflights and for transits to prove solidarity. This is what I thought was right in this case too. However, the legal situation was not in line with that, we have adapted the legal situation: Get away from neutrality! However, the accession of Austria to the European Union in 1995 seems much more important to me. I still remember very well the discussions that took place at that time. As you know, it has always been a concern to liberals that Austria should become a member of the European Union. It would have been far better for us if you, the Federal Government and the officials of the Federal Government, then informed the citizens of the consequences of joining the EU. I simply do not think it fair that, just to achieve something, one does not call things by name, conceals things, or at all leaves unmentioned. That is exactly what you have done with the topic of neutrality! They have formally resorted – which is true – to the fact that we have joined the EU as a neutral state, and have hoped – and the bill has risen – that people link the belief that we can continue to do so. Only: With this EU accession, we have committed ourselves to things that are absolutely incompatible with an ever-increasing neutrality. The declaration on the common foreign and security policy states, inter alia, that the new Member States will be ready and able to participate fully in the common foreign and security policy from the date of their accession. It also states that these objectives of the Treaty are fully and unconditionally taken over. Federal Chancellor! I know the argument: In our framework! But if I have the objective of a common It is not fair to have a mental reservation and to say: I remain what I am, and therefore I will never be able to pursue and contribute to these goals too! I remain in my confinement, I sign something that I can't accomplish then! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I don't think that's right, and that's why there's only one thing: Either I decide I can't do that, or I'm in a position to be able to carry out these objectives without reservation and in full. That does not mean, however, that you have to go along with everything, I do not say that, I just have to be prepared to do everything theoretically. That's the difference! We have therefore changed our constitution – and that is logically logically – in a further series, because of course it is not compatible with an ever-increasing neutrality if one is to resort to a party to a dispute by, for example, contributing to economic action. That is why we have changed our constitution, where Article 23f states that we can take action. There it says: This includes participation in measures with which economic relations with one or more third countries are suspended, restricted or completely discontinued. This adaptation was necessary in order to meet a minimum level of commitment we have entered the EU. However, a much bigger and clearer step has been taken with the Amsterdam Treaty. That was the final announcement – it is benevolent if I say an announcement – to accept neutrality, because there we have also committed ourselves to the Petersberg tasks, which – and everyone here knows – include not only peace-keeping and peace-keeping measures, but also combat missions in the context of crisis management. This is incompatible with an ever-increasing neutrality, and someone who contests it really talks about reality and also about the legal system. We have therefore re-adapted our constitution, and I can well imagine what doubling must have been done by every word between the coalition parties. But it has been clarified - and I am now just quoting the remarks made by Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol - that, in line with the Treaty of Amsterdam, measures are also taken in case they are not taken in the implementation of a decision of the United Nations Security Council. It's so literally inside. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right! Yes! That's what we're standing for.]] That is to say, we have also made it clear that what is to be understood under ever-increasing neutrality is no longer sustainable under international and state law. You can think it's good or right, it just happened. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Read the text and not just the explanations!]] On the other hand, it is no wonder that the two government groups did not bring together an option report, although they still committed themselves to it in the Government Declaration and also recognised the importance of this issue by writing into the Government Declaration that all further security policy options – even before the adoption of the EU Presidency by Austria – are submitted to Parliament. Everyone knows how it went: The option report did not come. Now I come – so that I don't have to repeat everything you can read in the urgent request anyway – to the 4th. June 1999, the Cologne Summit. I would also like to recall the discussions in the main committee, the discussions between Foreign Minister, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, my person, about how, in what time frame and how committed Austria should be to integrating the WEU into the EU. I don't want to talk about it now, just about what came out. At the Cologne Summit, the Council of the European Union is at least able to take decisions on the whole spectrum of political, economic and military instruments available to it when it comes to responding to crisis situations. I already know that these are all declarations of intent, but at least intentions in one direction: that common military action should also take place in a common foreign and security policy, namely – and that is what still calms me – either with or without the use of NATO structures. If, as I believe, you will now point out the veto right or the constructive renunciation and point out that Austria does not have to participate, I say: This right of veto, which is constructively relegated, is not a special instrument for neutrals, but is an instrument which is equally available to all Member States. It is therefore incorrect that, as you say, consideration should be given to the special situation of neutrals. Because this applies equally to all Member States, I think it is logical and obvious that this should only be interpreted in such a way that a country only contains itself in individual cases, then, if specific reasons speak for it, but not for reasons of principle, because a neutral state can never participate in it, because that would be a mental reservation when signing a contract, and I thought it was incorrect. That is why I am not surprised that our importance and our being taken seriously by the European Community is not as much as you would like to show us. If we are talking about the need for a security debate at last, then we think that we must say to the Austrians, on the one hand, if you are honest, that it is not possible to act as a truer of ever-ending neutrality, because it is now gone. And if that is the case, then it is not fair to act as if one could continue saving neutrality for the future, because there is nothing more that can be saved! If I now imagine the upcoming election campaign, if I imagine that the same keywords will be used, then I must say: This may be selective, but it has little to do with political responsibility. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It will be the day on which we can no different than to confess color in this European Union. Then there are the citizens, and they will not know at all how they are happening because they have been scattered sand into their eyes for years. That's just not all right, that's a wrong political understanding! The SPÖ and, as I mean, also the Greens hold there to a Potemkin village, out of different motivations and with different credibility in the conviction. This is because, in my view, the credibility of the Greens on this issue is much higher than that of the SPÖ. Just, it's not useful at all, it's still a Potemkinian village. [[Abg. Wabl: No! We also make up reality as a party!]] It is of no use that you be more credible in this! That's why I don't think that's necessarily a plus. The ÖVP and FPÖ want the direct way to NATO. This may be an option for which you can act. The Liberals do not support it, and we have never stood up for it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you stand for?]] We believe that this is the wrong way, because we believe that a European security system that I have spoken about before and which the EIA has so gladly used as a theoretical concept and thus as a cover for something covert would be the right way, and we believe that we need to reveal what can be understood by it. In contrast to you, as opposed to a NATO accession, what we understand is an independent security system and, I say, even if there are many who regard it as an illusion, a European volunteer army. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a dangerous wish!]] We want a European security system with all its components of security actions, and that is not just a military component, as I hope many will be right, but one of the security components is the military one, and for this one component we also wish for a European instrument, namely a European volunteer army. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If it appears to some visionary, I stand for it. At that time, the European Union as a whole would have appeared visionary, and a common European currency would only have appeared visionary to them. Today we have them, and the euro will be the next thing we have. That is why it is important to have ideas about how this system should be built. Only if I have these ideas, only if I have clear objectives, if I am convinced of the accuracy of these goals, can I also commit myself to them. I think it is right to be involved in this, and I believe that this would also be accompanied in Austria, which I say quite openly, very pleasantly. It would mean the dissolution of the national army – in the other European states as well – because it would mean the abolition of the general military obligation, because we switched to a volunteer army. I believe that this is a very good vision for the future, both for the defence of the values in such a community and for the decision of those who want to do so. In order to discuss all of this – even if you think it is wrong – in order to discuss this with sakhaar arguments in order to reveal all this and not always to remain on the keyword level, we have tabled today's urgent request. And I very much hope, Federal Chancellor, that you have made the way here because you are willing to deliver messages to the 20 questions we have asked, not only your statements, your words and yours, as I should say, but also to really answer these questions. I ask you not to do what you sometimes offer us, namely to pass on the coat of silence, if we join your opinion, but to conduct a political discourse on the accuracy of the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e10359	To answer the urgent question, I give the floor to Mr Bundeskanzler. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e10380	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It may be difficult to hold an objectively sound discussion three days after one election and three months before one election. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's not hard for us! We have no problem with that!]] I shall, in any case, try to do so in response to the questions raised to me. Dear Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Allow me, in advance, to briefly explain the considerations and ideas on security and stability in Europe that move me to pursue a policy that may distinguish us. I believe that we all have an urgent interest in finding an architecture for Europe in the next century, which will ensure the highest possible degree of stability and security. And I think it would be bad if we were to have a policy that would lead to new division lines, new graves, new block formations in Europe. [[Abg. Wabl: He's right!]] I therefore believe it is important and correct that we – and this is not only the four non-packed or neutral states in the European Union, but also others who are thinking about stability and security in Europe in the medium and long term – do not make the European Union a military pact with mandatory NATO membership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this is not just a problem for the four states which have already been reached in the Maastricht Treaty, that a common foreign and security policy of the European Union has to take into account the specific security policy of the individual Member States, which is also reflected in the Treaty of Amsterdam at the time, and gives us the flexibility that this Europe needs, and I believe that even in the direction of the enlargement process which we can imagine for the next century in the direction of Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and so on, such mandatory NATO membership in a military pact could contribute to the creation of new block formations in this Europe, which will undoubtedly not contribute to security. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's why we don't want her either!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Here I am your opinion!]] Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I don't know when the moment was and what made it happen that in the negotiations in Rambouillet and Paris and the decisions after that Russia was no longer in the boat, I only know one thing - apologise, perhaps we can continue - I only know one – and there are well-founded sources in the meantime – that because of the fact that Russia was no longer represented in this international community, Milošević believed in having a strong partner. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are opening open doors to me!]] And that was a driving moment for these atrocities that we had to experience in the Balkans. I therefore think it is so important that we can develop a security structure and policy for Europe that avoids such block formations and divisions. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Me too! That's it!]] In this context, allow me to say: Do you know what I'm guessing of Solana? That it is he who has developed the political vision that we have to build a bridge between Russia and a military block NATO, that it is important to also offer the partnership for peace, also the expanded partnership for peace to possible cooperation in crises and security policy considerations. That's what I think is important: Move away from the pact towards a structure of commonness and cooperation! In fact, that was the reason – I am saying this very clearly – why we were concerned about the conclusions of the Cologne Council after the German Presidency's first paper, at least misunderstandably formulated. But I beg you not to pretend that only Austria was concerned. Finland, Ireland and Sweden were also very concerned about the first draft of the German Presidency of May. There have been genuinely committed discussions, which have then led to the final decision in Cologne, namely to a common commitment. The European Union's foreign and security policy, which is intended to allow for cooperation, which, however, says very clearly and clearly that the European Union will not assume Article 5 obligations of assistance, will therefore not be a military pact and will thus enable the equal participation of non-participating and neutral states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Where's that? Mr. Federal Chancellor, where's that?]] Allow me to point out one more thing – I will then speak in the context of the reply to the question, Mrs Dr Schmidt, because you are always very well explaining this – which you should already note: that Austria has joined the United Nations three months after the decision on the neutrality law, and that all States have also accepted it in such a way under international law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was the first step!]] We in Austria have, therefore, since that time – and not only since the climate is federal chancellors – felt that participation in a war would not be possible if there was an agreement with the Charter of the United Nations. I should like to point out the following: If you read all Title V of the European Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy, you will already see in the preamble that all the measures of this Common Foreign and Security Policy are in line with the Charter of the United Nations. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How was the NATO bombardment?]] Very clear and clear: in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations provides for two crisis management measures – I can do so –: [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How was the NATO bombardment? That was not in line with the Charter!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Everything without a UN mandate!]] The first form of action is based on a decision of the United Nations Security Council. [[Abg. Wabl: Was that consistent?]] The second form is Article 51 in the Charter of the United Nations, the right to individual or collective self-defence. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You seem to have another truth!]] For example, if you look at the explanations on our article 23f B-VG so often quoted, you will see there very clearly and clearly that it is also possible to act without the mandate of the United Nations Security Council. Bracket on: Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. Close it. [[Abg. Wabl: I think you're confusing NATO and UN Charter! Was the use in Yugoslavia a UN deployment?]] That is why I say very clearly and clearly that, from my point of view, actions that are in line with the Charter of the United Nations have always been compatible with Austrian neutrality since the fall of 1955, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That was not in line with the UN Charter!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You say that!]] That's not just me! Since then, there have been many German Chancellors who believe that measures consistent with the Charter of the United Nations are compatible with the Neutrality Act. This is not my invention, which I made three months ago or two years ago, which has been so since the fall of 1955, and this, ladies and gentlemen, has in this form also been recognized by the other states under international law. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: It's about the question of just war!]] Of course. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: It's about the question of just war!]] We have already adopted the Federal Constitutional Law on Neutrality at the time of accession to the United Nations. This is really a contentious argument, and I would ask you to consider it. [[Abg. Scheibner: I will then give you the right explanation!]] I believe, of course, that there is also uncertainty or misunderstanding in the discussion, because the Austrian neutrality has always been an instrument of our country's foreign and security policy and not self-evident, an instrument of foreign policy, which has naturally changed very strongly since the fifties, but is undisputed: The core of this concept of neutrality has not changed in these decades. I do not think it is a question of continuing a neutrality policy with the methods of the 1950s. This is not possible, and the world's political environment has changed too much. Austria's neutrality has never been a static concept, but it has just shown that it is able to respond in the best possible way to the changes and challenges. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! The key elements, as I understand and see them and as they are laid down in the Federal Constitutional Act on Neutrality, the key elements you yourself have listed, so no participation in a military pact, no foreign troops in our area and no participation in a war – I am now saying: Clamp on: if it is not in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, that has been true since 1955 – we have not changed, I believe, clearly and clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You know exactly what was meant!]] [[Abg. Where's that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also benefited from the possibilities of external action, which have increased for Austria since the collapse of the Warsaw Pact and the COMECON, after the changes in the world policy in 1989, and a focus has rightly been – and I recognise – the accession to the European Union. We have therefore, in broad consensus, prepared this accession with all our powers, and at that time we, the two government parties, Socialists and Christian Democrats, were very much in favour of Austria as a neutral member of the European Union and can remain. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I should like to repeat once again, because I think it is a key element, that at that time only Ireland, in the meantime Sweden, Finland and Austria, had been included in the Maastricht Treaty to take account of the particular constitutional situation and security policy of the individual states. I have already brought the presentation of Article 23 B-VG in my introduction, and from my point of view it is so that the Treaty of Amsterdam, which entered into force on 1 January 1989. In May of this year, nothing has changed in this basic constellation. The parties sitting here could not have decided if they thought that this would obsolate the Austrian Neutrality Act. [[Intervocations at the Liberal Forum and the Freemans.]] So there is no breach of the constitution here in the National Council, and I am convinced of that. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: There are facts!]] I am convinced that none of the Members here have broken the Constitution as a result of the legislation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Maybe not intentional, but indeed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that, within the framework of the European Union – Austria, we must very quickly strengthen Europe's political voice in a multipolar world – that we need a common foreign and security policy. I believe that the Treaty of Amsterdam gives us a very clear opportunity to act in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, and I also believe that this is quite compatible with the Austrian Neutrality Act. A comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the contradiction between neutrality and solidarity. I believe that since 1955 Austria has proved very clearly that it participates in peacekeeping measures throughout the world. I can tell you that more than 40 000 people – military, police and civil staff – have participated in more than 30 international operations and Austria uses more than 800 million schilling annually. Austria is currently in international service with 1,200 soldiers and almost 50 police officers with 15 different missions. Three missions, namely the use in East Timor, the KFOR mission based on the Security Council – it was discussed early today – and a UN police operation in Kosovo, are currently in preparation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to add something because I have heard that it is against neutrality that Austrian soldiers are in building up the Austrian camp in Albania. This is an "Allied Harbour" action, a "PfP" action, and I think we should say very clearly that there is not the enemy image NATO, where we have fear of contact. Cooperation is sensible and necessary. However, my political position is that I do not consider Austria's accession to NATO to be useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have also tried to justify why I do not consider it reasonable for Europe to have this military pact identity, and why I believe that Europe can add value if we have a security and foreign policy that allows cooperation between states that are NATO members, States that are free of the pact and States that are neutral. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Here we agree!]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That is why we need the European security system! That's it! The European security system is not NATO!]] That is exactly what we achieved at the Cologne Summit. That is why, I believe, we can rightly say: We have, together with others, ensured that a European security structure will not cover a military pact in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That means you're buying that NATO is directing your tools!]] I can now, Mrs Dr Schmidt, if you agree, answer the individual questions, and I have, of course, already explained a lot in my introductory remarks. Questions 1 and 2: The Austrian neutrality was established by the Federal Constitutional Act of 26. ==References== Its content was notified by all the states with which Austria had diplomatic relations at the time. The core of these commitments, which were also addressed by you in the request, namely, non-participation in wars, military pact and so on, is the content of this BVG neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: It's about the whole thing! It's not just about the core, it's about the whole thing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The notification means: It is an obligation under international law!]] It is now true that the entire state practice of our country, Mrs Dr Schmidt, was already – I repeat it – regarded by all peoples as not contrary to Austrian neutrality in autumn 1955 with the accession to the United Nations. They do not want to say that accession to the United Nations is contrary to Austrian neutrality! – He doesn't! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is not the answer!]] That is why I am very clear and clear that the international community of States has seen and sees our development from accession to the United Nations to accession to the European Union as in line with the neutrality of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is a mistake!]] [[Abg. Smolle: This is a claim!]] On Question 3: As I have already explained, Austria joined the EU in 1995 as an active and solid, but neutral country. Of course, the EU Treaty – including the Amsterdam Treaty – provides the necessary legal basis for this. The provisions of Article J.4 para. 1 of the EU Treaty, as amended by the Maastricht Treaty, is literally speaking – literally! . that the common foreign and security policy covers all matters relating to the security of the European Union, including, in the longer term, the definition of a common defence policy which could lead to a common defence at the time. At the same time, the Maastricht Treaty, but also the Amsterdam Treaty, makes it clear that the specific nature of the security options of certain Member States must be taken into account. So this cannot be a contradiction, and it is not to be deduced from the fact that States that are non-combatant, or States which are neutral, must suddenly change their constitution – I do not know. Questions 4 to 10: I have already explained very detailedly that Article 23f is the constitutional basis for Austria's participation as an active, solid and neutral member in a common foreign and security policy of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Just not in enforcement!]] I should also like to explain to you, to the vote on the question, that in principle there is nothing that you have written to 'allow', but as far as the exercise of the powers conferred on the European Union in the field of so-called Petersberg tasks is concerned - and I repeat this once again, because it is really a central point - all the decisions of the CFSP are bound to the Charter of the United Nations. Only such CFSP decisions are possible within the framework of the European Union, which is a very essential and crucial point. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Austria will not be concerned about decisions taken by the European Union that are moving within the framework of the Charter of the United Nations, i.e. mandate of the Security Council or Article 51, right to individual and collective self-defense. [[Abg. Scheibner: a common defense!]] I say this very clearly because it has been and is our understanding of neutrality since 1955. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: A common defense, but neutral! That's wonderful!]] If Austria does not participate in measures which do not relate to a decision of the Security Council or Article 51, Austria may, as you know, also include constructive measures, and the measures resulting from them will, of course, be negotiable with each Member State as part of the implementation of this Decision, without hindering it. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What do you say about Question 9?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Will we put in a veto now or not? What about Question 9?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Will there be a veto or not?]] I didn't even mention the Veto! I didn't even talk about that right now. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is the central question!]] No, no! You didn't listen to me well! [[Abg. Scheibner: As a neutral, you must not allow such a thing to happen!]] A neutral state can do so on the basis of a decision of the United Nations Security Council or on the basis of Article 51 of the United Nations, and nothing else will we do, honourable Member Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is common defense!]] Question 11: With its accession to the European Union, Austria has recognised the transfer of competences, including those in the field of foreign affairs, to the EU. Any economic sanctions are no longer imposed by Austria, but, as you have said, by the European Union and, moreover, Article 23 B-VG provides a secure constitutional basis for Austria to adopt such decisions. Question 12: Please allow me, Mrs Dr Schmidt, to comment on this, because you are very precise: Make the effort and look at the only decisions at the level of government and government, namely the decisions of the Berlin Summit. Please! You will see that your claims in the decisions of the Berlin Summit are not mentioned! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But that's not true!]] That "justified and warned" is based on a press release by the German Presidency on the Brussels informal meeting based on a decision of the Foreign Minister a week before. – I don’t want to be mischievous at all, but only correct it because I appreciate your precision, Dr. Schmidt, otherwise, but here you have made a mistake! [[Abg. Wabl: What is your personal opinion, Mr. Federal Chancellor?]] I would like to express my personal opinion to you: Austria's neutrality was never a neutrality of values, we have always distinguished very clearly and clearly between murderers and victims – from the Hungarian uprising to the Prague spring and now also in the Kosovo war. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That's what everyone wants!]] This will also be done by Austria in the future, and that is compatible with neutrality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Smolle: That's not the question!]] Question 12 I am very happy to answer. [[Subsequent calls to the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The answer to Question 12 is: The conclusions of the Berlin European Council on 24 and 25. There are no such statements on March 1999, nor the declarations adopted there! – But I was fair anyway and have all this well explained. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Do you distance yourself from it?]] Questions 13 to 18: Ladies and gentlemen! I very much, very clearly and comprehensively presented the framework conditions and the essential contents of the conclusions adopted by the Cologne European Council on the further development of foreign and security policy within the framework of the European Union in my introductory explanations. These conclusions are carried out by Austria, in particular because it is clear that it is not the objective of this path to implement the obligation to assist the Article 5 conditions and thus the military pact identity in the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you rule this out?]] We have also achieved – and this was also ensured in Cologne – that non-attached states, NATO members and neutrals can participate equally in the development of a European foreign and security policy. The question of Austria's accession to the Western European Union, in which there is an Article 5 provision, i.e. a duty of assistance, is not raised in my view. On question 19: I have already answered this in the introductory remarks. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: What are you doing?]] Question 20: The Federal Government has undertaken in the Coalition Convention to present and evaluate the various options of security policy in a common report. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: On Question 19 there is no answer!]] There was no doubt about these reviews! However, what was not achieved was a formulation, according to which the perspective, i.e. the goal of NATO membership, was to be considered. I say quite frankly to you that there were differences between the government partners in this respect, and I understand that. [[Abg. Wabl: Why only "gave"? Is that cleared?]] There was a government partner with an active decision to join NATO, but we have a very clear policy orientation in that we do not consider accession to NATO useful! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: There's still him!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schmidt, I think it is a misunderstanding if you think that my offer to exclude the Austrian neutrality law at least for the next legislative period means an end to the debate on Austrian security policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It means much more that we then have sufficient time to discuss in peace a common important Austrian decision, namely how Austrian foreign and security policy should continue and will continue. [[Abg. Scheibner: In two years the decision will be taken in the EU! They want in five years only...!]] What I can't have for – and I say that very clearly and clearly – is that one is up to 3. October with his opinion behind the mountain, then took out his old party decisions and simply continued to do so. I'm not having for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But with the ban on discussion you make it easy for them!]] So if someone intends to change our federal constitution during the next legislative period, he should say so, and then, of course, this will be a debate for the election; that is absolutely right! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Very nice that we can discuss "must"!]] Who else should be able to decide and choose different directions than the voters? However, if we do not challenge the issue of "no amendment of the federal constitution, no change to the neutrality law" for the entire legislative period, then this must not be an election topic, but then we can talk about it in peace and security. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is no longer necessary, we have already made all the changes!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Naiv!]] This is the attempt to achieve a reality in this discussion, and I say immediately: [[Call to the liberals: like the EU election!]] If we do not, we will have to discuss the direction of the vote together in a election debate and ask the voters to do so. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] I would ask you, however, to apologise for this remark; it is not in accordance with the request. I just wanted to clarify a misunderstanding: I never meant a ban on discussion, never meant a ban on debate. To this end, it is too important in democracy to deal with content, subject matter. I believe that it is important to our country – and I say this very clearly – that we – you have referred to this in your statement of request – appear to others as a predictable partner. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: We're not sure that's what we're doing right now!]] If you talk to foreign politicians, you will notice that they have no problem with the position of Ireland, Finland or Sweden, but sometimes Austria does not understand. That is why I said – in order to make it easier for the others in this regard –: Just as this is the case with Finland, Ireland and Sweden, we should also have a clear position on it and, where we are officially representing our country, we should make this representation based on the Constitution, based on the existing neutrality law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11274	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11302	Federal Chancellor! I'm disappointed. The applause of your group is plausible, because it is obvious that you should be thanked for the courage that you have continued not to speak the truth openly and honestly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Letting out is also a part of a lack of truth! But the truth is reasonable to voters. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Therefore, it is a mistake to think that you will be able to keep a central issue of the Republic of Austria at a distance of a few months, namely, how is it really going about security, even in the military dimension, to hide from voters – and also to do so as if everything were as it was in 1955, when Austria joined the UN, prior to the decision of the Neutrality Act, otherwise the neutrality was notified. They are pretending to have remained with the old people since then, although we have now joined the European Union. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have today regularly addressed the Maastricht Treaty and the Irish formula. – To this end, please: Ireland is not always a neutral state, but an alliance-free state. I'd like to take that into consideration. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] Ireland is not an ever-increasing neutral state with notification, with international law binding, and therefore, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have regularly used the turn of "packed and neutral states" in your reply to your question. The only thing that came out clearly in your reply is that you don't want to go to NATO. That's where we're very close together. We Liberals also consider NATO to be an anachronism in its entire construction, also for a child of the Cold War ex 1949, as NATO may have developed. NATO has actually developed more than one might assume, but it is just a little different from a European security identity. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Since you spoke, Mr Bundeskanzler, of the Charter of the United Nations and of the right to individual and collective self-defense: Individual self-defense is the right and duty of an ever-neutral state. Collective self-defense even violates the core element of the freedom of alliance that you conjure up here, because collectively you can only defend yourself with others – and this is always an alliance, though perhaps only one on time, but at least a alliance. That is why, Federal Chancellor: If you are referring to the Charter and to collective self-defense, you have already abandoned neutrality with this sentence – perhaps through international ignorance – that may be. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. That's not true!]] That's it! That's it! Collective self-defense means: together with others, that is, in alliance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a hundred percent right!]] Furthermore, the Charter is not intended for the purposes of aggression or attack wars. It is intended for defence wars, and therefore, of course, at all times the NATO bombing in Kosovo was not in conformity with the UN Charter. You know that very well! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Yes!]] In the political sphere, the Council in Berlin – perhaps it was just the press speaker who was mistakenly speaking – did not distance himself from it! On the contrary: He reaffirmed NATO's commitment to Kosovo. They were members of this Council. In this case, although you may have spoken a little differently within the Council, the official statement after the Council was another one, and you know that exactly. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: There was no explanation at the Berlin Council!]] No explanation! Good! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Brussels, you mean!]] You did not answer Question No 9 at all by saying that you are now talking about questions 4 to 9, although in question 9 it was precisely formulated whether, if you would like to continue standing on the ground of ever-ending neutrality, you would consistently have to veto every single CFSP measure with military implications, and necessarily because otherwise you are fellow perpetrators, helpers, even if we do not introduce physical troops. But in the moment when military action is involved by decision-making, one is fellow-deactor, even if one does not act on it. Because the one who participates in the development of the plan to rob a bank is also a fellow perpetrator, not just the one who actually rises. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's right!]] I therefore believe that you have a strange relationship with the ever-increasing neutrality and its international dimension. The constant neutrality means absolute evaluability and reliability! And only if, at the same time, you make a promise that you are veto against any decision of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, which has military implications, would we continue to be always neutral in the sense of international law. You do not have the courage to admit that this is the case – because what we have described in this urgent question is just the result, that is not a statement of intent – you are not willing to say not man enough to at least: Yes, that is the finding, therefore we have de facto given up the status of ever-increasing neutrality, although the Neutrality Act is still in space and, of course, it also contains the elements of the freedom of alliance, the elements that there may be no foreign troops in our territory and no participation in military disputes with the exception of a UN mandate in the sense of peacekeeping measures. Mr Bundeskanzler, this seems to me as if you, in order to use a picture, claim that Austria retains the status of the vow of a monk or nun who have vowed to live in a monastery and have made the chastity and poverty vows. But they behave like someone without vows in free space, like a single person. I really think this is a fatal thing! We live in the monastery and go to the disco in the evening. This is the policy you are making on the question of neutrality: Living in the monastery and going to the disco in the evening. I don't like that, because at the same time it's not good! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We should, therefore, work together to have a calm and objective debate on how Europe's security is going on and what contributions Austria should make to it. And the Liberal Forum has presented a qualified proposal, which may have a somewhat longer-term dimension, but you will not be able to blame us, namely the common European army in response to it in parallel to the European Union! As we have a common currency, we should also have a common security and foreign policy! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, there must be an emancipated solution for Europe, not one that runs exclusively in the bile water, in the wind shadows or on the frontboard of the United States of North America. They are our friends and partners, but we should emancipate from them on this issue so that we do not have to hear the accusation every day: Without doing anything, nothing can happen anyway! The Balkans crisis has clearly demonstrated: If Europe had a common foreign and security policy, a rigorous one, there would have been other ways of perhaps achieving something earlier and not only after thousands of tons of bombs had to be dropped for weeks before. Ongoing neutrality in international space also means absolute reliability, Mr. Bundeskanzler. You yourself have said that the Austrian position is sometimes not properly understood in the international area, so there is something to be done. But you can't go ahead with people in international space, the ever-ending neutrality of Austria would be just a freedom of alliance, just because we would like to have it that way. That is why I should like to say once again, Mr Bundeskanzler: The truth is reasonable to voters! And that is why your proposal, which you now call not as a ban on discussion, was a kind of peace pact, a non-democratic proposal, because something for five years disputing and abstaining from the voters for five years, is not healthy for democracy. If a democracy no longer persists in the debate on its future security policy, it will give up in one of its most vital questions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because it is one of the most vital questions: How will we behave in a military or other crisis? How will we defend ourselves, what will we be able to do? That is a vital question, and to keep it from the voters is a mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: And what about the German army reform for four years?]] And the federal government reform can then be "parked" in the Nirwana for four years. This is not reasonable to the people who work in this army, it is an insolence to those people who at last want to know in which direction the army is to move forward, in which direction it is to be reformed. Should it occur in a European army, or should it continue to act as if it were a army capable of doing something, even though we do not give it money? That's not good, you have to confess color here. And confessing color means putting the cards on the table. I hope that at last this fog will stop, that at last this damnation of people will stop, that you will finally say honestly what is happening. That would be a real concern to us, and this is a problem we must solve in Austria. We can't wait for anyone to help us on an international level. At the international level, we have already lost a lot of reputation – through our skillful positioning on the one hand and through our insincereness on the other. I am also a little on the road, perhaps not in the same state-bearing circles as you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, I may only meet people who are also very political, and I can say to you: It is surprising to say that, as a state that is still in the interests of the senses, it is always neutral, although at the same time as the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam, it has clearly created all the conditions for any intervention into military conflicts. A constantly neutral state must not even be able to intervene in military conflicts. This is a real violation of international law, and it is not healthy for a small country dependent on the right to remain right. Our friend is international law, and we walk it with feet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11487	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11508	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The position of the Social Democratic Party in this House, but also in the election movement in the past in the entire argumentation was always clear We stand on neutrality, for us neutrality is not disposition! [[Abg. Böhacker: Not only Swoboda!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Clear and cloudy water!]] We are therefore quite clear against joining NATO. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I must add that the debate is quite legitimate. It is therefore legitimate because there are two camps in this House, but also in the Federal Government. For one, represented by social democracy, there is no disposition in relation to neutrality and no possibility of NATO accession, and the other camp, the ÖVP – increasingly in the same way as the Freedom Party – considers neutrality to be an object in the treasury. [[Abg. Scheibner: Does this apply to all of you in your group?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Does this also apply to Swoboda?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why is Colleague Cap sitting in the gallery?]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] And the clarity with which one speaks for accession to NATO depends on the situation of large weather in the opinion polls. [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In this context, you must be accused of being like a reed tube in the wind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Once you argue, once so, depending on how the large weather situation of the opinion polls is. If the opinion polls in the Austrian population signal that there could be an agreement to join NATO, then you are brave, then say you want to join. If there is a current against a NATO accession of up to 80 percent, then leave the courage at once, then say that may be up to date in five, in ten years – this is what happens in the broadcast "To cause". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the Social Democrats is clear We stand by the Neutrality Act and the present interpretation and the resulting obligations: no participation in wars, no troops in Austrian territory and no accession to a military pact. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Sure she's not!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] You can be as loud as you want, ladies and gentlemen, what the Social Democrats in Austria are doing is a guarantee of this neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're very quiet, we're just laughing!]] Mr Khol! For us, this neutrality – by the way also employment – is not a Mickymaus theme. I'll tell you that with everything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What neutrality?]] This neutrality was not affected before our accession to the EU, neither by our accession to the EU nor by the Maastricht Treaty, nor by the Treaty of Amsterdam, nor by the Cologne Declaration. Mr Kier! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! You know very well that, in Article 17 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but also in all previous articles, the so-called Irish clause was expressly used, which does not affect the Union's policy on the specific nature of the security and defence policy of certain Member States, including Austria with its neutrality and its constitutional guarantee of neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not the point!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the EU's legal guarantee that our 1955 neutrality law will be fully preserved. [[Abg. Scheibner: Quote correctly! The addition is not included!]] And the same is true of the Cologne Declaration you so often quoted. In this there is expressly the wording: We want to develop effective EU-led crisis management, in which both NATO members and neutral and alliance-free EU Member States can participate fully and equally in EU operations. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a break with neutrality!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is about equal rights of neutral and NATO states. That is, only what is compatible with the legal status of the Neutrals will be included in EU law as part of the negotiations under the French Presidency. We agree, and we have made it clear from the beginning – that was not our coalition partner, but the Social Democrats: EU law only incorporates what is compatible with our neutrality law. We have said that quite clearly. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you didn't say that there!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is relatively simple, and it should also be accessible to you. It not only means that Austria is possible to conform to neutrality but also that it is even mandatory because of the existence of the Neutrality Act in Austria. The competent Federal Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also the Minister of Defence – any member of the government – is obliged in a European Council of Ministers to fully uphold the Neutrality Act and to declare its voting in such a way that a violation of the Neutrality Act does not occur in this way. EU law and Austrian law together give rise to a compelling attitude, namely to uphold the Neutrality Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is clear that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, also from the Freedom Party, are obviously struggling to do so. [[Abg. Scheibner: With your argumentation!]] But that we are not at NATO, that there is not even negotiations with NATO, that there is no enlargement, including Austria, which you want, but also what the ÖVP wants, is the result of social-democratic policy in the Federal Government, but also in the National Council. This is the neutrality guarantee of the Social Democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we order is in no way a ban on discussion – quite the contrary. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This speech even leaves the climate!]] The need for discussion is obvious and understandable. The crucial thing in this context is that the citizens are aware of the fact that the European states, but also the non-European states, are: Austria is also neutral in the next four years. If we do not say this clearly, we are dishonest, and this is to blame you and you. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards the freedom of movement]] If we do not say this clearly before the elections, this will not allow a decision by the citizen. What you want, ladies and gentlemen, is obviously that until the 3rd century. ==References====External links==* Official website Negotiations will begin in Brussels on October. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Mr. Klima wanted this!]] We will not be available for this, and you will have to take note of this, Mr Maitz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol! If you repeatedly use the concept of security lie in this context, I tell you that the accusation of lie is a sign of weakness, a sign of weakness of argumentation, but also – with all the emphasis added – of character. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The accusation of the lie is the accusation of consciously saying the untruth. You know exactly what we think you know our behaviour and voting in this regard. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben!]] And I'll tell you: The accusation hits you yourself! He is therefore meeting you, Mr Khol, because what you have done now, 110 days before the election day, is to systematically set up a lie campaign,...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11825	Mr Kostelka! I would ask you not to use this word in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11843	... a campaign in which you obviously burn the ground on which we stand, and also the bridges into the next legislative period. I'm telling you with all the clarity: Find back to a lying language!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11888	Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important issue, and I really ask you to discuss these questions in a way that is necessary and how to avoid an escalation of expressions by pro and double. Mr Spindelegger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e11912	Mr President. The Federal Chancellor has already left the government bank, as I see it. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The honourable Member, Mr Kostelka, has just explained correctly the neutrality policy of his party. If I can sum this up in a sentence: Espenlaub is probably a stability anchor compared to your neutrality policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Mr Kostelka! If I consider what the Federal Chancellor has said in his introductory remarks on security policy today, then we can only call it a dance on hot coals – which is no wonder. I can remind you again: ==References== In April 1999, at the informal meeting of the Heads of State or Government, he says, as we have heard, that it was even his proposal to formulate, that the Heads of State or Government believe that the Kosovo conflict required and justified the use of the most stringent measures, including military action. Two days later, at a SPÖ country party meeting, climate says he calls for a rapid end to NATO bombing in Kosovo. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Gaál: That's wrong!]] Example number 2: ==References== April in Washington – I can quote everything to you, my colleague, you can look at it – at the NATO Summit, Viktor Klima says in the face of Bill Clinton: I believe it is important that Milošević cannot expect to split the community of states and thus continue his work of atrocities. It is very important for the Community to show its closeness here. [[Abg. Scheibner: The double vector!]] Back in Austria it is said in the "ZiB 2": Austria sees its role as a neutral state in the field of humanitarian aid and in the search and support of a political solution. [[Abg. Gaál: This is no contradiction!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Example 3: Before the Federal Chancellor went to Cologne, he defended the neutrality and said that he would enforce it there. And what's on the 4th? June 1999 in Cologne? – He has appointed NATO Solana Secretary-General with the Heads of State and Government as Foreign Minister of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a dance on hot coals, once in a while – but not the politics we need in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr Colleague! This makes every football team that you take away the best player from the opponent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: But we don't play football!]] I believe that security policy, as the Federal Chancellor has stated, is a motto, and this is the motto of security policy: We want to be there, but we don't want to join. – This cannot be a solution for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! I agree with you that each politician has his own style, that he also has his strengths and weaknesses. I also agree with you that everyone will shape his policy according to certain personal characteristics, according to his ideology. But there must be one thing for all foreign policy, and that is that Austria's interest is at the heart of it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we expect from a German chancellor: that only the interest of Austria is the focus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: And so does he.]] Secondly, I should like to say once again, Mr Schieder: A Federal Chancellor must say the same thing in the country and abroad. He can't even talk like that once and for all. We expect this from a German chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Schmidt.]] Thirdly, we see in which direction the development is going. It is moving towards a European security association in which everyone must have a part of solidarity. That is why I also expect a German chancellor to lead us into integration and not to isolation, as is already the case today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Federal Chancellor himself has found critical words in the direction that we may not choose the right time if we choose before a election, both what the European elections last week and the National Council elections on 3rd November. In October, in the election campaign, we discussed security policy. But I have to hold on: What is going on today in Austria under the term "security lie" has a lot in itself, which has been caused by you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and by the Social Democrats. Finally, from my point of view, I can only say something that confirmed itself on Sunday: If you lie to him, you don't believe who lies three times, you won't choose him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12117	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12139	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We see here today how "some" and "closed" the Austrian Federal Government is acting on this important question of the further development of Austrian and European security policy. This will allow a number of "hope" for the next two years, when it comes to bringing in the Austrian positions precisely in this development process, which was initiated with Cologne. Federal Chancellor! I'm wondering today: What role do you have on the government bank today? Do you sit here as Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, who, as chancellor, as a representative of the entire Federal Government, should clarify the position of the Federal Government here on a urgent question? Or have you given the answers today as the head of the party of the Social Democrats? For as a Federal Chancellor, you should not have been able to express unconcealed threats here, for example in the manner: Either you don't talk about neutrality for five years now, or you say here, we won't change the Constitution over the next five years, or I'll tell you that this will be election topic, and then the voters will decide where it goes! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: He didn't say that! That wasn't a threat, that's not true!]] – Of course he said that, you did not listen. Federal Chancellor! We do not need to change the constitution at all. You've already changed them! With the article 23f you have already made it possible for us to do all that is now possible or quite safe in Cologne. Federal Chancellor! They have taken a bit of history and explained why everything has been compatible with neutrality, which Austria has accomplished in recent years and decades. You started UN accession. But you have already - perhaps you did not know - set out the first inaccuracy here. It is simply not true that Austria has joined the UN as a neutral state. At that time, 1955, we did not vote on an application for accession from the neutral Austria – that would have been a problem at the time! – but one has simply revived an application from 1947. At that time, Austria called for accession to the UN for the first time, but this failed on the Soviet Union's veto. In order to avoid precisely this precarious question, the accession of Austria from 1947, of course not neutral, has simply been revived in 1955, and this accession request has been decided in a package with many other applicants. – That was once the first injustice, Mr. Bundeskanzler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we talk about how things went on then, then I do not want to deal with the constitutional change and the war material law 91/92, but only with the accession to the European Union. Even before this accession, there was a promise made by Mr Vranitzky, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Austria will join the European Union as a neutral state. Why did they say that? – Not because one was convinced that this would really be the case, but because one knew very well that if one told the people the truth, if one had told her the truth in 1994, this referendum would have been a little different. If you really had the intention of maintaining this neutrality even after accession to the European Union at the time, you would have had to say that somewhere in the accession negotiations! Then you should have entered the Treaty of Accession! – But we don’t read about it at all. It has already been mentioned today that the applicants for accession have declared Austria, Sweden, Finland and then Norway that they will continue to take on the objectives of the common foreign and security policy without reservation – I stress: complete and unconditional! And it was certainly not a coincidence that this passage in this Treaty of Accession was included in this agreement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then came the Treaty of Amsterdam, in which the common foreign and security policy has been further developed, in which fighting efforts are planned for peace-building. – I repeat: The European Union's action to combat peace. This has certainly been formulated as a target. Good. You also said that this is not a problem for the Austrian Constitution. – Is it not, because you have passed a Constitutional Act, equivalent to the Neutrality Act, Mr. Federal Chancellor, equivalent to § 23f, with which you have made all this possible. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: So what? Read it more precisely!]] What do you mean, "Well?", Mr. Kostelka? You can't decide a neutrality law in 1955 and then, in 1998, a constitutional law that breaks exactly this neutrality! And then you say that's not a problem at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true at all! Read the text exactly!]] You say that's not true. Good. Then let us look at the definition of permanent neutrality, Mr Kostelka. I know there are different interpretations. But with all the differences You're right: First of all, there are the normal neutrals who decide for themselves whether to participate in military actions or to stand out in the face of a war situation. There are certain rules, such as the prohibition of over-flight permits, the equal treatment of all parties to the conflict et cetera. On the other hand, there is the constant neutrality, Mr Kostelka, Federal Chancellor. And the constant Neutral does not only have the obligation to be neutral in the face of a current conflict... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You want to abolish neutrality! What you want is a NATO entry on the slippery path! This is the dishonesty in your policy! Tell me what you want!]] Mr Kostelka, it is not a question of wanting to do so, but it is a question of the abolition of neutrality and of acting here today as a lawyer for this neutrality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka! The constant Neutral – and this is the minimum consensus enshrined in international law – must also in peace avoid all that brings him into a conflict situation with this partial neutrality in the case of conflict. A basic requirement is that it should not become a member of an international organisation which provides for collective security measures. This is a prerequisite for a permanent neutral! But at the latest when you join the European Union, you have broken this basic condition. You have given up Austria's neutrality at the latest with the accession to the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Everything else is just maculation, that's just talkin'! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Mr Kostelka! I read to you your interpretation, the Declaration to the Neutrality Act 1955. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You never read the Constitutional Law! For good reasons!]] – Should I read the law to you, too? - All right, please, let's read the law as well. Why? What's in there? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Because you know exactly that there is no violation of neutrality, but that on the contrary...!]] The following is the case in the Neutrality Act: "For the purpose of constantly claiming its independence externally and for the purpose of the inviolability of its territory, Austria shall declare its constant neutrality free of charge. Austria will maintain and defend these with all the means at its command." – There are already a few things inside that you could discuss, for example in connection with the defense, whether you have ever taken this seriously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And here's what it says: "Austria will not join military alliances in all future to secure these purposes and will not allow the establishment of military bases of foreign states in its territory." - Quote. Mr Kostelka! And in the explanatory notes to this neutrality law: "The constantly neutral state is obliged not to enter into any ties that could lead it into a war." – I would like to stress, Mr Kostelka! This is precisely the requirement that a permanent neutral should not join an organization which allows him to decide whether to participate or not on the basis of a conflict. That is exactly what you decided at the Cologne Summit. Because what does this agreement say? . I must tell you, I was surprised that the common defence is finally being taken seriously in Europe. – There is suddenly a need to build a common European defence, that by the end of the year 2000, the Western European Union – a military pact, Mr Kostelka, Federal Chancellor! – will be merged with the European Union and there will be a common defence. Ladies and gentlemen! Joint defense without assistance is not possible. That is what the new Mr CFSP, Solana, whom the Federal Chancellor so praised, has explicitly said. The commitment, the commitment to assist, is the staple of any security organization. And so it will come, ladies and gentlemen. They do not want to discuss this for five years, but in a year and a half, you will ensure that Austria in the European Union is involved with a commitment to assist if the Western European Union is integrated. And you also know very well that there are clear restrictions with NATO. You can guarantee everything here, but outside you will agree to all of this, you will give up all that you claim to defend here. That's your way of politics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have shown this to us in this EU election. Mr Swoboda was not allowed to be a top-level candidate because, in his theses on the future of Europe, he clearly states that NATO will in the future be indispensable to the European Union to develop a European pillar of NATO. [[The speaker holds a brochure entitled "Hannes Swoboda: Theses on the Future of Europe"]] That's why he wasn't allowed to be a top candidate. With such a top-level candidate, one can hardly enter a neutrality discussion. But just one day after this EU election, all this was returned, poor Hans Peter Martin was put into the second row, and NATO's deputy Swoboda may again be Head of Delegation. Ladies and gentlemen! This is your credibility in security policy! I am sorry that this has happened because we should really get involved in this European development. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I know that many of you are very unhappy with this discussion. And many of you tell me: ==References== October we have to continue this now, and then we can speak normally again. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not insure the population! Sage It is no longer the untruth, but together with the other political groups, you are going the way that every other country is going! Try to find a national consensus in security policy! Then ask the people whether this path is the right one, and finally create conditions for this country so that we can actively and truly equal participation in the construction of a European security structure!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12332	Mr Kostelka has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12353	Mr President. The accusation of the lie may occur in a debate in the heat of the fight. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You did that 20 times!]] But it's a question of apologising for it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Excuse me!]] This not only concerns the individual Members, but it is also a question of club and club leadership if it allows it not to apologise. As this obviously does not happen, I would ask you, Mr President, to give an order. This is urgently necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12410	High house! I would ask you to consider the following: If we agree that the accusation of a lie, addressed to a person, is condemned with a call for order, so that we can maintain a certain culture of discussion, then I can only express the request not to avoid it in the way that we use indirect formulations that actually express the same, although it happens with a choice of words which tries to secure itself. [[further calls and calls between SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] I hesitated for the first time, Dr. Kostelka, when you said to the address of the ÖVP that it should go to the next election without lying, because of course there is also something corresponding. And I also thought about whether I would quote Mr Spindelegger's saying: "Whoever lies, you don't believe him!"in this way must understand that it is with this that he addresses an accusation to a concrete person. I hope that it will be a contribution to de-escalation if, in both cases, I allow it to be used to ask you to argue in a factual way, all the more so than the Chancellor told me, he is ready and will once again try to explain Mr Spindelegger's position, despite this harsh expression, namely the position of Mr Bundeskanzler. Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12452	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Freeman.]] I think it is very essential that we refrain from personal attacks and abuses in a democratic culture. I would therefore like to comment on two points, but first of all I would like to make a point of fact on what I mean, quite serious debate by Mr Scheibner. Deputies! They rightly quoted something that was intended to be said about the merger of the European Union with the Western European Union. It was intended that the European Union would be fully merged with the Western European Union under Article 5 of the WEU Treaty. This undoubtedly has the characteristics of a military pact. But it has been very clear and clearly a concern of several countries to clarify in the conclusions of Cologne that the Article 5 assistance obligation is not integrated, is not mandatoryly integrated into the European Union and that only those parts of the WEU – in the conclusions of the European Council, o yes! – be integrated to allow reasonable cooperation. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where's that?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But it is not excluded!]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Page, Paragraph, Line?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It is very clear and clear – please be fair, it is me too! – in the corresponding declaration of Cologne that the military pact, Article 5, is not delegated the assistance obligation. Mr Spindelegger! But I agree because I assume that too You are interested in a serious discussion, but to make some clarifications to clarify any misunderstandings you may have brought to your attention. First, to the term "justified and warned". [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What?]] I'm allowed to hold on once again – the opposite was claimed several times, but that's not true –: The Berlin Declaration, decided by the Heads of State or Government, does not show this! – It is right that two weeks later at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers on 8 October. The term "justified and warned" was adopted by the General Council in April. And now I come to the informal meeting in Brussels immediately. At the informal meeting in Brussels, the German Presidency – in the Presidency's own responsibility – made a press statement on the discussion, which was never decided. But in this press release, which was discussed, several countries, not only Austria, have opposed the fact that there can be active support for the military attacks carried out by NATO, because this is not compatible with the declaration of the 15. And I then suggested: Let us take the wording on which all 15 Foreign Ministers agreed a week earlier! That was quite reasonable, as I think, because at the time all the Foreign Ministers, including the Irish, the Finnish, the Swedish and the Austrians, found a formulation that I then proposed. Mr Spindelegger! I do not think this is contrary to Austrian neutrality law, because otherwise the Austrian Foreign Minister would have been in a decision against the Austrian Federal Constitution and the Neutrality Act. That was not a decision at all. To your second remark regarding the party event. Mr Spindelegger! I made it very clear at each event that the five points decided by the United Nations, NATO and the European Union are to be accepted by Milošević. First of all, we are dealing with the end of the deportations, second with the withdrawal of military, paramilitary and police forces, third with the return of the displaced, fourth with regard to the stability to be established, and fifth with regard to the invasion of the international peacekeeping forces. Only then will the end of the bombardment follow. I have always said this very clearly and clearly. In summary, in the political speech, I said the following sentence: Finally, with the displacements and then with the bombardments! – This is not double-handed if you consider it fair and serious, Mr Spindelegger. Finally, allow me to make a comment on how the Austrian Federal Chancellor proceeds abroad. Mr Spindelegger! I was never personally – even though it was suggested to me – at the NATO summit. But I was, as you know, at the meeting of the "Partnership for Peace", the "European Atlantic Partnership Council", in which countries such as Switzerland were also represented, of course also Sweden, Finland and Ireland. If you look in the minutes, in the speeches of this meeting, you will find that I have emphasized the status of neutral Austria there. You will also note that in my opinion at the Cologne Summit, I have explained very clearly and clearly the Austrian position – federal constitution, neutrality, with these three essential points, documented in the speeches. If you ask, honourable Member, that the Austrian Federal Government give a common picture of foreign and security policy in Europe, I say: Yes, but only on the ground of the Constitution! And I've always done that.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12545	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12566	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! The fact that Austria has no common governance in terms of security policy and has not produced an option report is known. The fact that the ÖVP has broken Austrian neutrality several times and x-fold in the policy of the Minister of Defence is also known and has been repeatedly shown by the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a claim!]] It is good that these truths have become known. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Proven by nothing, only claimed!]] The fall of the SPÖ is in another area, on the one hand, that the ÖVP should always switch and control according to their good intentions, in terms of procurement policy, small arms sales and the like, and on the other hand, in order not to conjure up any coalition break, in order to perform a verbal eerance around neutrality. It seems – Austria is a country of titles and honorary sermons – that the expression "neutral Austria" has also come to a pretty slow and through the politics of the ÖVP to a practically empty title, to a neutrality ad pumpam velat estationem, a neutrality council that has been missed by this republic. Just like the court council, which is not a real one, and the academic degree, which is awarded honorably, you have carried the neutrality en passant. That's revenge now. Federal Chancellor! I would like to tell you what two words I have always had the terrible feeling that Austrian neutrality is actually being violated and broken to the mind. You have tolerated it with patience that verbal twists ultimately prepare subversive moods. This has happened with the term "solidarity". Once upon a time, social democracy – I have always seen it so – had a very clear idea of international solidarity. I have always understood the fight against exploitation, oppression, the fight for social justice, against forethought, against unfair working and exchange conditions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: There's a song!]] Meanwhile, I hear more and more that the word "solidarity" is used in a breath with "weapon brotherhood". It seems that "Solidarity" now means consistency with those who have tar cap bombs, graphite bombs and heavy tanks. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where did this happen?]] This is not my concept of solidarity, and I would like to make this clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second distortion in this way Once – in a breath with the word "driving" or "feeling" – the interpretation of the word "neutral" was "ignorant", "disinterested in human rights". This has never been the word "neutral" – even among social-democratic German Chancellors and Foreign Ministers. On the contrary, "neutral" at the time was said to be "compulsory to human rights" and wherever they are violated, there is a cry to be made. This interpretation – the cowardly look-out, the non-zur-know-how-name – has already undermined the neutrality of Austria from the mood. I do not want you, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to know that you have been advocating the Neutrality Act. I also do not believe that social democracy was intended or wanted to abolish neutrality. But I would like to remind you that, for the sake of coalition peace, you have tolerated these distortions and this climatic erodement of neutrality. There are other politicians – including social democracy – that I understand very clearly when they talk about it. This is the former Foreign Minister Pahr – I understand him when he talks about neutrality – that is also President Fischer. There are others like Mr Cap, whom I also understand; I do not share her opinion. But with you, Federal Chancellor, I don't know: "That was an informal explanation", "that was a press release", this and that. - That's not how it is! I note that your attitude is quite different from that of the ÖVP. But then put it into practice in this clarity and clarity, or let the people decide on it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! Even when you said that what happened in Kosovo was "conform" with the Charter of the United Nations, you were once again very concerned about the choice of words. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Kofi Annan said that!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, there may be some things that are "in keeping with" the intentions of the United Nations Charter, but it is dangerous – and I say that in Austria it is illegal and a breach of neutrality – to leave the interpretation of what is in line with the Charter of the United Nations a military pact, a unilateral military pact. What is in line with the Charter of the United Nations, this is clearly defined in Chapter 7. It would only be compatible with the neutrality that you say not "in accordance with the intentions" but "on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations". Then it would actually not be a break of neutrality. Because everything else leads to an insoluble rat tail of problems, Mr. Federal Chancellor. “In accordance with the provisions against the war of the attack or against the violations of the rights of the peoples – some dictator will claim to act in this way! Milošević has always said to his people: It is about the sacred rights of the Serbian population in Kosovo, it is about the great history of this people, it is about protecting against the increase of the Albanian population and the displacement of the Serbs. – Many dictators of this earth will say: I've only acted to protect my people. It therefore leads to unresolvable problems when "in accordance" with this Charter is acted without acting on its basis. For in line with the Charter of the United Nations, it would probably also be possible, Mr President, for the Kurds to live in their country, speak their language, and for the children to attend Kurdish schools. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Right!]] There we will probably wait a long time for the NATO Party to intervene in the NATO State of Turkey. The Tibetan population too has long been waiting to live in harmony with the Charter of the United Nations. Only China is too powerful a trading partner to enforce the rights of the Tibetan people. Mr Bundeskanzler, return with all the SPÖ to the ground and to the basis of the Charter of the United Nations! Because this is the only thing that is compatible with the Austrian neutrality hic et nunc. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last: Of course, the core content of neutrality – military stationing, no participation in wars – is also dangerous in the specific case. The President of the International Committee on the Red Cross says that development is very problematic: For the first time, an alliance that is ensnared in an armed conflict carries out a humanitarian action at the same time. – If there are still soldiers from neutral Austria marching with a war party, I have to ask you: Where is the nuclear stock? Hasn't it really disintegrated too much? This, of course, also applies to the issue of a common foreign and security policy. It is a bad sign if neutral Austria approves the appointment of the highest-ranking military as Mr. CFSP. Federal Chancellor! I conclude by referring once again to the words of the President of the International Committee of the Red Cross. On the question of why it is so difficult to be fully committed to neutrality and humanitarian aid, and at the same time to participate in a arms pact in some form or to support it, Sommaruga answers very clearly: Whoever carries a gun has only one hand to help. – I think the role of Austrians in Kosovo would be to help with the heart and with both hands!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12686	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12711	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have claimed that it was explicitly excluded at the Cologne Summit that in the time of the merger of the Western European Union with the European Union in one and a half years the assistance obligation will be included. I looked at the paper. There is nothing written in the Council's statement on this, and in the German Presidency's statement there is only one sentence that might have led you to this interpretation. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is not an actual correction!]] Of course, because that is wrong, Mr. Arbitrator! [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is a debate!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Just don't get nervous!]] [[Abg. You're gonna be nervous!]] It is wrong that at this summit it would have been explicitly excluded that the assistance obligation should be accepted. That's what it says: The obligation laid down in Article 5 of the Washington Treaty and Article V of the Brussels Treaty – i.e. assistance obligation with NATO and the Western European Union – shall in any case continue to exist for the Member States belonging to those Treaties. This means that it has not been prejudicated, but of course it is not excluded, but it is very likely that in the merger of the Western European Union with the European Union the assistance obligation will also be accepted. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But it will not be taken over.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12813	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12834	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that we talk about what way Austria should go. I am shocked at the fact that the Federal Government or the parliamentarians of the government parties are blaming each other for the position of the other government partners when they took place. In fact, a federal government is in place to represent a common position, especially if it operates abroad and represents Austria abroad. Now in the House to make clear in mutual accusations when wrongs have occurred on the other side of the House, is probably a witness of poverty. I think that is disastrous, I must say. That is why we urgently need this open debate with the people, and nothing else than the Liberal Forum we wanted to achieve here! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I recently met Mr Vrannitzky on the street. [[Abg. Wabl: Vrannitzky on the street?]] He told me that he fought a lot with Mr Mock at the time, but the positions abroad were always accordd with. I would like to know what kind of federal government we, if already a chaos exists, have to expect after the next election and how it will then be. I had to say something bad. If one says that the constructive abstinence is a means for us to represent neutrality, then I must say: Look at it from the other position. Let us assume that NATO – legitimate or unauthorized – is developing an activity in your area, and you want to resist it and expect neutrals to try to prevent it, at least at European level. Is it really neutral when you say: I'm leaning back and making a constructive renunciation? – It can't be neutral, it doesn't work. Then, of course, together with the others, we will be in one sack and together we will have to represent this position. This has already been presented in the conflict with Serbia. Why did we actually support a trade embargo if we are so "crazy" neutral? What's that supposed to mean? – If I am neutral, I cannot, of course, support a trade embargo expressed by one side. The logical consequence is that I do not. In my opinion, this has not been achieved if one should be neutral. What kind of neutral position is this when it is intended for deserters to be included in storage camps in Austria? – That then – fortunately, I have to say – failed, but it was originally planned to open two storage camps. It was also true that Serbian deserters were found in prison in Burgenland because they did not know exactly how to treat these people as a neutral. Obviously they have been recognised in their position. What's that supposed to mean? Is Europe a self-service shop where one can decide to do so, and another can decide not to do so? – Europe is not a self-service shop, and especially defence policy in Europe is not a self-service shop. I think this is a very dangerous position: "pick and choose". If we make a Europe in which everyone can only find out what he is currently looking for, then we no longer have European development, but rather a bunch of autistic peoples who actually do not want to cooperate with each other. Europe means exercising solidarity with one another and thus achieving a common defence policy. We call the common defence policy by name, the Liberal Forum says on it "Europe-Armee". There is a European currency, there is a desire for a European common foreign and security policy. A Mr Solana has been chosen – no happy sign at a time when NATO has not really done a hundred percent of what we expected of her! But in any case, we are moving towards a common defence policy. To refuse and to say that there is only neutrality or NATO is a refusal towards reality in Europe. We want to work together on this project, and there is a willingness to do so. It has been seen to the Heads of State that there is a certain willingness to talk about reorientating itself completely. Why does Austria not take this to the point of being a pioneer in this role? Why are there no constructive proposals from the Federal Government that could be submitted to the other states so that we can seek a common defence structure for which we need a professional army, and therefore, on the other hand, that which is currently isolated from each other could be slowly and meaningfully divided or dissolved? There's a Eurocorp. Two armies are totally integrated in the Eurocorp, namely the armies of the Netherlands and Belgium, and two more countries, including Spain, are inside their armies. So there is a nucleus. This nucleus Eurocorps is not only equipped with musical chapels and military fronts, but also with effective structures. Belgium and the Netherlands have a common superstructure in 'Navy', i.e. all the ships are executed by a joint command. That means that these are not confabulations of the liberals, but they have already taken actual steps. We only want to create them in a Europe of 15, not in a Europe of perhaps five countries that we do not belong to. This is our common position, and that is our goal. Federal Chancellor! They wanted us to dispute a subject. It is not about the dispute, it is about a common discussion with the people about the direction in which we want to go. It is not funny to fight all the time, but it is worth fighting for something that we consider very useful. A common defence policy would mean that we could act in solidarity in Europe together. This would have been the key to activities that are necessary in the Balkans, namely to act together, not as the very first at the military level. If we had said to the democratic plants that developed there that we wanted them in Europe, that they could be there in the next round of enlargement, in the second round of enlargement, and that we would make an effort to create this together with them, then a Milošević could never have reached this high-speed flight that he has reached. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It already hurts to hear that we should continue a washed position for another five years. I don't think we should. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Liberals' motion for a resolution: A referendum can only be carried out through an actual bill. What the Freedom Party obviously wants in its motion for a resolution is the option: either neutrality or NATO. [[Abg. Scheibner: There you have to read the request!]] We are in favour of a common European army, and if the European army is the subject of discussion in Austria and there is consensus, we want to help to make it clear to the population. [[Abg. Scheibner: Decision of Cologne, Mrs Colleague!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12928	Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e12949	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler, we are in favour of the debate and are also interested in being able to express our position clearly. The SPÖ's attitude is clear: We're for neutrality. We are in favour of Austria remaining neutral, because neutrality is a sensible option, in our view the only sensible, and it is also in line with the interests of our country. [[Abg. May. Main: Then why didn't you defend them?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: For your election fights!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria has no interest in participating in a war to join an alliance. Ask the population! It is clear: The Austrians do not want to wage war for foreign interests! [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you decide everything?]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat what the Federal Chancellor has already said: Austria has joined the Union as a neutral state! - Everyone knew that. And you, in particular, from the FPÖ, blamed us at the time for stressing this: "Austria is neutral and joins as a neutral state!" – Everyone knew that and everyone accepted it. With regard to the further development of the Treaty of Amsterdam: It has been accepted what has already been agreed in Maastricht, namely that the particular nature of the security and defence policy of certain Member States is not questioned. – This too is a clear reference to the fact that there is neutrality and alliance-free and that these states do not want to be included in a military alliance. Something else about Cologne – Mr Scheibner has unfortunately left the meeting room –: The final declaration, the European Council statement on this matter, is quite clear: Only the tasks of the WEU are to be carried out in connection with the performance of the Petersberg contracts. So no mention of a takeover of Article 5. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Sorry, but that's...!]] This will certainly not be included in the European Treaty. As long as we can agree on this, it will not be included, as the neutral and non-union states will not agree to it. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, neutrality policy has changed. What has been written in this regard in the urgent question is that we want to continue the policy of the 1950s to 1970s is not correct. Neutrality policy has changed very well, but it is true that neutrality has remained unchanged in its core no use for war, no foreign troops, no military alliance – that is the core, and nothing should change on it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Schmidt]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's why we're only alliance-free, but not neutral!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the near future, a few words on the question of what neutrality policy should look like, and on the claim – this topic is coming again and again – that Austria is a kickboard driver. Austria was always solidarian. I would remind you that Austria has contributed disproportionately to UN peacekeeping. Even now, in a number of countries, Austrian soldiers are serving the UN and serving peace – for example at Golan Heights, in Cyprus and in Bosnia. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: No one argues!]] There will be the use in the Western Sahara. At present, Austrian soldiers are in service with eleven different missions, and it is in the security interest of Austria to continue this tradition. That is what we understand from the security interests of Austria: peacekeeping, crisis management and crisis prevention. These are the areas where we can and will continue to contribute. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Austria is involved in the "Partnership for Peace" and Austria is very active within the OSCE. That means: We are willing to help and participate where it makes sense, and we can get in there in the way that we can best do it. The future of security policy will be prevention. The common defence policy must therefore be a policy of crisis management. I would like to stress once again what has already been said and has already been stressed repeatedly: Our Federal Chancellor and through cooperation with the other neutrals and alliance-frees have been included in the fact that we are able to participate fully and equally in the EU's operations by neutrals and alliance-frees. - That's a clear language. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Just don't join us!]] We still believe that Austria should be neutral. Austria's neutrality also has its value within the European Union. The accession to a military pact does not come into question for us because it is contrary to neutrality and does not constitute an additional security gain. I therefore think it is very important that we try to develop a common neutrality policy, that we jointly consider how we can work on the basis of the Constitution and on the ground of the Neutrality Act. This would be an important contribution in the interests of peace and peacekeeping.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13097	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13119	Mr President. No more German chancellors present! Ladies and gentlemen! Even after the speech by Dr. Hlavac, the fact remains: Austrian neutrality has changed over the past few years, both nationally and internationally. No one's going to argue. The Federal Government and this Parliament have since 1994 taken a number of decisions in the pursuit of a European security association and in the efforts of Austria to participate in it, which are increasingly of less importance to neutrality and which point towards greater solidarity for and in Europe. We from the Austrian People's Party have always stated clearly and openly which elements of this European security association will be formed, namely from the common foreign and security policy of the European Union, from the Western European Union and, of course, from NATO as a political community of values with enforcement. [[Abg. Wabl: NATO – a community of values?]] One thing is probably clear: The path is now on the EU's common foreign and security policy, and the next step will be to take in 18 months – this has been agreed in Cologne. [[Abg. Wabl: This is breakfast policy you are doing!]] A major step in this direction was the Treaty of Amsterdam, which was adopted by this Parliament with two-thirds majority, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But you know very well that the merger was originally requested!]] It is therefore unfair if the SPÖ Group decides that Austria will also be able to participate in peace-making measures, including combat operations, while at the same time trying to make the population aware that this will never be done. You promise, there is a possibility, but we will never do so. – This is called a secret reservation, and that is not a fair procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is a Constitutional Law a "secret reservation"?]] The head of the SPÖ, Mr. Rudas, says again and again: Austria does not want to take part in any war. – Of course not! Do you think anyone in Austria wants us to take part in a war? – That is of course! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Apparently not!]] In the context of the debate on a future security policy, however, it was the clear and clear intention of Mr Rudas to cause understated fear. He confuses democracy with demagogy, and that permanently on the television he was conducting at the time. The political neutrality of Mr Rudas has gone beyond that. I also think it unfair if the Federal Chancellor in Brussels calls the air attacks on the Yugoslav army necessary and justified, but two days later, in the overwhelming of the events at the SPÖ's Party Day, the immediate cessation of the bombings. In the same way, it is a distortion of the facts when the Federal Managing Director of the SPÖ and SPÖ-Klubobmann Kostelka constantly constitute NATO as a shady military pact, while the Federal Chancellor elected NATO Secretary-General as future Foreign Minister of the European Union on the same day in Cologne. I also recall an important decision by the Swiss Parliament, because Switzerland and the ever-increasing neutrality are constantly being spoken of in Swiss terms. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Where is this said again and again?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliament of Switzerland has decided by a large majority that neutral Switzerland, as an associate member, enters the NATO and PPS parliamentary assembly. [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, why? Tell me why!]] Why? – The reason was clear: In order for them to be able to vote when this important body talks about European security policy. [[Abg. Wabl: No! That's wrong!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] The Head of Delegation has told us this very clearly and clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] – This is the submission of a curious Mr. Wabl. With us in Austria, Mr President Fischer and the Socialist Group are blocking this logical step and the offer of the Parliamentary Assembly to be able to speak there at least and not just sit there and observe. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And NATO accession! That's what you want!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Say what you want! Mr Maitz, you do not have the courage to say what you want.]] This logical step prevents the Socialist Group, and also your colleague, Mr Tychtl, can only listen silently and not intervene in debates concerning our immediate neighbourhood, namely the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the dishonest, double-duty policy of this group. I say it again: A ban on discussion à la Klima does not bring us any further. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But a quick, juicy accession! Do you want to join or not?]] We want to have an objective debate on security policy, as it has shown in the TV broadcast "to cause". That is how we intend to proceed on this matter. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We don't want to hold on to Altherbrachtem, who's been changed for a long time, and no Hurra actions that nobody wants. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: It is an applicable constitutional law!]] What I wish for is an honest policy and not the zigzag course of a curious social democratic election maneuver, all of which can be seen through. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13348	Mr Dr. Ofner has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13369	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The attentive observer of the internal political scene of the last days and weeks, but also of today's event here in the House, is strengthened in the realization that a dangerous game is played by the chancellor and his confidants with the security of Austria. Of course, the chancellor knows that there are only two ways to create security for the Republic. One way is to integrate into the most suitable security system. The only really capable security system that exists far and wide is the NATO. The second option is to make it the way others do it – for example, Switzerland – that you represent the point of view: We defend ourselves and alone. We're ready to make sacrifices for it. We are not looking at every schilling, we are not gratifying with every giant, but we are trying to put on our feet a capable own national defense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But Austria is trying to go a third way. The third way looks like you're in front of the citizens and you say: We are and will remain neutral after cutting, as it was initiated decades ago, and in the rest, "civil helicopters" we are around the world. And when it comes to sending some uniforms somewhere, of course, the Austrians are everywhere. So that, when it comes to these matters, one does not only have the social democrats in mind, I quote today a very unwarranted witness. This is the Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister Schüssel, whom we could hear talking this morning. It is not only that he is the Foreign Minister, it is not only that the Minister of Defence belongs to his party, but he has made a confession today. He said, "With the starved federal army." - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I was quite amazed. That is where the party friend of what I think is the longest minister of defence in the Second Republic says, we have a starved federal army. . He admitted that it was not least his group, with the help of the coalition partner, who founded the instrument of Austrian federal army, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But whatever it is: You "deserve" each match and – even more – every time you have an inappropriate opportunity with a couple of men when it comes to observers, and with a few hundred men when it comes to other uses. We have lost our virginity at the latest with the use in Albania, because there can be no reference to UN mandate. There is clearly a NATO command in Albania. With regard to Albania's use, one can still say that the silk of revelation has really been laid, because one cannot step in the white wedding dress before the Traaltar and say that one is unspoiled, but in truth one is already pregnant. – That's about going through the area. But the use of Kosovo is becoming particularly serious now. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Beautiful comparisons you have!]] This is a striking comparison, my dear, a striking one! He may not be quite comfortable. But do it and think! [[Abg. Arbitrator: He is tasteless!]] We act as if we were unspoiled, and we're pregnant, my dear Peter. We are pregnant, this is a tasteful comparison! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Be glad I don't do any other! [[Abg. Arbitrator: A pregnant person is nothing bad! A pregnant woman is nothing bad!]] We are doing something completely different. Please join the responsible men of the army! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] They'll tell you there's no more any more capable soldiers we could send somewhere! These 450 soldiers are not to be driven up! We are not able to put these teams. They are not equipped for it, they are not trained for it! We are not able to put together a suitable team, but these people are sent in the most dangerous use that has been made so far! [[Call to the Freeman: Heavyly starved!]] Peter, you're an old rabbit! You may say that this is tasteless if I give you the benefit, but you know that there will be no peace in Kosovo – not in 14 days and not in a few months. In Kosovo, more will be shot than it is already happening! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because you want to dance on all the Kirtags, because you want to be a ghaflhuber, you tell everyone that we are neutral and want to stay, but at the same time you send 450 Austrian soldiers, which you do not have at all and which you will not bring together, in the opinion of the military, into the most dangerous battle zone of Europe after the Second World War! That is the current situation. It is a dangerous game that is played on the back of the Republic of Austria, its citizens and, above all, their sons!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13481	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13502	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, the following is addressed to the Liberal Forum, which has made this urgent request: They count quite correctly all the steps of the past years, which, of course, have been a reduction, a hallucination of neutrality. – We have also repeatedly compared this with salami tactics: each time a piece has been cut down, and the whole thing has simply become a bit less, shorter and even less meaningful. But in my opinion, in particular, you overlook the following – in which we differ in principle – in the conclusion: For years, the erodement of neutrality does not mean, in our opinion, that it should be abolished or left entirely by it – quite the contrary! You just overlook one thing: There is still neutrality in the Constitution. The one side is international law and the other sees and perceives us. You can also describe and describe this in your request. The other side, however, is very likely that neutrality is still enshrined in the Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it!]] There are three very essential areas, columns or how you want to describe them: One is not to assume any assistance obligations in a military alliance, the other is not to allow military stations in Austria, and the third is not to participate in a war. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: But they do!]] In my opinion, these three areas need not only to be strengthened and strengthened, but also to continue to work politically in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: However, we have an international obligation under our laws! That's not true!]] Now also especially in the direction of SPÖ: What is missing in order to be able to really perceive and complete what is in the Constitution is clearly the common foreign and security policy in Europe. You know, all the instigation formulas that you want to remain neutral, are neutral and have always done everything for it – my colleague Petrovic has already done this – are so unbelievable! You do not know what you are talking about, especially if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are talking about. The scope of your words, your comments and your comments that you provide are more uncertain than they give security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is missing, where, in particular, there is no attempt at all to see social democracy and no ambition at all, is the common foreign policy. What really is the common foreign and security policy? Where, in particular, is foreign policy, which would be a very important basis for security policy? - That's missing! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You do not even make a foreign and security policy!]] This is completely missing, because if I look at the Cologne paper, then I see that there is already a significant talk in it about the "security and defence policy". It is a lot of talk about what defence policy is, and it is, in particular, in the concrete measures, in the implementation – where, so to speak, it really is about the hardcore version of the whole – in fact, only and almost exclusively the talk of the military capabilities and duties that we assume. For example, we commit ourselves to further strengthening the strength of the armed forces, with all the consequences and conclusions to be drawn from them. – This is the one side: There is a lack of foreign policy, which is the basis for security policy. The other question arising from this is: What or what right is at all the framework for these security instruments that can then be developed? What's the base? – Mr Bundeskanzler, you speak of "conformity with the United Nations". In the Washington Declaration, it was then called much more significant "in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations". In my opinion, if you try to interpret what you have to interpret in relation to your neutrality policy, it would only take some degree of seriousness to strongly advise us to return to the basis of the United Nations, such as Austria's role as a neutral country, and to insist that it actually comes back to a mandate in cases of crisis management and crisis intervention by the United Nations; and not "in accordance with the" and not somehow "in the spirit" of the United Nations, but indeed with the decision of the United Nations Security Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have actually committed a scapegoat twice in the past – that is to say, to the SPÖ. I would also like to say this again to you, especially according to the Chancellor's words. One case of sin is mentioned in the urgent request: This was the statement by Kostelka and Khol, which made it clear once again that such measures do not require a decision by the United Nations Security Council, and this is once again reinforced. But the second case of sin – and I would like to mention this again here – was the amendment of the criminal code in relation to the threat of neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it!]] This was a very important case of sin, namely that it could be not only a Security Council decision but also an EU Council decision. These are two cases of sin which you have clearly committed and which are in stark contradiction with that, Federal Chancellor, try to do what you are doing here and make us wise! They also try to bring through – I can only emphasize this over and over again – quite wonderful interpretations back to where it once was. If that were serious to you, you would have to make a correction here, then you would have to make a correction here – there is certainly the possibility to make further correction in the way I mentioned it at first – that the only possible basis, the only possible level where the right to such security instruments should be, can only be that of the United Nations – only and exclusively these! This possibility exists, as I have said, yet. But the situation as I see it in this house between the ÖVP and the SPÖ is as follows: There is the ÖVP, which attacks against neutrality, which appears quite clearly and repeatedly against the law. That is always the subject of us. This procedure is particularly questionable and worrying when it is ministers who are committed to the constitution of Austria, but who simply express their popularity on various occasions. This happened, for example, not too long ago at the WEU meeting. Both Fassleven and Ferrero-Waldner spoke very clear words there that could and should not have anything to do with their position as Minister or State Secretary of this Republic. - That's the one side. I can only say the following: Make it clear that the population of Austria knows what it is about! In this election campaign, make it clear that you want to change the Constitution. On the other hand, the SPÖ, which performs a strange acrobatics, is actually doing gymnastics on this neutrality parquet, but somehow does not really come to something from which it would be recognizable. – But you still have the opportunity to do so, I tell you. You still have the opportunity, and you still have the opportunity: Make it clear, even now in the election campaign! Make it clear that you want to return to the level and base of the United Nations, the United Nations Security Council decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13606	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Mr President, your group still has a speaking time of 7 minutes in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13627	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate talks to the government bank. Dr. Kostelka.]] – I also welcome the increase in the government bank by the SPÖ Klubobmann; one can see how strongly executive and legislative are restricted in Austria, since a... – I know that, I know, a closed door and unfortunately not the microphones, because we would all be interested in what you have been talking about for the last half hour. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: We had a conversation today!]] It's a public house. Ladies and gentlemen would certainly have been interested. I know that you are looking for the government bank anyway, Mr Kostelka... [[Abg. Schieder: Mr Barmüller is playing a little President!]] - Please, Mr. Arbitrator? [[Abg. Arbitrators: You're playing a little Parliamentary President for a minute now!]] . I do not play Parliamentary President, Member of Parliament, arbitrator, but I only point out how the government parties are really doing in this House. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You know everything better! Sorry!]] Ladies and gentlemen are already taking a picture of it themselves, Member of Parliament. Don't worry about it! We see – and this concerns us, ladies and gentlemen – that the sincerity and predictability of the argumentation in politics, including, in particular, the government fractions, are increasingly diminishing. This leads, Mr Arbitrator, to the fact that we are of course losing credibility on the international parquet. Not by chance, there were no Austrians who negotiated this conflict. The reason for this was that we have no credibility or less credibility before international bodies on these issues. If, according to the opinion of the Liberals, the Austrian Federal Government became increasingly untrustworthy of this behaviour, then we would be pleased – and that was a concern with this urgent request in the House – if at least once from ORF were to try to research what the government says where. I know that from the head of the ORF at the political level, there is not least an intensive basis for discussion with your head of the federal government as well as between executive and legislative. So we'd be glad if that happened. It would be the task of Austrian broadcasting to show, in this context, where the inconsistencies of this government are, and not always only to report what Mr Rudas has told us about the media, and what was to be heard at the round of the Secretary-General or the Federal Managing Director. To an increasing extent – and I say this also in the direction of Mrs Hlavac – one gets the impression that one believes that people can be led behind the light with very fine nuances. It is true that Austria has joined the European Union as a neutral state. That's not a question at all. But the question is how this is developing. If all that we have done here were without any doubt compatible with neutrality, then there would have been no constitutional change, especially no amendment to Article 23f B-VG. Mrs Hlavac! Nor would it have required an amendment to the § 320 criminal code in 1991, which expressly means that there is a threat of neutrality. If that is true, what the Federal Chancellor has also told us here, namely that everything has been clear since 1955, if an action is taking place on the basis of a UN security mandate, I ask you: Why, then, did one have to change the criminal record of the threat of neutrality in 1991 so that military materials with destination could be carried out in Iraq through Austria? If since 1955 it has already been so clear that this does not pose a threat to neutrality, then the criminal code should not have been changed. They have therefore changed it because otherwise it would have been simple and simply punishable, and the courts would have been obliged to execute it. In order not to do so, you have amended § 320 of the Criminal Code, Neutrality Threat, in 1991, after midnight in this House. Now you mean it's all clear anyway. Then I wonder: Why, then, in the course of Austria's accession to the European Union, and in particular, in the version of the Treaty of Amsterdam, has there been a change in § 320 of the Criminal Code, which is a threat to neutrality, if all of this is not a contradiction, Mrs Hlavac, if this could never lead to a conflict in this House and in general Judicatur? You have therefore also amended the Criminal Code in the course of the Treaty of Amsterdam, because you know that otherwise, if such measures are put in place and carried out by Austria – Mrs Hlavac, I am sure that you will hear this because I simply want to point out that you no longer argue in this way – in fact, the members of the government are also at risk of resolving a conflict in accordance with § 320 of the Criminal Code. [[Abg. Dr. Hlavac speaks to Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] You didn't want all of this, and that's why you changed it. Nevertheless, stand out here today and tell everyone sitting there on the top of the gallery: Don't worry! It's all right! Since 1955, our line has been clear. We have to change the § 320 criminal code, which is called a threat to neutrality, again and again, but you do not need to believe that it has meaning, because in this House we do so much without meaning, and we always like to change the criminal code once again, because in fact there is nothing else to do. No one will believe in you, but the people will understand that it is because it has a very real background, and that it could be that the members of the government will be used criminally even once if they do not stick to it. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to point out that the Federal Chancellor, although he said that he wanted to have a discussion on this question, did not answer our urgent question in many areas. Indeed, we have asked quite deliberately 20 questions, in which we have also referred to the legal side, because we want to reach one, ladies and gentlemen, in this discourse: We want to achieve that security policy will also be discussed in the course of the National Council elections and elections in October. But we want to achieve, from a liberal point of view, that we are discussing on the basis of facts. But today, the Federal Chancellor has not considered it worth answering individual questions that are quite simply to be answered with Yes or No, and in which, for example, it is also a question of asking him whether he sees it compatible with Article 23 f B-VG, that Austria is also involved in peace-building measures – that is, in the case of combat operations in regions where there is still a conflict and where the conflict is ended – and not only in peace-keeping measures in which Austria, like you, honourable Member Hlavac, is participating. The Federal Chancellor did not think it worth answering this question in concrete terms. He also did not tell us whether what is stated in the explanatory remarks to the already quoted request of Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol concerning amendments to the Austrian Constitution because of the Treaty of Amsterdam also corresponds to the law of the Federal Government that combat operations are explicitly allowed even without the decision of the UN Security Council. He has not told us whether this is the legal status of the Federal Government. I think it is a sand-in-the-eye-human scatter that you are not prepared to give answers to very factual legal questions, legal questions, so that we can discuss on an out-of-court basis. You don't do that, but you make yourself and say: Don't worry, neutrality is in good hands at SPÖ! Although we continue to change the Constitution and the Criminal Code, we will continue to tell people, the SPÖ says that neutrality is not changed. Whoever believes will be blessed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13717	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time for your club is 9 minutes, so I am setting this time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13739	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am actually surprised that in such a debate so much is said, which is either wrong or at least superficial – I do not use the word that has been used so often here. I do not even address what may be a mistake of thought, for example, when Mrs Petrovic accuses the Federal Chancellor that Austria has agreed to the appointment of the 'high-ranking NATO military' as 'Mr CFSP'. – The Secretary-General is high-ranking, but he is truly no one. It can only be a mental mistake. But I am speaking now of the fact that things are presented here as they were not really, and that, for example, the impression here is given that the neutrality was great, clear and powerful in 1955, but since then has gradually been broken down or taken away. [[Abg. Scheibner: Means for purpose!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's it!]] – It’s not that way! If you knew the debates held in this House in 1952, 1953, 1954 and 1955, you would look at the decision that led to this law, you would follow the reports most clearly presented by Stourzh "History of the State Treaty" with the best comments from the second edition, then you would see that at the beginning the neutrality for the politics of Austria, the Federal Government, the Parliament in truth was a synonym for the three things that we call today as the core of neutrality: the non-participation in the war, the non-participation in a military pact and the non-admission of foreign troops on our territory. It was not until later that a position was adopted which greatly increased neutrality. There have been things that have not been understood in the beginning, and there has also been an up and down in the understanding of neutrality. Now, for example, we have come back to that understanding of neutrality, at a core, which at the beginning was also discussed in the reflections on the formulation, even in the discussions on the State Treaty as an equivalent content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] You, Mr Barmüller, represent it as if from the very beginning there had been the existence of the threat of neutrality in criminal law, and as if they had been taken away. – No, there was no such crime at all in the beginning. Check when he came into the law! The whole idea comes from the 1970s and not from the fifties. There the neutrality has been expanded and then traced back. Or the question of United Nations – neutrality. Mr Scheibner! You are right to say that the first proposal of the Second World War is that of the Second World War. ==References== But you are not right if you say that it is not the request of neutral Austria, but an old request has been made. No, no, no, The application has been constantly renewed – the first one from 1947 – and it has been renewed almost annually. The last request, which was made at all, dates back to 23. August 1954 and was therefore none of the neutral Austria, because neutral Austria did not exist until autumn 1955. So, loud little blurs become visible. Or to take over the obligation to assist: Of course, there are three points in the Cologne Treaty. But what is always said with it? – The obligation to assist remains for those they have in these organisations. But it will not be taken over, so that the others fall under. So, if certain things are to be presented, it is very hard work to do. Or the UN or UN – neutrality. I'll read you a few words: The question of those who believe that this is not compatible is ill. "For them, the concept of neutrality seems rigid – that is, apriorous – which it is not in reality. The concept of neutrality is rather associated with the changes of the international legal community, which proves the history of the concept of neutrality. The organization of the international community is marked by the UN, which does not need any further evidence. The content of modern neutrality is then given its special character by this state-wide organization, when a state that has a permanent neutrality, without giving up its neutrality, becomes a member of this organization." – This was not written by the Red, but by the international legalist and later ÖVP MP Ermacora. This is not an explanation from today, but a contribution that he wrote in 1957 on this question. [[Abg. Scheibner: You said that all of this doesn't apply anymore!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Neutrality and membership in the UN were possible, and it was always clear that a neutral can and must follow this. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Schieder! What application has now been voted on?]] In between, there have been other opinions. However, we have essentially returned to this attitude. As you have said, the UN did not want to vote on a request from neutral Austria, but it did not have any neutral Austria, all the applications have already been submitted. That was all clear. In the preamble to the State Treaty, the four powers have become known, and it was also clear that our neutrality is associated with membership of the United Nations. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's exactly what I said, Mr. Schieder!]] This also shows documents, not only at Zemanek, but also again at Stourzh and very many others. You can read all of this. If you don't believe me, at least believe in the history of Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! At last. If today the Federal Chancellor has tried to present everything very clearly and very quietly, he has also managed to give a real picture of how Austria understands this question and how it behaves. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't mean that!]] If some people feel like speaking lies here in connection with the attitude of social democracy, it is not just a question of rejecting this word. For this is not polite, and I believe that Mr Spindelegger has not proved to be a good service with the fact that he has taken it upon himself to play this little saying here for his party. But what surprises me even more is – yes, we will not be able to agree – the following: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Maitz]] We have a debate on the war, and we have a debate against the war. And in this debate against the war one uses among partners the most wary words one finds. That certainly does not make sense.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13859	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13880	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Arbitrator has given an interesting lecture on the history of neutrality, but that is exactly your problem, Mr Schieder, which is the problem of your policy. In fact, it has turned backwards, it is defensive and structural conservative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something to Mrs Hlavac, who meant that we do not want to wage war on foreign interests. I wonder, Who in this house wants to wage war for foreign interests? - No one wants that! But when it comes to ending mass displacements, mass rapes and mass shootings, I must say that these are not foreign interests, but these are all our interests in the sense of human rights! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! They have said in your remarks that neutrality is not self-evident, but means for the purpose. On this point, of course, I agree with you, because the purpose that is meant here is probably the safety of Austria. On this point, however, the SPÖ has a credibility problem and is obviously also hit, not only because you give the impression – I would at least put it this way – that you say something different abroad than domestically, but at least what you say to accentuate differently. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Pure ÖVP propaganda!]] And you therefore have a problem of credibility, because, of course, we have changed the Constitution on the basis of the Treaty of Amsterdam, because it was necessary. Of course, you also have a problem of credibility because, if you are so hot for an active neutrality policy, you should not allow the SPÖ to try for years to financially starve the Austrian federal army. This is the accusation I'm making to the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are – and you know that very well – with a budget share of around 22 billion for the Austrian federal army, i.e. 0.85 percent of the gross domestic product, absolute final light in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Has the Fassleven agreed to the budgets? You, Mr Amon, have decided.]] If you want to make credible neutrality policies based on independent national defence, you must not allow the SPÖ to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Safety in the compound is quite simply cheaper. However, you, Federal Chancellor, say that you are indeed in favour of a European security structure. But you're not saying what you mean in detail. The European Union as such is probably not a security structure. You say we don't want to go to the Western European Union, and you say we don't want to go to NATO. But I'm asking you: Then what do we want? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The Neutrality Act!]] What does social democracy want if, on the other hand, it is also financially starved by the Austrian federal army and thus does not really support an active neutrality policy? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! What you are not saying is that in the European Union, of course, there is a common sense that there should be no double structures – not in military terms – so that there is no plan for the construction of double structures. That is why it is also the idea of the Liberal Forum to set up its own European army, one that is not realized, because the Western European Union is also known to have all its members in NATO and not elsewhere. [[Abg. Wabl: Tell me where we're taking the money for the tanks and interceptors!]] If Mr. Arbitrator brought a quote from Mr. Dr. Ermacora from the 1950s – 1957 – I would like to give you a slightly more up-to-date quote here, one of the ones you... Yes, yes, I did not say anything else. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There was the claim that no one had this opinion in the fifties! That's why I quoted him from the fifties!]] I have just said that you quoted him with a statement from the 1950s, and I am holding to you a more recent quote, which is logically not one of Dr Ermacora, but of one you know very well, which you made yesterday to surprise the entire Austrian public as the Head of Delegation of your group in the European Parliament. I quote from last autumn, in which it is said, Dr. Swoboda, "proceeded therefore to develop a strong European component of NATO. Consequences continued in the end to be a security-political Europe, which was also called for military action. If Austria wants to join in this way in solidarity and commitment, it is difficult to avoid accession to NATO." – The Head of Delegation of the SPÖ spoke in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e13998	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Bauer. Mr deputies, you want a voluntary speaking time of 5 minutes. Your club will be available for 10 minutes. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: 5 minutes!]] I'll set up 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14027	High house! Federal Chancellor! In the 1970s, when the visas of Red and Black Kreisky and Schleinzer were called, the following jokes were curtailed in Austria: Kreisky and Schleinzer are surprised when fishing animal protectors. Schleinzer, upright as he was, fishes unerringly, takes his caught fish from the fishing and kills them. [[Abg. Grabner: You didn't know him!]] Kreisky, on the other hand, is freed when he sees the animal protectors, his fish cautiously from the fishing, takes him under the arm and caresses him. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The joke has a beard, it's sooo long!]] His secretary is running to him: Dr. Kreisky, what are you doing? You there? [[Call the SPÖ:G’schleichler counter!]] [[Further calls.]] Dr. Kreisky said to his secretary: Look, the fish is going to be like this, but the people like it so much! Yeah, haha! [[Call the SPÖ:Haha!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! This method has been prescribed in the abolition, in the death of the Austrian neutrality. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: That was better the Meischberger!]] Carefully from the Angel – from the Constitution – take the neutrality – so happens with the Federal Constitutional Law novels of 1995 and 1998 – and then bring They are careful to inform the public that neutrality must be put to death, because since 1995 one has been a member of the European Union and as such has simply signed and had to sign that within this European Union defence and security policy is a very central common concern. Federal Chancellor! You can still rotate so many and so often Pirouettes on this question: You will not be able to really talk to anyone who thinks about it and make it credible that there is any association in which an equal member – and we are an equal member of the European Union; especially you from the Federal Government stress this on every occasion, we are an equal member – who has the same rights, à la longue, in the medium term, does not also have the same obligations. Such a course of action There is no association, and therefore there is no such thing as the European Union! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It makes no sense either, Mr Federal Chancellor, to say that we refuse mutual assistance in a common defence policy. What do we have if we are going to be so half there and there, because we just want to be neutral, to participate in actions? Although we send soldiers to Kosovo, the NATO aircraft must not fly so much "for domestic use" Austria. What do we have of it, on the other hand, but then, once, what God may prevent, we should depend on the common assistance of the other members, say: No, we don't need that, we're neutral!Unknown term type: "%s".? That doesn't make sense. Federal Chancellor! You know all this very well, so you signed the Treaty of Amsterdam without reservation, and therefore you have now fully contributed to the decisions taken by Cologne, which are in the process of furthering and developing this common defence policy. Finally, at the end of 2000, the whole should lead to a merger of the European Union with the WEU military pact. You know all this exactly, just for the "domestic use", in the sense of the joke of Dr. Kreisky, you make a few more pirouettes when you're home, and say: No, no, we're already keeping neutrality! – They even dispute an entire election campaign, but it is not credible, and you can’t really believe it yourself. High house! The Liberal Group considers the question of Austrian neutrality to be a far too serious one to leave them electoral and party-tactical games. I therefore agree to submit a motion for a resolution on the implementation of a referendum on future Austrian security policy. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you for the short extension, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14162	The motion for a resolution just read is submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, sufficiently supported and included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Wabl, who has a speaking time of 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14192	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Party is, of course, quite right in its urgent request, because it has become quite unbearable in recent years, how in the security discussion with political maneuvers an incredibly dishonest policy is being pursued and tried to hide. Finally, the whole could only be corrected by one choice. I must say that I am glad that the EU election has made at least one clarification: There have been too many people within the SPÖ, and I believe that there have been too many people, including Swoboda, Cap, also Vranitzky and, in some cases, climates that have meant that the Austrian people should be slowly prepared for the fact that neutrality is what the ÖVP has long claimed, namely, a piece to be put down. Fortunately, however, these people have not been enforced within social democracy because of an election, because the historical situation has made the government more or less directly and indirectly forced it to make clear its colour. You can look at the latest comments made by Khol, Schüssel and Stenzel shortly before the EU election: The word "NATO" was no longer used, the word "NATO" was avoided. All the more clearly, the social democrats and exponents of social democracy have made clear: They are on the ground of the Constitution, they will protect neutrality. The climate has personally given rise to its revelation in this direction, even if the accusation is certainly true, Mrs Schmidt, that this has been unfairly played in recent months and years. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish that there would be more elections, because a very clear opinion of the population on this issue has led to the political decision-makers not being able to continue to operate their political maneuvers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, right what Mr Schieder says: that neutrality is developing, because geopolitical conditions are also changing, because of the fact that the military, the political changes are inevitable and a small, neutral country has to react to them. Mr Schieder, I will give you the right. But what should a social democracy state clearly and clearly in this situation? Is that what your party members do in this context in part, what Swoboda has done, what in part has Vranitzky done? Or does it not correspond to the good tradition of social democracy, to say that law can only be guaranteed by clear definitions, as they have been made in the UN Charter, that a monopoly of violence can never be exercised by a military alliance? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Is it not the good tradition of a social-democratic movement to say throughout Europe and worldwide: It can never be so that Presidents, rulers, no matter what country, in what proportions, know how to maintain peace!Unknown term type: "%s".? This must be a Community process of legal investigation, of truth finding, just as it is set out in the international organizations. This must also be the way of Austria and must be the way of the Austrian government. Federal Chancellor! I am glad that you have made it clear that there will be no accession of Austria to NATO in the next millennium. Federal Chancellor! I am very pleased that the Green Party has at least partially succeeded, which has contributed to the fact that this question has been debated in such a way and that social democracy has also been brought to bear a clear commitment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the present situation in Kosovo, where the UůK, which has not been disarmed by the so-called peace army and community of values NATO, is now declaring war to the Russian soldiers – you can read it in tomorrow’s newspapers – then you know... – You can’t believe everything. [[Abg. Zweytick: You can't believe everything!]] Mr Zweytick! I really don't believe everything, especially what's in the "Kronen Zeitung" or what's in other newspapers. But it is obvious that if the population in Kosovo receives NATO as a winner and the Russian army is shot there by the UůK, which has nothing to do with a peace-making mission. This situation has arisen because politicians in Europe and in America clearly imagined that they could decide what is good for the world and for people. Mr Zweytick! We will be more often faced with the cruel reality that, in some situations, we do not know exactly what to do. But one was sure, and one is safe today, and one will be sure tomorrow: The bombardment on countries cannot hope for the support of neutrals and cannot lead to peace.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14250	There is now a speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Go ahead. Mr deputies, you still have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14272	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! As the last speaker in a debate on a urgent request, one always has the great pleasure of being able to speak at least in front of a full house. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to sum up a little: What is left of this debate? – On the one hand, the ÖVP's attempt, after three-quarters of years, to take a cuddly course, to develop an independent position for the next election campaign, on the other hand, the attempt by SPÖ: the chancellor, who tries to speak up neutrality. The more literate he has tried to do this, the clearer it has become for me and the whole group, but also for the people, how far we have already spiritually removed ourselves from this neutrality and that the rails have already been laid to smuggle this Austria past the population into the WEU. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is why I would like to ask you to support the motion for a resolution which is free. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the Treaty of Amsterdam – but many experts have also said, since accession to the EU – Austria has already agreed on neutrality. This, however, has not prevented the socialist group from maintaining the myth of neutrality against better knowledge. Why are you doing that? – Because you know that you can remove this subject at any time, that you can emotionalize it, and that you can score with this issue especially among women, especially women of the older generation. Federal Chancellor! Dear colleagues! You may be able to influence a electoral result with this theme, but serious policy is not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! They sell the neutrality... [[Calls.]] [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate and Federal Minister Dr. Someone talk to each other on the government bank.]] . I know that the Minister for Transport is speaking to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but as the last speaker please pay your attention. Federal Chancellor! They sell the population the neutrality like a shield that you just need to relax and protect us from all unbil. But it is a free screen, an advertising screen because this neutrality is not worth money either. I remember my own time with the German army, where at that time, in 1970, just after the Czech crisis, we were told that in the case of a threat in the German Kaiserslautern, phantom hunters are already being prepared, on which only the Austrian sovereign sign is missing. In retrospect, this has also proved to be a myth – and you take care of these myths. How do you really keep up with neutrality? – Once again, I quote the Neutrality Act: Austria will defend this neutrality with all the means at its command. – But what are these means at commandments? The new "profile" titled: "The pathetic Federal Lord." It is said that the equipment is outdated and broken, the equipment is insufficient, the training has to be done a lot, the staff structure... [[Abg. Koppler: The Ofer has already said that!]] You can't say that often enough, because you don't understand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the "profile" it goes on to say that the personnel structure is insufficient, the federal army is outdated. It would be irresponsible – as Mr Ofner said – to send a team of Austrians to this crisis region. It would be irresponsible to set off poorly equipped groundmen or, as they are today called, recruits in this direction. It is also not possible for the ÖVP to steal from its responsibilities, because you have been setting up the relevant regional ministers for decades by the ÖVP and are therefore responsible for these defence budgets. [[Complaints with the liberals]] All in all, this debate is a failure. The coalitionary bed in the extra room is already freshly covered for the time after the elections. October. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14343	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the places, because we are voting, and we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the implementation of a referendum on future Austrian security policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14383	We are now entering into a brief debate on the request made by Mr Dr. Salzl, the Constitutional Committee for the Reporting of People's Desire to create a Federal Animal Protection Act (171 of the Supplements) for a period of until 12. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and The vote on this request will take place after the end of the debate. We are going into the debate. I remember the Rules of Procedure. Each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker is available for 10 minutes to justify the request. The members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary shall also, if possible, be guided by a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes. I now give the floor to the applicant, Mr Dr. Salzl. You have a speech time of 10 minutes, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14417	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as in the case of a request for urgent debated before, this request for a deadline will clearly show the inconsistency of this Federal Government with regard to its words and actions. In particular before elections, ladies and gentlemen, a lot is promised to the individual interest groups, which cannot be held or held afterwards. The same applies to animal welfare, where – especially at SPÖ – there is a very large discrepancy between Sunday's speeches and action. Ladies and gentlemen! While the ÖVP is clearly opposed to a federal uniform animal welfare law – one can stand on how to do it; I don't want to say anything about it at all – the SPÖ performs an eiertanz similar to the neutrality debate. It acts according to the motto: "Wash my fur, but don't make me wet." It should be noted to the animal protectionists that one would be in favour of a federal animal welfare law, but the blame would be placed on the coalition partner and that there would not be a federal animal welfare law without the consent of the ÖVP. It would not make animal welfare a coalition issue, for example, Mr Kostelka, but under his chairmanship, for years the animal welfare population has been dragged into a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Even more interesting in this context is the behaviour of the Federal Chancellor. I can still remember very well how, for example, Mr Klima – at the time he was the Transport Minister – at an Austrian Animal Protection Congress – as so often before elections, there were elections in front of the door – explained to the animal protectionists and the animal welfare organizations that there would be a uniform animal welfare law. At the time, he promised them a federal animal welfare law. Now exactly this gentleman is Federal Chancellor, and he is embarrassed: It is embarrassing that elections will be re-elected on the one hand and that compliance with its promises on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! The current situation in the field of animal welfare and animal transport, which we are still discussing today, is extremely unsatisfactory. Many Austrians have already recognized this in 1993 and have collected over 350 000 signatures with the help of a large daily newspaper – signatures for a federal animal welfare law. In view of the failure of these many Signatories to comply with the request, the animal welfare organisations have finally decided to carry out a popular animal welfare desire. Already in March 1996, some 460 000 Austrians signed a popular animal welfare desire entitled "A Right for Animals". At the time, they called for a federal animal welfare law, the anchoring of animal and environmental protection in the Constitution, the establishment of an independent animal prosecution, the recognition of animal welfare as a public interest and the promotion of animal welfare work. Ladies and gentlemen! These requirements are justified from a liberal point of view, for anyone who knows the legal fragmentation of Austrian animal welfare legislation cannot be satisfied with the current situation in the area of animal welfare. There are currently 11 national animal welfare laws in nine federal states, if I may refer to them as such. In addition to the Landestierschutzgesetz in Salzburg, there is also a Salzburg Farm Animal Protection Act, and there is still a law in Vorarlberg on measures to combat noise, caused by animals or when holding animals. I can also say that there is still a similar law in the Burgenland, so that there are even twelve federal laws in nine federal states. In addition, there are many regulations throughout Austria. There are over 35 regulations, ladies and gentlemen, both nationally and nationally. Nor are the Article 15a agreements, which have been promoted in this way, appropriate to bring about a genuinely structural adjustment of the legal fragmentation of this animal protection right. On the contrary: According to experts, they even lead to a further division of law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This continues to open the door and the door to animal torture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Go, please!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only the veterinarians torment the animals!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! They don't understand. I have noticed this very often in the context of the debates in the Subcommittee. Unfortunately, once again I have to take note of your ignorance of animal welfare. It really hurts me to have to listen to what you're squeezing about animal protection! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They should actually know that, because of this legal fragmentation in animal welfare, the animals in the countries have a different meaning that an animal is treated differently depending on whether it lives in Salzburg, Burgenland or Tyrol. They would have to know that the animals are kept uneven due to this different importance and the different animal welfare standards. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have that in the construction order too!]] For example, a dog or a cat has different importance depending on the federal state. Ironically speaking, one should say: A dog or a cat should be protected from this ÖVP, an animal should be careful to get a gentleman in a federal country that has a worse animal protection than another federal country. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Dogs and cats only have to beware of the veterinarians, for they are tormented by them!]] In fact, this is not to be justified and not to understand in any way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The shelters will give you the answer. They will give you the answer at the latest during the next elections. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also significant that a large country like Germany has a Federal Animal Protection Act and has only eight regulations which regulate the different areas. It is therefore the rigid attitude within the EIA to be justified by nothing. Even federalist Switzerland has only one federal animal protection law and a regulation that precisely regulates the different forms of attitudes. [[Abg. Zweytick: Why not?]] That is, there are the same standards in the different cantons – the same standards for all animals, which is also right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, we liberals believe that a federal animal welfare law is a command of the hour. We do not want and will not continue to see about 460 000 signers and about 300 000 signers in the post, that is, more than 760 000 people who have taken up a federal animal welfare law are still on their noses! For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we have made this request for a deadline, in which we call on the National Council, to report to the Constitutional Committee on the submission of 171 supplements, popular requests for the creation of a Federal Animal Protection Act, a period of time until 12. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of us liberals, it is high time to honour the intention behind this popular desire even before the end of this legislative period with a discharge in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing shall be added to this application. It is now time to confess color in this legislative period. It will be very interesting to see ladies and gentlemen, who are really committed to a federal uniform animal welfare law and who is simply trying to comfort the animal protectors and continue to carry around at the nose. [[Abg. Zweytick: With the matter, this has nothing to do with it at all! It's just polemics! Pure Polemik!]] We shall take a very close look at this vote, Mr Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14543	Mrs Perfuss. Madam honourable Member, you have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14564	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Salzl, you are right in a lot, but I would like to reject the shell in our direction. You know our commitment to a Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me first of all take advantage of the opportunity to thank all those who have initiated and supported the animal welfare desire and who have also worked on the draft Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] The numerous animals-moving people, the animal welfare organisations, the staff of Parliament and the club, as well as the representatives who are working for animal welfare, and the experts have helped us to have a wealth of information and documents on animal welfare which were not available before popular desire. All these documents and information allow for the conclusion that only a Federal Animal Protection Act would provide an adequate basis for modern, uniform animal protection in Austria. In addition, the national harmonisation of standards is also a useful measure in order to be able to demand higher standards with one voice in the European Community. At least we must agree within our national borders so that we can be credible about the interests of animal welfare at EU level. Consider the animal transport law, which we will defend vehemently, or also the current debate on chicken cage farming in the EU. If we are unable to establish uniform rules in the country, we cannot ask them in the EU either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My conviction shared by hundreds of thousands of people and numerous animal welfare experts, namely that we urgently need a federal animal protection law, is supported by numerous arguments. Dr. Salzl has listed a lot of facts. I do not want to mention all of them again, but only to list a few in an alternative way in order to save speaking time. A uniform animal protection cannot be achieved through Article 15a contracts. This has already been demonstrated by an analysis prepared by experts and the practice. Article 15a contracts are only an expression of will. But the countries still explain them the way they like it. The consequence of this is, of course, that the animals in Austria are still treated and kept differently from one country to another. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Dear colleague Zweytick! Also numerous provisions in Article 15a Treaties are not up-to-date. Especially in livestock farming, they aim very much at economics, but not at animal welfare. You'll probably be able to confirm that. [[Abg. Zweytick: Of course!]] Further fact is: When implementing EU directives, the national legislation is more than necessary, if not even... – they are not respected. [[Abg. Zweytick: The agreements in the Styria are very restrictive and are also respected!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for You're not being held. I would like to give some examples of this. There are still numerous arguments for a Federal Animal Protection Act, but one of the most important for me is the support of the animal welfare people's desire by 460,000 Austrians, who are very concerned about animal welfare and who demand a Federal Animal Protection Act. We have been commissioned by the population, and we must take serious care of this concern. Four parties in this House see this the same way!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14640	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14662	Mr President. High house! The FPÖ should admit today that it is not about the Federal Animal Protection Act, but about populism before the end of this legislative period, because it will be clear to everyone that a Federal Animal Protection Act in July is unlikely to be adopted by this initiative. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then you should not bring in any laws at all if everything is populism!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Austria has set up a number of initiatives which are exemplary throughout Europe, even worldwide, especially in the field of animal welfare and also through the desire for animal welfare. Even before the popular animal welfare desire in 1996, an Article 15a Treaty on farm animal husbandry has succeeded in developing a single federal regime which is exemplary for Europe, which sets standards for Europe as a whole, in which we would be glad if only the Germans or Swisss were to comply closely with them. At the same time, Austria's agriculture ensures the competitiveness and the agricultural and rural farms in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the course of the discussions on animal welfare, we held infinitely many discussions and expert discussions, which were quite positive. As a result of the same, nine federal states have now signed an Article 15a Treaty on non-agricultural animal welfare, which is currently being implemented very successfully. This contract is also exemplary worldwide and not only creates for pets, for the pets regulations, but also forbids, for example, the purchase of ears and tails, the breeding of discipline and much more. At the same time, it also lays down rules for both zoos and zoos, both for zoos and for animals. This is a world-wide model and uniform system. But we are against a federal animal protection law. We say that quite openly. We are against this because the distribution of competence alone does not improve the law for a long time. We have an excellent example of this, namely the Federal Animal Transport Act. This is a federal legislation for which the Federal Minister is responsible. But all the errors that are constantly being accused of media-actively, whether on television or in newspapers, are primarily involved in animal transport. There are insufficient regulations, so there is a high need for regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Minister is responsible. As early as 1997, the national conference asked the Minister of State for talks to improve the execution, e.g. with regard to the level of punishment in connection with animal breeding sites for farm animals. To this day, this conversation has not taken place. Ladies and gentlemen! In this house... – Yes, of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] This is a unanimous decision of the 1997 national conference. To date, the Federal Minister has not found it necessary to hold this discussion. [[New call for tender of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] The federal competence alone, ladies and gentlemen, does not solve anything. That's simple and just seem holy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are also examples of this. 57 dog cubs were confiscated. This is not regulated by your federal animal transport law. But let me say one last thing – my speaking time is limited –: I am somewhat surprised at the FPÖ, which is always committed to the protection of agriculture, because it is trying to play the green and the SPÖ's hands on this issue. You know exactly what the proposal of the Greens and SPÖ looks like for a Federal Animal Protection Act. Both parties are not satisfied with regulating non-agricultural animal welfare, but are mainly concerned with farm animal husbandry. The Green proposal includes, for example, schemes that would cost Austrian farmers investments of 11.5 billion schilling. This investment cannot take effect on Austrian agriculture! But if we are to have them subsidized by the state, then you have to tell us what area we should take away these resources: the families or who else? Ladies and gentlemen! This means the loss of agricultural holdings, which means the loss of the livelihood for Austrian farmers. We must tell the farmers that the FPÖ is playing. I'm sure we're not going to go along with it. Certainly not with the FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14751	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Chief. Speech time: 5 minutes – please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14772	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for Mrs Rauch-Kallat's speech because she has once again revealed what the Austrian People's Party is about. It is not about animal welfare, it is not about agriculture, it is only about continuing its lobbyism for industrial agriculture and killing the small farmers in Austria, the farm, the agricultural agriculture, and finally the fine food shop of Austria in a small way and very slow! This can only exist if the consumer also has confidence that the products are produced and placed on the market in animal welfare. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! In my view, your contribution to the debate has been clear and complete in relation to agriculture. The beneficiaries of your Article 15a agreements with the countries in the field of farm animals are exclusively and only the large agricultural industries and certainly not the farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Zweytick! You can "lift" quietly, for you as a winegrower, animal welfare is probably not vital. However, for those who have full-biological production rails, it is vital that the consumer, the interested consumer in their products and in the production of their products, have full confidence that the animal health indices are fully implemented and that a federal uniform scheme is coming, just as you wish to establish it in the quality marks for your area. If I look at the debate of the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture in this area, which now wants to award Austrian products and national products with national quality seals, in order to assure producers and consumers that what is on the market has been produced on the one hand, animal health and animal welfare, on the other hand, fully biologically and consumer-friendlyly, I believe that today in your parliamentary group you are, with your rejection of a federal animal welfare law, behind the considerations of your own representation. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's why you're so insecure because you're insecure the consumers!]] You will probably have to recognize in the next legislative period that your group, the National Council Group of the Austrian People's Party, is far behind what your farms, your farmers' representatives outside the public have long recognized, which is the basis of their existence and which is the only fair basis for the survival struggle of farmers in Austria against the large industry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now to the role of the Constitutional Committee and of Mr Kostelka: Considering that the matter of law in question was already settled on 30 July. On 12 May 1996 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka's last round of talks, which was convened 24 hours ago by Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, are waiting for the two proposals which are now in place in the Constitutional Subcommittee, namely Mrs Binder's request and the request made by the Socialist Group, to be finally re-united and decided, and I must say that it is a debated sign for me today if we are to put forward this motion for a term of office. We are interested in introducing a definitive regime for more than 600 000 Austrians during this legislative period. I tell you one thing, Mr Zweytick: With your article 15a you can be quite on the edge; on 3rd. Finally, it will be voted on in October. [[Abg. Zweytick: I said that: elections are about to happen! That's the true background!]] But one thing should finally come to your mind, Mr Zweytick, that, with regard to the practice which has widened across Europe at the expense of the animals – starting from the feed industry to the production of food – it has never been so clearly and clearly demonstrated that it is being carried out at the expense of three group interests: at the expense of the health of consumers, at the expense of the income situation of farmers and in order to maximize profits and to privatise the risk factor for the large industry and the pharmaceutical industry. Think about it! You know, from the dioxin scandal in Belgium to the traces of dioxin in Austrian feed, it is only a short way. Imagine that 4,000 picograms of dioxin in the feed of the company Agra Tagger in Styria are not a "leacherl" but a health hazard for large Austrian populations and in the food chain for thousands of animals, be it chickens or pigs! You might be able to ignore this today. You may still be able to ignore this tomorrow, but you cannot ignore one, namely the indisputable fact that science has been putting on the table since 1990: that all the consequences of this animal torture process are to the detriment of the consumer and constitute a health hazard to the consumer! You may still not care about the animals, but the question is whether your voters, consumers, will also forgive you, Mr Zweytick! – I’m sure: no!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14845	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14866	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rauch-Kallat, in my understanding today it is not about populism, but it is about taking popular desires seriously and not letting them die unfulfilled. Mr Salzl's motion for a time limit gives us once again the opportunity to draw attention to a bizarre situation. On a rare occasion, a matter has experienced as many discussions in parliamentary treatment as the animal welfare people's desire, without even taking a step forward. If we do not take the deadline back into account today, it should be assumed that this House does not mean that it is serious with the concept of democracy. For the popular desire must be dealt with until the next National Council election, otherwise the request will be lost. [[Prolonged calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! They know that there is a majority here in the House for a federal animal welfare law. They therefore bear the responsibility if this request expires. I would like to thank the Signatories Mrs Parfuss, who have spoken, and I think they are too late and not appropriate. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] We already have the in-depth consultations on animal welfare. ==References====External links== All well-known experts, with the exception of the ÖVP experts, have expressed their support for a federal animal welfare law, as it also corresponds to the 460 000 signatures. There are also a number of requests in this direction that should have been given material advice so that we can reach a conclusion during this legislative period. However, we also know why we do not have a targeting condition: The countries are vehemently opposed to federal uniform directives and continue to support Article 15a agreements – agreements based on voluntaryity, of which each federal state can therefore adopt its decision at any time. Mr Salzl! Unfortunately, it is also a fact that the representatives of the FPÖ in the country parliaments have not yet made a strong contribution to a federal animal welfare law. For how can one make the statement of the clubman of the liberal group in the Vorarlberger Landtag, which was given on 9 May? Reading February in a press release was different? I quote: Otherwise, the FPÖ feels that the Article 15a agreement, with which animal protection can be regulated by the federal states themselves, is the right starting point for the revision of the existing national animal welfare law. – End of quote. So Vorarlberg is ready to create a new national animal protection law, and the liberals are going along. I'd just like to tell you this without becoming a polemic. Dr. Salzl! This is certainly not a good condition if Their representatives in the federal states act in this way. We Liberals continue to be prepared to advocate a federal animal welfare law and therefore agree with this deadline proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14930	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e14952	Mr President. High house! This is what the lists look like, which then lead to the phenomenon, which is then called axely and inadvertently political or democratic indifference. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] You're wondering why so many people don't have a good hair at all – under quotation marks – leaving "politics"? - I'm afraid people are right! That's an insult. That's the list of annihilation. No matter from which side it was tried to uncouple sub-areas, such as the trap or the circuses – the ÖVP says no. The animal protectionists – we have said, then do not make the greens, not the liberals, not the liberals a text, but the animal protectionists – make a text, the citizens under the guidance of expert lawyers – but the ÖVP says no. [[Abg. Smoking callat: It's done!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! What are you doing? Don't you read a paper? – Every day a new scandal comes to light that concerns animals. You can treat, with this, Mr. Schwarzenberger, either animals as living beings, as feeling and sensitive fellow creatures, and take them into account in the law, or treat them as lifeless creatures with which you can somehow jump. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! What do you think, what comes out at the end of the food chain, if you always put dirt into the animals before – literally a dirt?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Equilibrium oil, animal body! That is a question of attitude, of attitude, because animal welfare is an indivisible principle! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: This is an increase in Austrian agriculture! This is an increase in Austrian agriculture!]] Either you act with respect and reverence for the animals, but that must also be expressed in the laws, in a uniform and higher standard. How do you explain that? – The examples have been mentioned that animals may be mutilated at random, cut off limbs. There are still so many exceptions! [[Abg. Smoking Callat: You can't do it anymore! You can't do it anymore!]] – You can, this is still allowed if – under quotation marks – it is "for the benefit of the animal". You can easily get this confirmation if someone can earn money from it. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, the animals are a commodity in your eyes, because they are made in large-scale shops. There are international agricultural lobbies, and these are not the small farmers, because they have nothing of them at all. On the contrary: The small farmers are just as sufferers as the consumers and the animals. This is an attitude expressed here, and this attitude is bad. However, I do not fully understand social democracy either, because on the one hand you have shown by the SPÖ in some of the materials that, if you want – you, the strongest group in this House; on the other hand, by the last election, you have once again emphasized as number one – you are very capable of doing so. But where is your role as number one in Austria when it comes, for example, to animal welfare? – It is not done with saying: In principle we would be in favour of this, four parties are for it, but the coalition partner does not want to, he does not let us. He's got the Raiffeisen organization in his back, he can't, he can't. I'm really asking you: Where is your power, where are your mandates? – Especially now, in the last part-session – a deadline application! What are you afraid of now, what's going to happen? Should the coalition be dissolved and the National Council dissolved? – That happens like that! And that in some areas of the seaweeds we have heard today about the neutrality debate. So what are you afraid of now? Why is it not possible to agree now? As I said, This is not a draft of the Greens, it is not a liberal draft, but a draft of the zodiacists, audited by constitutional judges, hieved and solid, but it does not get your consent. Why not? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh yes! But we would be in breach of the Treaty!]] – Would you become a contract? And you're more likely to buy it that you're saying 600,000 citizens, you can slip your back? [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Is this a contractual fidelity to the population – precisely from that party that has received the clearest advance of confidence?- Oh, my God! – You have shown it: When it comes to other areas of power policy, such as dental crowns or bank-austria shares, Austrian social democracy can fight. But for a few animals, for a few "pockets" and a few people who are interested in it, you haven't thrown your weight of power into the scales yet, and that's sad and sad.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15072	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting on the deadline proposal. The subject of the vote is the request of Mr Dr. Salzl, the Constitutional Committee for the Reporting of People's Desire for the creation of a Federal Animal Protection Act, 171 of the Supplements, a deadline until 12. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15112	I will now resume the negotiations on points 5 to 7 of the agenda – they concern the Austrian Federal Roadmap and the Master Plan. The next item is the report by Mr Edler. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15136	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the premise of Austrian transport policy is based on the prevention of unnecessary transport, second on the shift to environmentally friendly modes of transport and third on the involvement of people and regions. We certainly need a great deal of follow-up to rail development. I believe that the Master Plan has been properly implemented. If the discussion is about the fact that the rail is currently unable to transport more goods, so that the relocation is practically included, I must say that these discussions are certainly sometimes correct in terms of content. But first of all we must create the conditions for the railway to be able to take up increasing traffic and especially heavy traffic. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it's all about. It is particularly important to support the shift of dangerous goods to the rails, which the Federal Minister also has to offer to one. There are forecasts that, over the next 10 to 15 years, freight transport, heavy transport, will increase by 30 to 40 per cent, and that, especially as regards the countries of reform, we would be double burdened in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! The present master plan shows the necessary expansion stages especially in the rail network. The internal network of Austria should be supported in principle. I would also particularly like to address the strengthened stages of expansion towards the countries of the reform. They are absolutely necessary because the traffic will not only double, but even despise. With regard to the development phases in these reform countries, which are also supported by Brussels, it is unfortunately not the case that the rails are being forced there, but rather the road. I therefore believe that we in Brussels have an effect on the development of rail in these reform countries. Ladies and gentlemen! It was unfortunate that the transport speaker of the ÖVP, Mr Kukacka, did not at all address the cost of transport. It is apparently not interesting and not a problem for the coalition partner at all. They note that the drivers of the car are subsidising the truck cross-subsidising. We Socialists do not take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. We also need to talk about the use of the road and see the truck as an accident causer without generally condemning the truck – it certainly has its meaning in the area. But I think transit traffic and heavy traffic have to be relocated. But we are lacking, ladies and gentlemen, over 12 billion schilling, which, if we had introduced truck-road pricing in good time, we would have been able to increase road safety, but also for the construction of discharge roads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also a railway driver for a networked transport policy. I am in favour of forcing the extension of the rail network, but where it is necessary, we also need to build discharge roads or waterways. In order not to have me speak again tomorrow, I would like to say as regards the petition "The construction of the north-east of Vienna": It was also included in the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Vienna motorway and expressway rings and decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers. I am pleased to note this as the Danube City MP. Ladies and gentlemen! We did an action day yesterday because in the districts on the left side of the Danube, in the Danube town and in Floridsdorf, we have a daily traffic superstau. But this is also the case with the neighbouring districts. The drivers can no longer drive and no longer drive away. Of course, we must first increase public transport. This is also happening, but these routes are absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! We've had this calculated. We have a national economic loss of about 1 billion schilling every year on the southeast tangent. This amount represents the accident costs or the costs incurred by congestion and environmental pollution. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say: I am in favour of an intelligent, networked transport policy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15204	Mr Gaugg spoke with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15226	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What we have experienced today during the debate on the question of Austria's neutrality has been a moral picture, as can not be done between two government parties. It seems that from now on, every speech made by representatives of the two government parties is to be paid to the previous partners for a period of four years. Four years of cuddly course, four years you sit together in the boat, four years you make the old proporz system, split up and similar more – and then, before elections, this cuscal animal-menitity is taken suddenly. Regrettably, it is not possible to demand the resolution of this Parliament as a matter of urgency. Let us be glad that the public does not yet know what you are driving in here, because this false fact that you are leading here is free of any seriosity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is, for example, a motion for a resolution that has been four and a half years old. But I agree with Mr Bundesminister that he did not read it, because at the time he was the Minister of the Interior, and as far as public transport is concerned, he was concerned only with the question of how he is moving forward as an interior minister. Minister! Now you have presented a Master Plan and your colleague Farnleitner a study on the road network, and after months it was said that you could actually discuss and deal with it together. Now you're pretending to be the yellow of the egg! I guess it can't be. And if the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is then unisono said that it would not have been necessary to provide financial support or to take over the costs, then it is simply and decisively wrong. Finally, the planned measures, when they are implemented, represent something positive for the population, for transport and ultimately for the economy – but there is no money for them. That is, these two studies are a "letter to the Christkind", and when the fulfillment of these wishes will come, no one really knows. The fact that the confidence of the SPÖ and ÖVP Members is not very strong shows, however, that a resolution was tabled at the last Transport Committee meeting. That is to say, trust in the existing Federal Government cannot be great if, at the same time, the representatives of the two government parties are going to make a motion for a resolution calling on the government to put these measures into effect. The motion for a resolution does not provide for financial support, according to the motto: "Someone's gonna pay for it!" – Although the pickerl has been introduced, in Austria we have the highest taxes on petrol prices, all this is still not enough. Now we're talking about road pricing, but that's being rejected by the business community. I am already excited to see how Mr Cot will behave stupidly in the vote. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Me too! That's where I'm excited!]] This is always adventurous, and this is always accepted in the public and in the media. Sure, they're bought with the press promotion! All of this can be done. There is a Council of Ministers decision that road pricing will be introduced, so the ÖVP is for it, and Mr Stumpfully will then raise his hand in order to secure his survival in this Parliament. The criticism of transport policy is, by the way, shared by experts, whether the Knoflager or others. Knoflacher said – I literally quote – that was a nice paper, but in the end it was incomplete. For example, it seems that the economy is exclusively in and around Vienna, for if I take the Federal State of Carinthia as an example, I must point out that I am missing in this plan the improvements on the South Railway: They are not mentioned with a word and with no schilling! There is neither a time nor a financial cover for the expansion of the package section, there is nothing like that. The Carinthian Members of ÖVP and SPÖ have little to do with this, but I am very concerned about this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gatterer.]] - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. Are you not interested in expanding the package section? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would have expected you to do that. Do you want to continue on this trail to Klagenfurt or to Villach? I'll ask you that. I am also concerned because in this Federal Government there seems to be only more politics taking place after disasters or because of incidents. If there had been no accident in the Tauerntunnel, the construction of the second tunnel tube would not even be a topic. I wonder how this government, which acts like this today, would act if – guard God! – the same would happen tomorrow at the Felbertauerntunnel. Would you also meet in the Council of Ministers and say: Yes, we do now!Unknown term type: "%s".? I warn the people of your promises! Last: Galtür. What was not promised from red and black ministers to the Federal Chancellor! It was called: They will help, they will support, and they will take all measures to help quickly. The accident has been several months ago, but not even brocades have been given to those who have suffered damage. It will be the same with the Tauerntunnel. I do not believe that you will implement transport policy measures unless you take precautions for financial protection. As long as this is not the case and as long as the Schubraupe doesn't drive, I don't believe anything anymore, and the population won't do it either!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15279	Deputies! I am sorry, Mr President, that you have presented a motion for a resolution which I would distribute on account of its length. Will anyone else go in on it? Under the Rules of Procedure, you must present at least the key points. [[Abg. Gaugg: This is what Mr Firlinger is doing!]] There is no mention of this; I would just like to draw your attention to it. Now Mr. Federal Minister has made a statement. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15309	Mr President. High house! Let me briefly say a few words about the Master Plan, especially since Mr Gaugg is always disappointed and says everything he does not have in his hands. Deputies! It's not true, you have a lot more in your hands! They say, for example, that there is no word about the extension of the South Railway. [[Abg. Gaugg: One word!]] – May I read to you what projects are inside? – The expansion of Wiener Neustadt – Gloggnitz, the Semmering Base Tunnel Gloggnitz – Mürzzuschlag, the extension of the Mürzzuschlag – Bruck at the Mur, the expansion of Bruck at the Mur – Graz, which is less interested in the new Koralmbahn Graz – Klagenfurt, the new construction line Klagenfurt – Villach, the double-track extension Villach – Tarvis and the electrification and capacity increase of the Aspang Railway. [[Abg. Gaugg: When?]] Deputies! These are measures in the Master Plan that will be planned for the next 15 years. It's also inside: This is a development plan for the Austrian transport infrastructure, with very clear objectives. [[Abg. Gaugg: We'll see!]] Perhaps in this respect I can also reply to Mr Kukacka again – "at least a little". He has proposed to me to pursue a balance concept, which is that I should do something of everything "a little bit," a bit of road, a bit of rail and a little water, then he would have nothing against it. He only has the feeling that I'm building a lot too much track and, of course, a lot too little road. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The right thing everywhere!]] Deputies! It's very easy: We have principles of transport policy, and the principle of transport policy, which I feel obliged to do, is a transport organisation that takes into account the interests of the inhabitants and the natural interests of Austria, trying to provide the necessary capacity. That is why we mainly put on the track and not on the road – because we encounter natural boundaries that are no longer extensible at all – in a way that the people who live and work in this country accept. That's the simple reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not a question at all – I should like to say this again – that we are saying: Street is "evil" and rail is "good". That would be a very blue-eyed form of politics. What it is about is to achieve a sustainable transport organisation. This means that we must prefer environmentally friendly means of transport or environmentally friendly means of transport. At the same time, we must ensure that transports which are not necessary and which are taking place today because the road is far too cheap. This is the goal that we have to pursue, because otherwise we only generate one, namely more and more traffic and more exhaust gases, and ultimately more and more dead and injured on Austria's roads. The reason why the Master Plan focuses mainly on rail is that it is the most environmentally friendly means of land transport. Of course, the Master Plan also provides information on how this should be financed. High house! They all know that the basic concept of the Federal Government's financing of the land transport routes is essentially based on the principle that we want to use those who cause the costs to bear the costs. We have introduced this principle in the area of railways with the rail charging system, and this rail-use fee not only serves interest on the received loans from the rail infrastructure financing company, but also on capital. The railway pays for investments in its new infrastructures. The same was also provided for the road. There it was planned that a toll dependent on driving performance would come into being, as early as 1998. It has not come, but it remains necessary, and it will come, it will have to come. It is the requirement that the road projects submitted by Mr Farnleitner can now be financed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The principle, therefore, is that we remove costs that are more responsible, that we put in place the necessary measures on this basis, and at the same time ensure that traffic does not grow over our heads. That is the principle we are pursuing, and that is why this policy can be financed. [[Abg. Gaugg: Set priorities!]] Mr Gaugg! That I don't get into the pants bag so to speak and pay it, has a very good reason: There are better methods of financing than all of this from means of taxation. [[Abg. Gaugg: One has already failed! The Semmering Base Tunnel has already failed!]] There should be a levy paid by those who cause the traffic that causes the costs, and we believe that this is a very good principle of sustainability, which is contained in this plan.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15426	Thank you, Minister of State. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make the following point: I have the floor with regard to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Magistrate. Firlinger considers that he was not presented in the key points. In the meantime, I have made sure that, at an earlier stage in the debate, Mr Deputies has power. Firlinger did that. The request has therefore been submitted in accordance with the rules of business and I am now causing its distribution; it is included in the negotiations. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15510	As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15531	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In October 1998 the report on the development of high-level transport infrastructure was presented by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport. This so-called Master Plan includes the expansion of the high-level rail and road transport network until 2015. We have heard a lot about this today. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! They believe, according to this Master Plan, that the extension of the rail is particularly necessary. But many experts and I too believe that this Master Plan seems to be difficult, and I would like to point out that there are difficulties in the field of regional transport in practice. The flexibility of the railway is not given, so we need a well-developed road network for regional transport in particular. In Lower Austria, many urgently needed projects in the area of the development of the high-level road network have not been taken into account. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of the West motorway west of St. Pölten or of the extension of the B 3, which is now completed from Korneuburg to Tulln, but is still not extended in the further area from Tulln to Krems in conjunction with the construction of a Danube bridge near Traiswall. Furthermore, I am thinking of the North-East bypass in Vienna or the extension of the B 7. But these are just a few examples. This Master Plan was also criticised by the authorities and offices represented in the Contact Committee, especially because no formal vote was taken before its publication. In January of this year, a study on the design of the road network in the Donau European area was finally presented by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, taking into account Austria's economic location. This GSD study is based on the approach of economic areas or corridor studies, and its main task is to adapt the Austrian road network to a pan-European solution. In the second stage, this plan provides for a further deepening in the form of cross-road network or corridor studies, which will take into account multimodal aspects and, above all, the environmental issues in good form. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These two studies made it necessary for a subcommittee to be formed from members of the Building and Transport Committee. ==References== ==References== The subcommittee met on 9 June. Adopted by the Transport Committee on the report of the Subcommittee and the decision to submit to the National Council a draft resolution on the merger of the Master Plan project with the GSD study. This resolution mandates both ministries to carry out the further work together on the basis of the results of the Master Plan and the GSD study and to bring it together in the Federal Roadmap Plan. In this context, particular attention should be paid to both transport and environmental issues, as well as to spatial and economic issues, as well as to safety aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a solid basis. With this request, we have come a bit closer to the future Federal Transport Road Plan.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15584	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15605	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Although some figures have already been mentioned in the debate, I would like to recall once again the relationship between public transport and, above all, the increase in individual traffic, both in the area of trucks and in the case of passenger cars. Today, in London, an international conference on the environment and health started, which I do not accept, Mr Minister, because you have to be represented here in plenary, but Minister of the Environment Bartenstein is my knowledge there. Austria also officially presented the following figures: that passenger and truck transport in the EU from 1970 to 1995 has more than doubled and that the proportions of bicycle and public transport have fallen by 38 and 40 percent respectively. I would just like to remind you that not only since today or last year, but for at least ten years, we have been talking about moving traffic from road to rail. So enough was spoken, but reality looks completely different. The figures on public transport are more than sad. Rail freight has fallen by 22 percent across the EU, and if you look at the forecasts, they are so incredible that they actually encounter real, physical and geographical limits. The EU's forecasts are that East-West passenger transport will triple and increase by 356 percent in the truck sector by 2030. Another interesting statistics, which has also been presented by Austria today, concerns a joint project by Austria, France and Switzerland on the damage to transport, the damage caused by truck and passenger transport. Because if we are discussing environmental pollution here, this is partly a very relative matter for most of the people in this House, because it concerns them very little personally. But the merging of concrete damage, not only environmental damage, but also personal damage, health damage, may make the subject a little more appealing and tangible for some. According to the Ministry of the Environment – Minister Bartenstein, today, I suppose, I am also presenting it at the conference – about 2,400 deaths in Austria are due to environmental pollution from transport. In this study, experts have found that some 1,500 hospitalizations due to respiratory diseases, some 2,900 cardiovascular and some 20,000 bronchitis diseases in children are due to the individual traffic of cars and trucks in Austria. Asthma cases and anything else are specifically mentioned in this study. And because the costs are always spoken of – also by Mr Gaugg of the FPÖ; this always comes in the way: my God, the drivers are the poor who have to pay so much, these are the milk cows of the nation et cetera et cetera: The immaterial cost of pain, suffering, loss of quality of life, cost of production failure and medical treatment costs in Austria amount to 39.8 billion schilling, which is 5 000 s per capita. This is an official study of the Ministry of the Environment. These are not figures that the Greens are presenting today, but quite official figures that must naturally be thought of in such a debate. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me, therefore, why a party is constantly accusing traffic, now that truck and car traffic, is supposed to be too expensive, it is too high a fuel price that it is too high a total cost. - That's a total nonsense! We continue to shift the costs absolutely to the general public, we externalize the costs. They have long since been not integrated, either in the fuel price or in other fuel costs. As long as it does not really manage to bring these individual areas together, we do not need to talk about sustainable transport policy at all, Minister of Transport. I see that you are committed to increasing the weight of the railways in Austria. And I deeply regret that in your own group, both here in the house, and apparently in many federal states, you will not get the support for your master plan, which you would basically deserve with your proposals, including the cost of infrastructure expansion. The motion for a resolution to be put to the vote here today is, in my view, a clear step backwards, from an environmental, from a health perspective and also from a transport policy point of view. The combination of the ideas of the economic resort, which are still really extremely one-dimensional, and thus the weakening of the master plan in the sense that, because of course, the schilling will not be spent twice, the resources for the railway infrastructure will be reduced, thereby restoring the balance between road and rail, I believe that this is a step back, which is absolutely an environmental policy. We will certainly not agree to the request. Federal Minister! As long as transport policy at last fails to be designed in such a way that ministers not only talk to each other but also plan each other in good time from the start, all parties will fail: She is the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment with his announcements at the various conferences to which he is driving. I would just like to remind you: We promised a reduction target in Kyoto. This reduction target will become binding in a few years. That is 13 percent reduction of greenhouse gases in the period 2008 to 2012 based on the 1990 figures. We in Austria are far above that. The last figures show that greenhouse gases, CO2, continue to rise in Austria. All we know about data shows that this is mainly and mainly from traffic. The forecasts show that this will continue to increase over the next few years. This means that there is a massive need to do something directly in the transport sector, otherwise the problem will not be dealt with. The Minister of the Environment speaks of these plans at conferences, then the Minister of Transport makes a master plan, obviously without proper coordination with other departments, both economic and financial, from the outset, and comes out something which is certainly satisfactory for no one and which certainly does not serve the cause – instead of investing primarily in infrastructure, in public transport, in the rail sector and finally taking seriously the objectives set. Minister! Again: I have noticed in the discussions over the last few months that there is a clear understanding on your part that there is a need for priority investment in an area. I wonder about the SPÖ colleagues who, from my point of view, do not support much in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15670	Mr Dietachmayr has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15692	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My previous speaker has just referred to the fact that the forecasts are not so favourable, but I believe that we in particular should take measures to avoid prognosis. Transport is intended to serve people and not vice versa, and therefore we Social Democrats are also committed to a transport policy that is geared towards the welfare of people on the one hand, to the needs of the economy and to the specificities of the geographical situation of Austria on the other. It is therefore necessary to coordinate the transport infrastructure of rail and road with an integrated transport concept – I would like to stress this in particular – in order to ensure that it strengthens each other in an optimal way in its impact. It is very important that we see both aspects. With an efficient transport system, we want to contribute to making the Austrian transport network more competitive and environmentally compatible with innovative, environmentally sound and socially sound solutions. The Master Plan is a central part of the Austrian Federal Transport Road Plan. Therefore, we should not weigh or play out master plan and GSD study against each other, because both plans are important for handling traffic. The basics are enough, and the forecasts that my previous speaker has also pointed out speak for themselves. All experts agree: Transport will continue to grow. With the prosperity and settlement development of the population, passenger transport has increased considerably. The car stock in Austria has increased by 31 percent over the last ten years to over 5.1 million motor vehicles. However, the number of passengers in the ÖBB increased by only 18 percent. There are also high levels of growth in air transport, and everyone knows that in this area capacity limits are very slow. As we all know, traffic trends in freight and transit are particularly worrying, as 80 percent of freight traffic is now handled on the road. We know that, external trade will increase by around 6 percent annually by the year 2010. In freight transport, railways have constantly lost market shares in road transport in recent years, so appropriate measures have to be taken. But I also ask: What is the task of politics now? – Policy must not be exhausted in the loophole of high-level road networks, which, of course, is also important, but must promote the development of rail infrastructure to an essential extent. Ladies and gentlemen! However, measures must also be taken which do not allow these forecasts and horror scenarios to occur at all. This also includes avoiding unnecessary transport and, above all, actual cost truthfulness. The latter is a very essential aspect of this problem. When moving the freight transport from the road to the rail, the railway has a huge catch-up requirement. A transport policy objective must therefore be to shift transport to environmentally friendly transport at the same time as the source. But of course the acceptance of the population is also necessary. The example of Semmering shows how difficult it is to implement projects. That is why this problem is in no way to become the playing ball of political small arms. As in Switzerland, road traffic will follow the economic principle of the shortest road in the future. I mean, there's a lot to be done about this from Switzerland. The solution looks so that 500 000 kilometres of vehicle per day are less driven by road. This means a substantial relief from people and the environment. The link between several public transport modes and the optimization of timetables is at least as important as the construction of additional rails. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Kurzbauer, has just made it clear that not only trans-regional transport, but also regional transport is important. I can tell him from the example of Upper Austria that the country of Upper Austria under negotiation of our Council of State Dipl.-Ing. Erich Haider has unanimously decided on a contract of transport services, a measure which will also ensure regional passenger transport for the next 20 years. The aim is not only to keep customers at the Bundesbahn, but also to win new customers. In principle, transport policy, which I mentioned earlier, has been for people to do so and to focus on the objectives of environmental protection and the protection of life and health. The Master Plan is an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15757	The honourable Member's head is also mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15778	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: It is probably undisputed that, if we take seriously the knowledge that transport, especially freight, is to be brought from the road to the railways, we first need a competitive offer on the rails. There is, of course, still a great deal to be done in the development of our rail transport, and that is why we should in principle welcome this master plan and the development plans. Mr Federal Minister, two specific questions in this context. First: How can it be reconciled with this high goal that, for example, on the line Graz – Regensburg, as I am told, the rolling country road has just now been stopped? – I hope that this is not due to the fact that the ÖBB, even a large road compartment, is now possible on the road. Second question: There is a very pulsating economic area on and around Lake Constance with connection from Vorarlberg to Switzerland and to Southern Germany. The Master Plan lacks the extension towards the south of Germany, which could only be achieved by means of a two-track tunnel through the gate. The same applies to a two-track extension towards San Margarethen in Switzerland, most likely in parallel to S 18. Is it about supplementing this plan accordingly? Or else ask: Why are such important pieces missing in this plan? Federal Minister! For up-to-date reasons, there is a very different subject, but it is no less dangerous. After the accident in the Tauerntunnel, they have issued a regulation governing the transport of dangerous goods in tunnels with counter-traffic traffic. I assume that the criticism of insiders and those concerned has already come to your attention that this regulation is not feasible in this form or leads to security problems on the other hand. If, unfortunately, any transport of dangerous goods – and unfortunately it is not differentiated in the hazard class as well; so this also concerns any transport that is in itself safe but under "hazardous" means – now must have an approval of the tunnel guard and a accompanying vehicle, then in practice this will result in these cars possibly waiting in front of the tunnel due to non-existent spaces, until they are accompanied by them, which – the driver rises there and rises there – poses an additional risk for the other road users. So this cannot be the last end of wisdom in trying to create more safety in our tunnels. Second point in this context: They have announced a further regulation in the Council of Ministers aimed at extending the weekend ban on the carriage of dangerous goods to non-driving classes. How should the local supply still work if we can no longer produce petrol from Friday at 8 o'clock in the morning, so that we can no longer produce heating oil? Please do not refer to the summer now, because this only applies for the summer months, because heating oil is also used for other purposes. How is this supposed to work if we are to stop the supply from this Friday onward? - It can't work! This is also the case in this case. Try to weigh between minimization of risks on the one hand and balance and appropriateness of the measures on the other, before such a drastic measure – as has been said, without differentiation of the hazard classes – is carried out overly.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15828	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of this report III-154 of the supplements and III-154 of the supplements. If you would like to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1927. If you stand up for it, I'll ask for a sign to do so. – This is also done by the majority, therefore adopted. (E 186.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Thomas Barmüller and comrades on the introduction of necessary measures to develop the transport-technical connection of the Obersteiermark. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades on Federal Roadmap, Network Supplement and Network Improvements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Firlinger and comrades concerning lift of safety in tunnels. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is the minority, therefore also rejected. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1928. If you would like to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of his report in 1929. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. I notice: The report has been taken note of. 8. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion 1048/A by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Helmut Kukacka and comrades concerning a federal law on the investigation of accidents and disturbances in the operation of civil aircraft (air traffic accident investigation law – FLUG) and amending the Aviation Act (1930 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1834 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the Chancellungsgesetz 1996 (1931 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1833 of the Supplements): The Federal Law on the Promotion of Dangerous Goods Act, BGBl. I No. 145/1998, amended (GGGG-Novelle 1999) (1932 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e15987	I now call on points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Firlinger has been reported at word level. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16014	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the air accident investigation law in my contribution to the debate. The other areas of concern will then be dealt with by my colleagues in the political groups. Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, the air accident investigation law seems to be an unproblematic law. I was only surprised that there was an interruption of almost two months in the Committee, because it seems that there was not quite a consensus within the coalition on how to transpose this EU directive into a national law. It should be noted that, in the future, an investigation of serious incidents can also take place, i.e. circumstances that indicate that a serious accident under certain premise would have almost occurred, so the situation of the law not only depends on the events – for example, when there has been a serious accident – but also has a forward-looking component. In my view, positive – and generally agreed – is the fact that the withdrawal of the general licence for aircraft is now normized. If aircraft are airtight or noise limits do not exceed and are insured, an approval shall be granted. It was true, however, that on the day of the Committee's meeting, a large amendment was tabled which we could no longer study in time and which, for this understandable reason, we did not approve in committee. But now we will agree. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to take the opportunity to point out another source of danger, which may be underestimated too much. It is heard that in both Austrian airlines there is great dissatisfaction with pilots and other flying personnel because the working hours of the flying staff are basically not regulated, i.e. they are not sufficiently regulated by law. The only regulations that are voluntarily applied are the so-called Flight Operation Manual, an international regulatory, which, as I said, is based on a voluntary basis. There are, however, completely insufficient rules on overtime, on general working hours and so on. There have therefore been a number of complaints, and the termination or redundancies of 24 pilots should actually be thought. This is a potential source of danger, and you have to draw attention to it, because it can cause a relatively great deal to happen – and that then goes very quickly! For this reason, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16092	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Parnigoni has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16116	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already mentioned that this proposal, the air accident investigation law, is an adaptation to the EU directive. It is simply a question of creating a more efficient investigation process through an independent independent investigation body. At the same time, this law also constitutes procedural and administrative simplification, in the form of the absence of the administrative and cost-intensive authorisation procedure in Austria. It is important to mention that there will also be significant improvements for Austrian air sports. In the future, it will be possible to carry up to three people in air sports machinery, so that four people can fly and so-called self-costs can be demanded. A similar self-cost scheme is also available for hot air balloon rides and paragliding ladders. This change of law was demanded and supported by the Austrian Aero Club. This club represents at least 17 000 members and about 20 000 valid airline licence holders. I am very happy that, after several discussions, we have also achieved this scheme in the Civil Aviation Advisory Council. I would also like to stress that air sport is also important for Austrian tourism. For this day, there are mentions of the World Championships in Styria with participants from 12 nations, the Bad Waltersdorf Hot Air Balloon World Championships in Styria, where approximately 100,000 people are expected, as well as the Jet WM model flight in tentway, where about 30 nations will be at the start. I therefore believe that with this proposal we will decide on a non-interesting legal provision. On the occasion-trafficking law and on the hazardous goods transport law, my interlocutors will still make comments. However, I must make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The Social Democrats will give their approval to all three proposals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16190	The amendment has just been properly submitted, is also supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16215	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to comment briefly on the air accident investigation law, which is because this is about an EU legal adjustment, as Mr Parnigoni and Mr Firlinger have already said. At the time of the first meeting of the Committee on Transport, however, it would have been on the agenda, namely on 14. April 1999, can no longer be implemented in time, for already at that time Austria was in delay, but the representatives of the coalition parties have said: No, we have to talk about it for even longer, because, as Mr Parnigoni has said, there is a lot to discuss with the Aero Club in this regard. – And that's why the thing has been postponed. When it was discussed at the last meeting of the Committee on Transport, it was said that one had agreed, and everything was in butter. – Now, however, I had to find an e-mail indicating that the release of self-cost flights with aircraft up to 4 seats, especially those located in the area of hangers and paragliders, which exist in Austria, actually caused the death toll and therefore destroyed 200 seasonal jobs. Mr Parnigoni! In my view, therefore, the information of the coalition parties in the committee was not correct, which is why we found an adequate solution. We will now vote in favour of the air accident investigation law, because we are already in default with EU legislation in this area, but we will not stop voting on it until the next plenary session, because it is not possible to think about it again, because it does not make sense or purpose to give its approval to a postponed regulation in the committee today, without really doing what the coalition has promised. The second point, the Opportunity Act, is obviously just a little novel, and Mr Parnigoni has tabled another amendment today. More has not been achieved by this coalition, because the traffic of opportunity law should in fact be changed in its basic features. In the Committee, we have learned that a major innovation is in progress anyway. Therefore, I would just like to point out that, particularly after the introduction of our 0.5 permille regime, I am still proud that it has been adopted here in the House, it should make it easier for the host industry to offer its guests such services in the field of transport. This is currently very difficult because of the Opportunity Act, so I hope that a major innovation will bring further liberalisation. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point is the Risk Promotion Act, to which we Liberals will not agree, and not because we believe it is wrong to make a change which is not sufficiently determined from its content and where, for example, the last sentence of Paragraph 2(1) was. (a) by reference to a Directive of the European Union, which is to be read in the Official Journal No. L XXXX of xx. header 1999, page XX". And in the footnote it says: "The place of discovery in the Official Journal of the EC will only be known in the Federal Law. " Ladies and gentlemen! If this has had time to wait until now, I think it would be appropriate to wait until the find site has become clear – and not to decide a law in which, in truth, the content is not clear. Therefore, we will not give our consent to this amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16267	Mr Dr. Lukesch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16288	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Barmüller, I am really surprised now! The Liberal Forum, which constantly criticises the trade order which wants to abolish the trade order which repeatedly calls for the freedom of professional activities, now doubts whether it is necessary to deregulate air athletes in the context of these self-cost participation flights – in accordance with German and US models! [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Yes!]] Mr Barmüller! You either did not study these things or you did not understand them – that would be the second possibility – or you contradict a fundamental thesis of the Liberal Forum today! - It's written to you in the main book. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: I am always happy to take note of your criticism! It is particularly nice, but unfortunately very flat, it corresponds to your being!]] Mr Lukesch – and with him the ÖVP – is pleased that it has finally succeeded in creating a clarification that helps thousands of air sportsmen to maintain their hobby and to exercise it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must be clear to you, Mr Barmüller, that, because of the Austrian provisions, the maintenance of a pilot's certificate causes very, very high costs. It's just the boys, they're financially weaker air sportsmen who have the highest interest in this form of a guest's participation. And that's supposed to be settled now. It was not like several of the representatives you have quoted now saying that this was previously forbidden. . I have looked closely at the legal provisions of the Aviation Act, and I have come to believe that there has so far been a footnote that has completely changed the definition of a commercial activity without any legal basis for commercial law. In contrast, however, we have made sure that there is no spot in this area. There will be a need for a receipt, a two-year obligation to hold a certificate, so that the unauthorised commercial activity can be distinguished from the exercise of sports. I repeat: Thousands of air sportsmen, especially the young among them, will be grateful to us for this arrangement. And the commercials should also bear in mind that a guest who is taken away privately can also be infected by the enthusiasm of the dream of flying and, immediately thereafter, perhaps presents himself as a student to commercial flight schools, because he also wants to practice this sport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A number of things have already been said about the air accident investigation law. In particular, I welcome it because I myself was a victim of an air traffic disaster. I recall the crash of a Boeing over Bangkok in 1993, where about a quarter of our socio-economic and economic faculty of the University of Innsbruck left life, including my best assistant. So we should do everything we can to improve aviation safety preventively, even though air transport is the safest way in the world – that is known – at all. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What? Again? I believed that this was already so clear in the Committee.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a clarification as to the extent to which an aircraft holder can be used if there is a public interest in investigations. It is therefore not intended to open up here, as it were, an investigative activism at the expense of private aircraft owners, but to do what is necessary. In this sense, I announce the approval of our club to these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16419	Before I get wife Member Gabriela Moser, next speaker, speaking: We've counted that now. The amendment previously tabled seems to be only three signatures instead of five – or these are loud paraphrases. I assume that this will now be corrected immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We'll correct this right now!]] Please, Mrs Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16449	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is incredible how to formulate an agreement to such an essential law as the air accident investigation law. I can do this in three words: We're for it! To the Occasional Traffic Act: I join the criticism of my predecessor from the Liberals. The equivalency law should be extended, and the EU's adjustment should also be extended at a very late stage. To the Risk Promotion Act, my main point. There is very much criticism, not only of the criticism that the formulations were only taken with "XXXX" and include a great deal of discretion or references, but above all of criticism of the fact that the transport of dangerous goods in Austria is still very, very dangerous. Minister As a result of the accidents in the Tauerntunnel, one has expanded the ban on the weekends, just about what is happening in the transport of dangerous goods. Well, what's the difficulty now? – You can very probably order that from Saturday in the No longer allowed to drive at an early stage, but will always have problems with regard to control. The basic problem in the transport of dangerous goods is the specific control by the executive on-the-spot, by the Gendarmerie, partly also by the customs officials. In this context, I should like to point out that the executive has repeatedly referred to this problem, that it was only recently said – I quote – that: There is a lack of personnel and control sites. There is also too little infrastructural evidence that there are too few parking tracks for the control of dangerous goods, which is bitterly necessary. It must first and foremost be put in place, especially in a transport of dangerous goods law. That is why I repeat that our view of this current revision is as follows: It's too little, it's too inaccurate, it's too little comprehensive and goes by the main criticism points. There is an urgent need for greater human resources, an increase in human resources, and an infrastructural improvement should be made so that checks to the extent that they are necessary can actually be carried out. I would just like to point out now that the Minister of the Interior is always concerned that the control remains alone in the hands of the Gendarmerie. I believe that the control is so necessary that customs guard is very likely to be used, especially in view of the fact that its original responsibilities and activities have been reduced under the Schengen Agreement. For the reasons set out above, we will not give our consent to the Dangerous Goods Promotion Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16504	The request put forward previously by Mr Lukesch has been duly supported, is also submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Seidinger is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16528	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The air accident investigation law, the implementation of the EC Council Directive of November 1994, has already been discussed by my predecessors. I should like to make a few comments. In contrast to the legislation in force, the investigation of accidents is also extended to serious disturbances. This is more precisely defined in the template. The responsible for the investigation will be a separate air accident investigation body. In order to be able to satisfy the independence required by the Directive, the staff of the investigative body will be exempt from their duties. I think that is certainly an important point. The subject-matter of the investigation is the identification of the causes for preventing future accidents and disturbances. A statement about indebtedness and liability is not considered. Despite the principle of territoriality, international cooperation in the service of optimum use of resources is promoted. With regard to the withdrawal of the licence provided for in the amendment to the Aviation Act, I refer to the request made by the Transport Committee, 788 of the supplements, according to which, following the confirmation by Austria Control GesmbH on Austrian nationality, on airworthiness, the conformity of noise requirements and sufficient insurance, the aircraft may be used in flight. Such formal authorisation shall not apply. As discussed by my previous speakers, the possibility of carrying out self-cost-free flights will be opened up. Self-costs in this context are only those that occur on the specific flight and are calculated in proportion. A profit – and this must be highlighted – must not be achieved. In addition, we adapt the Risk Goods Act in our own novel to the international ADR regulations. In general, it is to be said: Dangerous goods belong to the railways. That is why I support EU-wide regulations that allow the transport of dangerous goods on long distances only on rail or on the ship. The entire transport chain is fully audited, and executive and fire brigade must be quickly informed about the potential. The passage of dangerous goods through road tunnels should be allowed only at certain times and under certain conditions. Finally, it is also about the workplace road, and the serious accident in the Tauerntunnel was ultimately caused by a truck driver who had been on the road for 16 hours, according to his own data. Although this is illegal, the lack of controls and repeated manipulations, as well as the dependency ratio of the handlebars from their companies, do not prevent compliance with driving and rest times. Better conditions for truck drivers are not only a social concern, but are also urgently needed to improve road safety. We will therefore call for stricter controls, stricter penalties for entrepreneurs and better training of truck drivers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16581	Mr Laber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16602	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to refer to the Risk Goods Promotion Act, to which it would not be much to say in itself, since it is an approximation which takes place every two years. However, if the documents are more carefully examined, I have noticed a lot, and I would also like to make this known here in Parliament. First of all, there was a decree of 26. It referred to Directive 99/47/EC and Directive 94/55/EC, as well as to the law adopted here today. That is to say, the level building of the legal order has been disregarded or broken here. One has already issued a decree before one even had the law. This is once again a typical breach of the rule of law, as it does not occur too rarely. As a result, I asked the whole question and examined it more closely, and I thought that the amendment tabled by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Kukacka also mentioned two directives, namely Commission Directive 99/47/EC and Commission Directive 99/47/EC of 21 December 1994 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. May 1999, which does not exist at all. – You heard right: There is no such thing as these directives! The fact is that there is a cover sheet issued by the Council of the European Commission of 21 December 1990. In May, there are two directives which are linked and which expressly state: Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Mr Parnigoni! In the event of a demand in the Ministry of Transport and also in Brussels, we consider the answer: We just used the date. That means – and I would repeat this once again – that there is no basis for the content of this law, namely the directives of the Commission mentioned in the corresponding amendment. Today, we are adopting a law that has a directive on the content that does not exist. – This is a very funny process, and I really want to doubt whether this is in line with the rule of law of Austria at all. The whole thing still bears the signature: Section head Dr. Kafka. What does that do now? – In Austria, there are about 450 executive officials who have been trained specifically for the field of dangerous goods transport law, but are unemployed due to this decree until the law is signed. – Nobody knows! Any announcement made in the control under the Risk Promotion Act cannot be implemented because the relevant law has not yet been adopted or announced. That means that the state escapes millions of amounts. But there are not only this one case, but there are still several such ones. For example, there is also a decree from the Ministry of Transport concerning the Risk Goods Promotion Act, which does not allow the control of bitumen, walzasphalt, cast asphalt and other hot products, because it states that "infringements until the entry into force of the Risk Promotion Act and the release of a new act cannot be avoided". I was very interested in this, so I looked at the contracts. In all 34 Member States of the ADR, this Regulation exists in conjunction with the Dangerous Goods Promotion Act, but only in Austria, it has not been controlled a transport class for more than two years because it was prohibited by decree against the law. This Decision shall also bear the signature: Section head Dr. Kafka. These are things that need to be clarified. It's a shame that I don't have enough time to get closer to it. We will, of course, take further steps, because it can and must not be done in a ministry against the legal provisions. We'll take a closer look at that! Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The explanations will be made by my colleague Dr. Preisinger. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16679	The motion for a resolution just read has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Wallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16704	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal with the Risk Goods Promotion Act, which essentially refers to the appropriate sites of the international agreements. After this sad incident in Austria and previously in France, it is clear to me that the transport of dangerous goods by truck is always a major risk and that accidents are not completely excluded from the strictest legal measures. I think that policy must, above all, prevent the transport of dangerous goods on the road as far as possible and, on the other hand, take all necessary precautions in the field of prevention of such accidents, but also in the event of an accident. I mean, the most sensible measure is to force as much of the truck traffic as possible from the road to the rail. One only needs to look at the trend of truck traffic in Europe, then one immediately realizes that there is an urgent need to rethink in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The volume of freight transport in Europe is currently around 1.6 billion tonnes, of which three quarters – I emphasize: three quarters! – go to the street. The transit crossing the Alps has risen by 150 percent since 1980 alone, and all forecasts indicate that in the next ten years there will be a doubling of the East-West transit. All these figures suggest that, if this transit traffic increases in the way I have described it will lead to even more accidents on our roads and, of course, even more accidents in the field of dangerous goods. That is why it is necessary – and that has already been said by some of my previous speakers, and this is also a line which the Socialists have been following in this House for a long time – for transport to become even more attractive on the rails, and finally it is necessary to put in place legislative measures with which the transport of goods by truck is decisively expensive. That is why I can stand for the introduction of truck-road pricing once again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One of the consequences of the Tauerntunnel accident is certainly the construction of second tunnel tubes, in this case in the Tauerntunnel. However, it is also a gratifying report that, at the initiative of the Transport Country Council, Ressel is now given green light to the Plabusch Tunnel, which is practically under the capital of Graz. I would also like to point out in this connection that there are many other projects. As a chief, I would like to say: You should not forget the Gleinalm Tunnel as an important North-South connection! In this already last year, unfortunately, there was the fire of a bus, which, thanks to the use of the local firearms, was more or less glamorous and could be overcome. Again: The truck transport must be forced on the rails, even if there is also an attractive railway line parallel to the road. The Ordinance on Risk Goods of Ministers One with all the measures that are known is to be welcomed. There are exceptions. I hope that the measures mentioned in this Regulation will not again be blocked by representatives of the EIA and, above all, by the FPÖ in the countries. I am thinking in this context of Mr Ing's statement. Reichhold: He said that the monitoring of the transport of dangerous goods was not necessary. ==References== This year, in turn, there was a positive signal from transport councillor Ressel from Styria, who may also be responding to the concern expressed by the speaker of the Greens: In Styria, taxis will accompany the transport of dangerous goods through the tunnels. This avoids long waiting times, and this is also a positive signal to the economy. I conclude by saying that we have already made a good deal of progress in improving safety, but that there is still much to be done so that terrible accidents, as we all had to experience, do not repeat.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16762	Mrs Preisinger is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16780	Mr President. Mr. Minister, who is not here right now! Ladies and gentlemen! The commercial transport of persons in taxis is part of the Chance Traffic Act, which is the subject of the motion for a resolution. Through the non-hazardous liberalisation, more and more people acquire the taxi concession. As a result, there is almost a sponge of concessions. In the past, however, there was a self-restriction. More than 7 000 taxi concessions are currently awarded in Vienna, of which about 4,400 currently hold a concession. In Vienna in particular, the fact that the quality remains partly on the track is always criticized. Many taxi drivers really lack language and local knowledge. Unfortunately, it is often recognized by God that taxi drivers really have only a thin knowledge of the city map. It is therefore urgent to place more emphasis on practical training in training. Taxis cannot be compared with other trades. There is, among other things, a duty to transport and to prepare. This does not give rise to the mechanisms of the free economy. Through a variety of taxi licenses granted, i.e. by increasing the number of taxi drivers, the possibility of merit for the individual taxi drivers will be more and more limited. And less merit also means that the high quality level of taxis cannot be kept. In Vienna, 10 to 15 percent of taxis are already experiencing serious security failures. This could mean an increased risk of accident for each passenger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To do this, I would like to make a little detour to Switzerland: It looks similar in Switzerland, but there have been significant improvements. In Zurich, it has become clear that it is urgently necessary to limit the number of taxi concessions increased by liberalisation. So that's where you've already done that. On the other hand, it doesn't look so good with us. In Switzerland, one wants to maintain the high standard on which one places great importance, which is known. I mean, we also need more quality and quality in Austria. I think we need less quantity, but more quality, because this only leads to an economic increase and an increased acceptance in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e16827	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, and we are voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1930 of the supplements. Hiezu Members Parnigoni, Dr. Lukesch and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I § 15. As only this one amendment was tabled, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, taking account of this amendment. This draft law contains constitutional provisions. I therefore note that the present quorum provided for by the Constitution exists. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Parnigoni, Mr Lukesch and Mr Comrades. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The consent shall be unanimous. There is therefore a lack of evidence that the two-thirds majority provided for by the Constitution are present. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would also ask for a similar sign. – This sign also takes place unilaterally. I notice: The draft was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Brigitte Povysil and others on regulated working hours for flying staff. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1834 of the supplements. Mr Parnigoni, Mr Mag. Kukacka and comrades submitted an additional or amendment request to insert a new Z 1 § 11 para. 3 and 4 as well as a necessary amendment to the terms of reference. Since there is only one supplementary or amendment request, we shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template in 1834, taking into account the supplementary or amendment request. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The sign is given unilaterally, so the draft law is adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would also like to give the draft law a third reading, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done once again in a single light. I notice: The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Reinhard Firlinger and comrades on improved training of taxi drivers. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. Finally, we reach the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1932 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would also ask for a similar sign. – This too finds the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 1092/A by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni, Mr Georg Schwarzenberger and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Transport of Animals on the Road (TGST) and the Driving Licence Act and the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 (1933 of Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning the prohibition of the transport of calves up to the age of 21 days (1934 of the supplements) 13. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the petition (PET-19) on "The Austrian Animal Transport Act must remain!", presented by Member MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic (1935 of the supplements) 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (BI-14) on "Improvement of the implementation of animal transport legislation" (1936 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17012	I now call on points 11 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting, so that we can go into the debate at once. As the first speaker, Mr Stefan Salzl is speaking, and I would ask him to speak on behalf of the speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I passed today in the early morning on my way to Parliament by a huge poster stand, from which until a few days ago Mrs Stenzel smiled down. Now there is a huge new white poster, on which reads: "Lug den, Lucht hier – Hauptsach', g’winnen Hamma! Your SPÖ." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that the same statement would also fit the EIA, it is just too symptomatic for dealing with and understanding between these two political groups. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But he is just as symptomatic for dealing with this government with the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17061	Excuse me, Mr. Deputies. . I would like to point out that the use of mobile phones in the meeting room is not permitted. I would ask you to pay attention to this! Thank you. Please continue, deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17079	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years, especially since EU accession, efforts have been made to bring the population to light, as have animal welfare and animal transport. I would like to remind you briefly because the ÖVP apparently does not know it anymore. Before joining the EU, we liberals also called for homework in this area. We have already mentioned the need for extensive regulations, namely for all animal transport. We have pointed out that not only the transport of animals on the road, but also those on the rails, on water and in the air must be regulated. Above all, however, we pointed out at the time that these arrangements would have to be further included in the negotiations with the EU, because they would only exist then. That was dissociated by the government at the time. The government has said: Our animal transport law will of course keep. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not only we liberals, but also many experts have expressed this opinion, such as President Apel of the German Animal Protection Association, who at the time also said on the Animal Transport Act Street that this would be a mogel pack and the Federal Government would dissuade people if they said that this animal transport law could be maintained even after accession to the EU. It warned against the fact that in the EU only economic interests and the free movement of goods are included and that the EU would therefore not accept the Austrian restrictions and eliminate the animal transport law street. Ladies and gentlemen! But how did the then responsible, namely the climate of transport, react? At an animal welfare convention, of course, shortly before national elections, he has personally explained with smiles of radiation that the liberal claims are wrong, that it is unknowing and that, moreover, he, climate, will ensure that the Austrian animal transport law street remains and will not be eroded. Meanwhile, the Federal Chancellor's climate has become out of the Minister for Transport, and he who has expected him to remember his promise and to comply with it has been disappointed. The EU Presidency was used by climate and co for extensive celebrations, but not to improve the situation of animal welfare and animal transport within the EU! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The result is that, unfortunately, God has become a reality of our fears and that the non-EU conformity of our animal transport law has removed this from the European Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! What about climates now? This example shows once again what is to be kept by the promises of this Federal Government, especially before elections! For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For animal welfare reasons, we will now agree to this emergency repair of the animal transport law in order to prevent "black sheep" from continuing to do big business among the carriers with animal suffering. At the same time, however, we call for a general re-regulation of animal transport, from the point of view of comprehensive animal welfare. We liberals are of the opinion: Animal welfare must not be sacrificed to the business community!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17178	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17200	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Salzl, you're going to be rehearsing. But we are not far apart in content, we sometimes meet, there are very similarities. I would like to make a few comments on the problem. – Our animal transport law for slaughter is the strictest in Europe and, far beyond, perhaps even in the whole world; I cannot judge it so accurately. The period of transport is limited to six hours or 130 kilometres on the motorway, and the nearest domestic slaughterhouse has to be run in order to avoid animal suffering. Although the EU Directive includes a higher transport time for the journey duration, normally eight hours and special vehicles with appropriate equipment for certain animal species for up to 24 hours. This regulation – and this must be said – not only concerns slaughter animal transports, but also live animal transports, such as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats and single-bred animals. That means that the regulation is almost stricter than in Austria. You have to see that too. The problem was that a German driver was punished because he had been on the road for more than six hours with his slaughter animal transport. In concrete terms, he had been on the road in Austria for 23 hours. He appealed to the Administrative Court in Carinthia and filed further complaints. The Administrative Court requested a preliminary ruling from the ECJ, and this preliminary ruling states that the protection of animal health can also be achieved by less incisive measures than by shortening the time of transport, that our national law restricts the free movement of goods and that therefore the abolition is necessary. - So far, so bad. Since a contradiction between Community law and national law must be interpreted in accordance with Community law, Austria needed action, namely the obligation to amend legislation. We therefore move in the case of Community transport infringements in the right-wing area. In our national transport law, there is no criminal provision for breaking the directive, because it is in line with the national situation. With this motion for a law, in which I had the impression that all five parties were in favour, this manko will be remedied. This is the first formal step, but the next one will follow. We have never said that this is already the absolutely great and definitive law. On the one hand, a draft adapted EU-compliant animal transport law will follow, which meets a high standard of animal welfare. – Mr Dr. Salzl, I ask you to give me your attention! We want such a law, and Mr. Minister One of the Committees has also announced that negotiations have been started at ministerial and EU level. Minister Mr Molterer and Mr Molterer have already made themselves strong in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: An infringement procedure has been under way since 1997!]] I also believe that, in conformity with you, Mr Salzl, we must also examine existing rules for their feasibility, because there are obvious and clear legal uncertainties. We'll have talks with executives and we'll get to the bottom of this. Improvements will certainly be possible, and you will probably agree! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Salzl.]] Dr. Salzl! I would also like to say, on this occasion, that a Federal Animal Protection Act would also be helpful in this regard, because animal torture is still regulated differently in the countries. No one will dispute that animal transports are to be rejected from the animal protection point of view, in this respect we are going to be in conformity. But as long as the promotion of live animals transport remains stable and as long as transport costs so little on the road, there will be animal shifts across Europe. That is why we must tackle the evil at the root, namely in the promotions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17241	Mrs Klara Motter has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17260	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's forced amendment to the animal transport law, which leaves the maximum transport time of six hours, shows that there are serious failures both at Austrian and European level. Austria, when the EU directives were discussed in 1995, had already put too little pressure on the EU's main committee, despite the fact that the Austrian legislation on the duration of transport could also be adopted at European level. I am convinced that, with more commitment, the achievement of derogations for Austria with regard to the maintenance of its rules would have been quite possible, especially since the Treaty of Amsterdam has now explicitly provided for the possibility of maintaining higher environmental standards – and these are these. I would also like to point out that an even greater problem than the duration of transport is the poor equipment of transport trucks, especially from the East. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] These are not equipped with sufficient ventilation, drinking and feeding equipment. In this respect, there is a need for action, and on this the Ministers of State should work towards one and the other if they are to make amendments to the directives. The European judgment, which forces us to amend our animal transport law, also points out, above all, that there is the only chance to end animal torture in the abolition of subsidies for live transport and the increased promotion of cold meat transport. This must be done. In this respect, I agree with Mrs Parfuss, who unfortunately is not here again, no more than with the previous law. I am sorry because I would like to say something good to her, as I would have liked to criticize her earlier. Unfortunately, this is not an issue for Commissioner Fischler. He goes a bad way by increasing the so-called export refunds on live transports by 8 percent last autumn. Ladies and gentlemen! The subsidy of 10 000 s per driver of life is a lucrative business for exporters! I conclude from all this that the EU is not yet a functioning political community, but just an economic community. As correct and meaningful as the promotion of free movement of goods is, it is strange that this principle is applied precisely to the transport of live animals. First of all, feeling living beings that are not goods are affected, and secondly, these animal transport directives and laws need to be adopted only because the number of animal transports has increased as a result of subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen! If we today have to adopt the EU directives that are in force for us – I say consciously – then I hope at least that they will be monitored more strictly. In the past, the Austrian law with the six-hour regulation was largely a so-called paper law. I personally believe in the animal protectionists and the institutions who have kept this in mind for us over and over again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17315	Mr Schwarzenberger has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's proposal for an initiative for the Animal Transport Law Street concerns the criminal provisions adapted to the EU directives. I would like to suggest that the Austrian Animal Transport Law Street, for example, is not amended in relation to the six-hour restriction on intra-Austrian transport. This point will continue to be valid, as will the restriction to 130 kilometres on national or federal roads or to 260 kilometres on motorways or the destination for the nearest slaughterhouse. In Austria we can find out with these regulations, because the Vienna slaughterhouse St. Marx, which had no catchment area in the area, has been left out and where cattle and pig farms are located, there are plenty of slaughterhouses in the surrounding area. However, what is re-regulating this law is the adaptation of criminal provisions to the EU directives, with regard to the transit of foreign freighters passing through Austria. In this respect, the EU directives apply, and our criminal provisions are now being adapted to these EU directives. In the past, we have repeatedly pointed out – and the European Court of Justice has rightly given us this point – that our animal transport law is not in accordance with these provisions and cannot be implemented for this reason. Federal Minister However, one has always rejected our submissions by stating that it is very feasible and that it is in accordance with EU directives. Now it can be rehabilitated. But there is also an Article II in this Animal Transport Act, and I am particularly glad that we can regulate this area today. Because it causes a much more gentle animal transport if, for example, the animals can be delivered for auctions, horse-riding events or exhibitions with passenger cars trailers. The problem so far was that the maximum permissible total weight of 3 500 kilograms for cars and trailers was usually exceeded and for this reason transport by B- or F-car was not possible. Nevertheless, many farmers have transported their animals with such vehicles. Unfortunately, in recent times, it has increasingly occurred that in the case of auctions, the farmers were then punished in a row. I have received information that, for example, in Maishofen, fines have been abolished to a total of 50 000 to 100 000 S. Farmers have only tried to transport the animals as gently as possible, and they have been punished for that. These are mainly older farmers, who, although the B- and F-leading certificate and thus the examination of the entire trailer regulations have not yet been allowed to drive with these passenger cars. I am glad that we are now solving this problem by allowing anyone who has at least three years of B and F leadership and the appropriate practice to carry out a simple practical examination for this purpose. You don't need to repeat the computer test for technology and the whole law, but just take a simple practical test to get the F-F-Führerschein passed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that this regulation has been made possible because it will enable us to make an important contribution to a much more gentle implementation of animal transport. Because if an animal is standing individually in a passenger car trailer, it is usually hardly connected to animal torture, and the animals have already become accustomed to loading and unloading. It is also agreed on the request made by Mr Petrovic that calves should not be transported on the road until 21 days of age, on the grounds that Austrian calves had been delivered to France in the past. Although this claim has not been proved, it has been set up over and over again. I would like to point out: In the meantime, this request has long been obsolete. The so-called Herod premium is no longer included in Agenda 2000, but a general calf mast premium for which the calf must be at least one month old, may be at least seven months old and have a maximum slaughter weight of 160 kilograms. That's why these transports are going to fall away anyway. When it was presented that: France wants to continue this action, but with national resources, then I would like to say: The French Government will not be so stupid in view of the current system of cattle identification – according to which each calf is marked within seven days and which must also be reported to the central body, the AMA – to transport such calves to France and finance them by purely national means! EU funds are no longer available because this action has been discontinued by the EU. The practice that French devalue foreign calves in this way will certainly belong to the past – if such practices have ever occurred in France. I would like to point out another area: There are many farmers whose pastures lie 20, 30 or 40 kilometers from the farm. If there is a cow there in the autumn and the calf is not supposed to be delivered home for three weeks, it would be a shock! Or if the calf were then driven home on foot, it would be an animal torture, and for these reasons this request should be rejected. It has already been rejected in the Committee and is therefore expected to be rejected in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17408	Mrs Dr. Moser. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17426	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of animal transport has a long history and, unfortunately, it is also a difficult future. It is about EU subsidies for animal transport, subsidies that continue to be granted, and this, of course, provides an incentive to transport live animals. Although there was already a resolution on this subject in the European Parliament in October 1997 by a large majority in order to reach the end of these subsidies. In the end, however, it did not succeed. There is still this processing premium, the so-called Herod premium. We call for the final contribution to this Herod premium and therefore make a number of requests, first of all a motion for a resolution aimed at increasing the criminal framework, so that it becomes totally unattractive for the individual carriers to carry live animals to a greater extent. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is our motion for a resolution, which is also on the agenda for the vote. We also want the proposed criminal framework to be extended. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the same way, we would like to make an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni, Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Perfuss, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Ollinger: (demonstrative applause giving) That deserves an intermediate applause!]] Thank you. – In addition, we have another amendment to the said initiative proposal, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is necessary in order to evaluate the animal transport law street with a view to its effectiveness. It is then necessary to have an official reporting obligation. Finally, I propose an amendment to the proposed proposal for an initiative aimed at defining more precisely the threat. For there is a danger of exceeding the total duration of transport, and this is not precisely regulated in the current law. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this motion for a resolution and these amendments, we have a goal: We want the animals no longer to suffer, especially during transport!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17626	The five applications just read are all properly submitted, duly supported and under negotiation. Mr Sigl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17647	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Amendment 1092/A contains new provisions to which I would like to raise some points. It should be noted, for example, that Article II of the application will bring these essential reliefs for animal transport in the agricultural sector. Since Mr Schwarzenberger has already referred in detail to this change in the right of steering, I am saving myself a repetition for time. This new regulation will allow for a faster implementation of animal transport in the agricultural sector in the future, thus reducing the stress of animals to be transported. But not only is this the benefits of the new regulation. In my opinion, the changes also have a decisive influence on the liquids of road transport. This will help to reduce the risk of accidents caused by the risk of overcrowding of road users. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Almost two years ago, we decided here in the House after long and hard debates the 0.5-promille limit on road transport. The great participation of the population in this discussion and the tireless use of a number of groups of initiatives have enabled us to enforce the reduction of the limit on promills. Although some stakeholders considered the legal change in alcohol at the tax to be too restrictive, I could not join this view on grounds of reason at the time and today. For me, the principle still applies: Let him that rideth not drink, and let him that hath drunk not go. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, the attitude towards alcohol at the tax is not only reasonable, but also with figures and facts. For example, during the last Pentecostal holidays, which traditionally resulted in increased numbers of road users, fewer traffic accidents and around 6 percent less ads due to alcoholization than in the previous year, although the executive performed much more alcotests than in the years before. The safety package, consisting of increased traffic monitoring, information and legal regulations, takes action – quite contrary to what was prophesied by many lobbyists. That is why I also support the way. III of this motion by my Social Democratic colleague, Mr Parnigoni, which includes an extended and more restrictive provision for alcoholic car drivers. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that the provisions contained in Amendment 1092/A will bring us more safety in road transport, but it must continue to be our task in the future to analyse and minimise the risk factors in road transport. Demands such as "rails instead of traffic blinds" or the immediate expansion of public transport are not just words, but are in line with the needs of our fast times. That is why I would like to give my consent to this request, and I would ask you to join him as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17693	Mr Wenitsch has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17715	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger! You are once again trying to speak up a dirty thing, but I believe that you will not succeed! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that hundreds of thousands of animals under untold torment and unimaginable suffering are transported daily across and across Europe and the rest of the world so that promotions and profits can be achieved. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Up to 10 percent of all transported animals end up during transportation due to stress, hunger and thirst, or they are even trampled to death by their species if they are already exhausted on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen! We have set up here in the House a gourmet commission which is concerned about the physical well-being of Members. But when it comes to animal suffering, I miss this commitment with you all! I don't quite understand: For us we need a gourmet commission, but these animals that have to suffer daily pains, obviously nobody cares here in this House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really ask you, ladies and gentlemen: How deep does a person have to sink in order to keep on watching such misery?- Oh, my God! Mr Sigl! They also supported Mr Schwarzenberger's contribution to the debate. I have to ask you: Aren't you all hurting? Don't you know this misery? Have you not seen in many television documentations and image documentations what is happening in Europe and the rest of the world in this regard? Do you not think that one should, on the other hand, be really committed to doing so?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] – Everything else is uninteresting, colleague Schwarzenberger. This animal suffering is abolished! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister or Mrs Minister! You, Mrs Minister, cannot do this in this case, because it concerns your colleagues, who unfortunately are not here. But I also wonder where colleague One was during the Austrian EU Presidency. Why did you not take care, ladies and gentlemen, of the government to implement the Austrian animal transport law throughout Europe instead of vice versa? I'm wondering. Where was the Austrian Federal Government's commitment here? Why didn't you put into play the media effect that you had undisputed during the Council Presidency, but apparently only used personally for yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the government to get into the picture? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: As the bad guy thinks he is!]] Why Have You did not see this opportunity to draw attention to animal suffering or to measures against this animal suffering once in Europe and worldwide? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has not learned anything from its failure in the accession negotiations with the European Union and has continued to watch this unimaginable animal suffering during the Presidency of the Council, given that one of your predecessors, namely the predecessor of Minister One – I am not talking about you, Mrs Minister – as a former Minister of Transport, that is, our current Federal Chancellor climate, which has led the accession negotiations for this transit treaty and so on, should already have "turned off" at that time. He failed at the time! This failure, which unfortunately occurred at the time of God, must now come together in this House – and I really ask all colleagues, no matter what group, to repair once again to protect our animals! Let me tell you once again, ladies and gentlemen: If we still have some honor and some compassion for these disgraced creatures, then as the Austrian National Council, we have the obligation to make every effort to stop this worldwide animal transport at last, and to say: [[Complaints with the liberals]] We want to change something for our animals! Ladies and gentlemen! It will be of little use if perhaps the Federal Chancellor presents himself to the newspapers with his house- or farm dog in a media-active way and thus announces to the people: Look what an animal friend I am! Ladies and gentlemen! This is about untold suffering, and we have to fight it. It benefits – I say it again – nothing, with a farm dog, as much as one likes to have it – I also love pets; I also have a dog – to present with a domestic dog and to play the big animal protector in front of the public. [[Abg. Steibl: House dog and farm dog!]] That's just not enough! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the obligation to work with all our forces in the EU to stop this animal suffering.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17796	Mrs Binder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17818	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been mentioned, changes in the federal law on the transport of animals on the road are necessary due to a ECJ judgment. The aim of these changes is to be able to punish at least overruns of fixed transport times at national level, and therefore appropriate criminal provisions in the Animal Transport Act are necessary. If this change were not to take place, animal transport through Austria could continue to take place under any provisions on permitted transport times, without the driver or the entrepreneurs being able to be interested in it. Furthermore, this request also contains Article II – I think that is a concession to the farmers – with an exception, which deals exclusively with transport in the near area and, above all, with a faster and more gentle transport of animals, which can be carried out not only with tractors but also with trailers. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted that the Austrian animal transport law contains high and strict standards. I am right to say to my previous speaker that all the efforts of the Minister are aimed at ensuring that these standards are incorporated and enforced in EU law. Only: Democracy is now made up of different opinions and different consents, and it is therefore important to work on them. For us Social Democrats, animal welfare is a priority, and improvements continue to be made. I also think that animal transport can not only reach the time frame, but also, above all, the nature of the means of transport and many other criteria. That is why we also welcome the prospect of further extension of the Animal Transport Act. I think Mrs Moser's proposals will be included in them in the interests of the protection of animals. For living beings cannot be treated in the same way as any other commodity.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17861	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17882	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make a few remarks on the comments that Mr Schwarzenberger made earlier from the speaker's desk. Mr Schwarzenberger! We are of course also in favour of the new regulations in the driving licence area, but one thing I would like to write to you in the main book: Not every transport with a car trailer is absolutely more animal-friendly, if not the car trailer is suitable for this. In the future, I would ask you to take into account what the EU has already done and what is already planned at EU level, namely to ensure that the means of transport are properly equipped and not just to take into account the driver's ability as such. Mr Schwarzenberger! I also believe that no one here in the House will regret the abolition of the Herod Prize. Two things should be added, however, as regards the transport of calves in the first three weeks of life. On the one hand, they have brought together the problem of farming and animal transport to the home, for example in the event of bad weather and similar things. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that some of these animal transports, which are carried out at an early age, should also be considered critically, because they prove that animal diseases are transported from one farm to another and therefore used by some "black sheep" in the industry precisely this time limit for the transport of calves, especially in the case of obscene new breeds, such as paratuberculosis and other diseases throughout Austria. This is a point which is not directly related to animal transport, but which should be related to the 21-day-frist and Mrs Petrovic's request in a comprehensive debate. It cannot be disputed that the present draft and the Austrian regulations, in so far as they concern domestic transport, also receive the consent of our liberals in this form. But we liberties have never overlooked that the animal transport law street alone is not comprehensive enough for us and that animal transport by flight or ship is urgently needed in Europe. In these areas too, we believe that the maladministrations should finally be stopped. If you think that the 240 kilometres and 130 kilometres in Austria, which are still in force, are to be found, I also believe, Mr Schwarzenberger, that there should be some reflections on what once existed in the Vienna slaughterhouse, namely the appropriate slaughter facilities in Austria also for the religious communities of Islam and those of the Mosaic faith. This would then be unnecessary, as in Sweden, for both religious communities the animal transport of slaughter cattle and slaughter animals, and also the catastrophic transport of ships would no longer be necessary. This would actually be a command of the hour. Efforts in this direction were, however, always ignored by the Austrians. However, I do not think that the last word has yet been spoken, but rather that the creation of carcasses in Austria would be an appropriate sign for these two communities to significantly limit animal suffering and animal transport. The Libya transports, for example, and especially the loading methods in Genoa, in the EU country of Italy, are indeed an example and a criticism point. I therefore believe that we have not completed this issue today, that we have taken a step forward, but that a comprehensive regulation is still in place. I hope that, and this is especially true of the Austrian ministers responsible, one will finally take action at European level, because the time period needed to deal with this problem has been too long for me and for many animal protectionists.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e17935	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt in 1933 of the supplements. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled additional proposals. We shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposals mentioned and, finally, on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a point 1 in Art. I as regards the criminal framework provided for in § 16 and the necessary number. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of new paragraphs 1 and 2 in Art. I concerning § 16 para. 7 and 8 as well as the necessary number. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled a further supplementary request to insert new points 1 and 2 in Art. I concerning § 13 para. 2 as well as the necessary number. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of point 2 in Art. I concerning § 17 and the necessary number. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt, now in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to take action to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is done unanimously, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft law a third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done in a single light. I notice: The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stefan Salzl and comrades on the improvement of animal transport conditions. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a European agreement on the enforcement of administrative penalties for breach of animal transport regulations. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of his report in 1934. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1935. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of his report in 1936. If you would also like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. This report has been taken note of. 15. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Thomas Barmüller and comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on driving licence (Führerscheingesetz – FSG 1997), BGBl. I No. 120/1997, as amended by BGBl. I No. 2/1998, amended (1937 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Thomas Barmüller and comrades concerning the introduction of a credit card (1938 of the supplements) 17. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution 933/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser and Comrades on the rapid introduction of the driver's licence (1939) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Wolfgang Nußbaumer and Comrades concerning the amendment of the Vienna Convention on Road Transport in order to create internationally binding strict exhaust legislation (1940 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18133	I now call on points 15 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18163	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the advanced hour, I will be limited to a basic statement on the point leader's license – well, it has already been debated quite a lot, but let us limit this, I do not have so much time, Mrs Colleague, to discuss it with you now: [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: 9 o'clock in the evening is a "prepared hour"?]] For the liberals, the introduction of a point driver's license is not questionable, whether this model is "point driver's license" or "good-point driver's license" or "minus point driver's license" or whatever, because in the previous discussion on this subject, the debate has failed to be very emotional, and the reasons for this are also clearly recognizable. [[Complaints with the liberals]] On the left half of the empire – especially the greens, the liberals and parts of the SPÖ – the motivation is clear: You want to take one step at a time to make the car drive mediocre and suffer. That's why you're very creative inventing... [[Abg. Parnigoni:... what the SPÖ does!]] I said: In parts of SPÖ, one is very inventive when it comes to taking one step after another, just to keep the drivers on the gangband. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are very negative experiences with the Flensburger model. I just want to mention one of these: The question of "glass" people has not yet been brought into the discussion at all. There are many concerns of German constitutional lawyers who say that it cannot be ruled out that in someone who once had a trial due to a criminal offence and was registered in the Karti in Flensburg, there are disadvantages in ongoing disputes against justice. There are many warning voices. Such voices are going to take place in Austria. Second point: I believe that it is only necessary to implement the existing laws properly and properly, and then every discussion is unnecessary about the need for a point-leader's license.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18221	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18243	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of point guide number a few comments: The fact is that this leader's license is not an Austrian invention, but that it is already a reality in various other countries, such as France, Germany, the United Kingdom or Canada, and that there are already efficiency studies in these countries that reveal the impact and experience. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, a working group was set up in the Ministry of Transport, which had the task of developing a model. The fact is that according to an IMAS survey carried out in 1998, 61 percent of the Austrians surveyed are for the introduction of the point leader's license. The fact is, however, that there was and is the wide variety of opinions and opinions on the proposals drawn up. However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a point leader's license will only be feasible in the event of a high acceptance by all stakeholders and all drivers. That is why it is necessary to find a broad consensus, and that is above all the objective of the Minister for Transport. In this context, I would like to support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Mag. Kukacka on the introduction of the point driver's licence. [[Call out to the liberals: there's nothing in there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every day, devastating accidents that result in tragic fates and much suffering – we are faced with it – and these accidents are mainly caused by road traffic. Therefore, any action that reduces accidents should be welcomed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For those groups that do not comply with traffic rules and for which road transport is subject to the law of the stronger, it is essential to have consequences. I would like to point out that the introduction of the point driver's licence in specialist circles is seen as a contribution to raising road safety, which can reduce the number of accidents and fatalities by up to 8 per cent. International experience shows essentially that the overall preventive effect is far greater than criminal measures alone and that the effect of a point entry requires two thirds of the drivers concerned to change their behaviour after a first point entry. That is exactly what the aim is. It is a solution, which represents a so-called probation system, provides a suitable tool for increasing road safety and, above all, ensures more protection for all road users. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this will be achieved with a suitable model of the point leader's license and that this must also be in all our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18281	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18303	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the 857/A request, which concerns the fact that an opinion drawn up by a doctor, registered in the local scope of the authority, is to be submitted to the doctor's list in order to obtain certain driving licences. We do not think it is necessary to see why a doctor from the local field of activity of the authority in which one has to present this phenomenon, but we believe that it would be sufficient to obtain this opinion from a doctor who is registered in the doctor's list, regardless of the local scope of action of an authority of that doctor. Finally, it is about the content of this medical certificate and less about the doctor living at the door with the authority. However, this proposal for a driving licence law has not, unfortunately, found the approval of the government groups, nor the consent of the liberals, which we very much regret, because it is a measure which means liberalisation in the economic field, and it is not to be seen why such difficulties are created for inaccurate reasons. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have also had a section 27 proposal in committee on which there must be liberalisation in the field of driving schools. Mr Kukacka, too, knows, of course, that, together with Mr Firlinger, when it comes to road safety, he has always been one of the brakers, and that, on the other hand, when it comes to brake the lawns, he is more on the pedal. [[Unrest with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] We therefore believe that there is still a lot to be done in this area. The increasing number of accidents shows that transport safety in Austria is failing again. We believe, however, that steps in the area of the liberalisation of driving schools could lead to the cost of training for driving students and can therefore also be improved, because they can then take about more hours. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's why we got 30. June spoken, my Ladies and gentlemen, because this is something that Mr Bundeskanzler Klima has promised over two years ago, namely when he took office as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but which has remained guilty of the great coalition to this day. As we know of the persistent interests in this area, we are also presenting other points which belong to the motion for a resolution. This government template we want it to be up to 30. It should include, in particular, that any natural and legal person at any Austrian location can operate a driving school, that is, in the context of the operation of a driving school, driving school teachers and driving instructors can be trained and further trained and that this type of secondary school instructors and driving instructors will be issued an ID card – at present the authority must do so, it must not be made by the school itself – and that then this ID and the valid driving licence will already be sufficient to be able to work as driving school instructors in or as driving instructors. This is currently overly bureaucratic – the identity card must be issued by the authority, the exhibition must be requested by the driving school – and in fact it serves to ensure that driving instructors and driving school teachers cannot take a foothold on the labour market, but are always dependent on the driving schools. They are as much tied to the school as they used to be to the farmers, and that is what we want to put off liberals, because we think this is an entirely inadequate means. The motion for a resolution tabled by the government parties to the point leader's license, which states that the work on the score driver's licence should continue within the framework of the expert group and that a draft law, which was agreed among all the groups involved, should be sent to the National Council at once, is in reality a reference proposal, since no progress has been made by the government parties in the field of point-leader's license. The Liberals have proposed a model of credit card and have tabled a resolution to this effect, which would in particular ensure that people's own initiative is encouraged to do something for their transport safety and increased road safety before anything happens. The government proposal, which is a bad-point driver's license, only takes effect when something has happened. Here we choose a different way. I do not share the view of honourable Member Firlinger, who believes that every point-leader model is so 'for the fish'. The fact is that the point driver's license model, in particular, can stop the excess speeds and the lack of distance behaviour which are currently the primary causes of accidents in Austria. This would mean an increase in road safety. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we insist that we get a point leader's license, because then we have the opportunity to save 150 people's lives every year on Austria's streets. That Mr Firlinger and Mr Kukacka do not wish to support us in this, we will probably have to take note of it. ==References====External links== October in this house a majority of reasonable people who do not simply wipe 150 people's lives with a hand movement from the table. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18411	The motion for a resolution has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kukacka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18435	Mr President. High house! I do not think it is necessary to reject the point leader's license in principle and from the outset without being willing to discuss concrete content and the design of such a point leader's license. I don't think so. This is an insatiable policy, which, above all, does not recognize that it is also a matter of avoiding injuries, deaths and accidents in the future. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Who did two years ago...?]] In any case, we will not, in principle, conclude this discussion. In this sense, we are also prepared to discuss the Liberal Forum's request. He should also be a topic of the expert discussion, and all good ideas should be taken up and discussed. The ball is now, as has been said, at the Ministry of Transport and at his expert round. In addition, on this issue, however, I would like to refer to the Board of Trustees for Transport Safety, which said that it is opposed to a Husch-Fusch solution in the driver's license. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: It's against it!]] It was therefore also against the fact that before the summer, i.e. during this legislative period, this leader's licence should be decided. This is a reasonable position, because we know that we have done something very cautious about the traffic laws in this legislative period – I am thinking of the driving licence law – in order to express it very carefully. There has been massive criticism of this law because it has been done too quickly, because too little attention has been paid to whether this law can also be implemented and implemented by experts outside the District Headships, and then we have also had to endure this public criticism. This should not in any way happen to us on this essential issue, and it is therefore important to discuss this problem comprehensively, objectively and with the help of experts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I note that we are, in principle, ready to talk, but of course we need to impose conditions on the introduction of a point leader's license. That means: We want the point driver's license to include only serious traffic offences and no baggage offences. It must aim at the elimination of notary repeaters, but must not criminalise the average driver. That is an essential principle! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] It must also not impose a disproportionate red tape on countries, district chiefs and federal police departments, which will be responsible for administration and implementation, and not impose an unreasonable cost. Finally, before awarding a point, it is also necessary to take a concrete look at the risk of breach in the administrative criminal proceedings. That means: These points must not simply be given schematically, but they must also be examined individually whether such a crime occurs under dangerous conditions, for example, in such a way that it is overtaken on an inconsistuous route. This is quite different from a formal offence, for example. We are therefore concerned that a point award must always involve a very specific risk to other road users. The former driving licence withdrawal system also does not provide incentives for affected handlebars to improve their obviously disturbed transport relationship by the voluntary visit of behavioural courses and recruitment training courses. Therefore, withdrawal times must be shortened, for example, by appropriate recruitment training courses, post-training courses, training courses et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen! No one should believe, however, that the point driver's license is a patent against traffic accidents and that it will automatically and abruptly reduce the number of accidents and the number of road fatalities. It has already been tried to make us aware of this, in the 0.5-promille debate. Today's accident report speaks another language: Last year, the number of accidents and the number of fatalities caused by alcohol accidents has fallen significantly; this year we will see a clear increase in these figures again. This is exactly what I said here from this speaker's desk a year and a half ago, and what has been confirmed by international studies both in Sweden and in Holland, namely that the introduction of the 0.5-promille limit has in the short term caused a decline in alcohol driving, until the drivers have found that the executive is not able to enforce this law accordingly, since there is neither sufficient personnel nor equipment available. A rise to the old level has been the result, and this has already happened to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: (in the direction of Abg. Tichy-Schreder) Have you also clattered? That will be a het for the economy...!]] There are, at the end of my remarks, three groups of risks in particular. The promille drinkers over 0.8 promille are those who today cause alcohol accidents. The average for alcohol accidents is 1.2 permill, but not somewhere in the range of 0.5 promille and 0.8 promille. But another risk potential is the drug users, and I would like to talk about it. A word on drugs in road transport: We note that, both in Austria and in the Federal Republic of Germany, 10 percent of all accidents are caused by drivers who are under drugs. In the Federal Republic of Germany... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: 0.5 Promille alcohol!]] They're not included. We have already taken appropriate measures against these. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Against resistance from you!]] But I know: When it comes to drugs, you don't want to know about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Oh yes!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have declared yourself quite clearly on this question again. In any case, we want to do something about it. A request for initiative was submitted by the People's Party here in this House. Unfortunately, the SPÖ has not yet been ready to take part in our proposal for an initiative, and that is why nothing has happened in this legislative period. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why did you reject this?]] However, I would like to point out that, at the end of the long-term discussions of the Committee on Transport, which took place on this subject, we decided that the Federal Minister for Science and Transport and the Federal Minister for Justice were asked to develop a practical test procedure for the control of drugs and drugs in road transport and to propose a legal regime based on it. I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that this has not been achieved in this House, either, because of the resistance.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18599	Mrs Moser has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18620	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Mrs Sozialminister is now present, because traffic accidents and the driver's license are concerns which are very likely to have social components that focus specifically on the social group of young drivers of male nature who, because of their psyche, seem unable to behave in accordance with the rules of road safety. This is a social phenomenon. I do not want to say that the point driver's license makes the car drivers generally ready to drive. On the contrary: 98 percent of drivers comply with the traffic rules, drive correctly, and therefore need to be protected from those 2% who do not comply with speed restrictions that do not comply with alcohol limits and who do not comply with general road rules. We must support and strengthen the majority of drivers here in plenary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this respect, this majority of drivers must also be protected by means of a point driver's license. No question! It is important to make transport safety policy for the majority of drivers. I am of your opinion, Mr Kukacka, if you think we need more control and we need better equipment for both staff and equipment. We have repeatedly tabled a request calling for up to 50 per cent of the fines to be used to better equip staff and to set up a total of more general army posts or to set up more gendarmes in order to speed up the implementation of the control measures. If you check with the experts and experts, you can find out that in the list of modes of behaviour that are unfavourable in traffic, the speed crossing is far ahead. Drug addiction is more likely to be in the lower range. In the event of speed crossing, we must first and foremost put the lever on the lever – which does not mean that we are gnawing in drug policy. We do not know how to control drugs! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only in use and in weighting must we first have the speed control in mind. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Certainly the question of drugs, especially alcohol consumption, is also very important, but the priority is speed control. For this we need to invest more money, and the point driver's license would also be a very useful measure, which has proven itself in Germany, France, in England to protect the 98 percent more realistic and correct drivers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true! It's a fairy tale hour!]] I do not understand that you argue with the argument: My goodness, now it is important to obtain comprehensive expert advice, now it is necessary to pay attention to every small detail! [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's even worse than what the Knoflacher sucks!]] – There has already been a proposal on the score driver's license two years ago. This proposal had already been negotiated in detail two years ago. He could be effective. We could have prevented the 150 deaths due to the fact that there is no point driver's license – as my colleague Barmüller pointed out. That's worth it! You will certainly be in favour of saving people's lives, just like you, Mr Firlinger! Why aren't you in favour of the mature model coming into force? – In this way you really owe it – I emphasize: They are also to blame – that under default, under the invalidity of the point driver's license, 150 more dead are listed annually in the accident report and in the death balance. I am sorry, but I have to show you the accident statistics for 1998. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Please read on page 44 that Austria is at the top of the international comparison. The accident risk of the population in Austria, with approximately 4 900 accidents per 1 million inhabitants, is significantly higher than in almost all other European countries. In view of this fact, every means must be right for me – both the drug control and the leader's license – to save people's lives! I think that is the central point, and that is the point that leads to the point driver's license. Unfortunately, you have pushed it to the long bench. They are responsible for the fact that 60 pedestrians have already been victims of road accidents this year.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18728	The next speaker is Mr Wallner. Please, more than ten shouldn't be talking to him at the same time. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Nine still going?]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18757	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposals which are under discussion here give an opportunity to make some fundamental comments. First: It is a necessity, from my point of view, to introduce a point-of-point driver's license due to the positive international experience, but also because of the statistics on road fatalities and injuries. I hope that the expert group set up will reach agreement as soon as possible on the subject and that we will be able to vote on the introduction of the leader's licence. However, I also appeal to the coalition partner and, in particular, to Kukacka, his transport spokesperson, here – as he has already said – to take on a constructive, objective role and not to act as a braker, as in the question of the introduction of the 0.5-promille border. I have almost had the impression, Mr Kukacka, that you regret your approval, which you have given here under the pressure of the public and sad events. However, I would like to say something to you, because you have kept the SPÖ that we would be too negligent with regard to the control of drug use in driving. You started an initiative a year ago, and Mr Michalek, the Minister of Justice, gave you an answer in May 1998. I would also like to tell you that the road traffic regulations already provide that, if you are affected by addiction, you must not steer or operate a vehicle. There are, as you know, Mr Kukacka – I am saying this, even if you are interested in it – not yet suitable devices for testing on the road without blood loss, whether someone has consumed addiction or not. [[Deputies Mag. Kukacka and Dr. Pumberger talk together]] There are initiatives and developments also at international level, but devices that work similar to an alcomat are not yet available to us. I would also like to remind you that all serious scientists assume that there can be no absolute limit values in this area. Your proposal to make a sample of urine as a result of the subjective sensation of an executive body should simply be rejected. I mean, If a police officer or a gendarmerie officer takes a car driver out of the car because of a suspicion, only because he has large pupils, and has this urine test you're trying to do, that's what's humane. This should not in fact be justified in this area either. I am also in favour of an objective discussion and not for a hush-fush procedure. To sum up, I would like to say that I am positive about the introduction of the Dottsführerscheinsetz. I would be really happy if we could reach an agreement there.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18810	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18831	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The infinite history of the point guide ticket: I remember when Transport Minister Streicher said: Now we're entering the point driver's license! – To this day he has not been introduced. You see, it's probably going to go on this way even longer. My colleague, Mr Firlinger, has already taken a position, and I am fully aware of that. I would just like to mention a few arguments which are against the introduction of the driver's license. On the one hand, the establishment and operation of a central card will be subject to substantial costs, on the other hand, there will be a cave-out in data protection matters, and on the third, it can be said that when the point driver's license is introduced, the competent authority will be discharged. But the essential thing is that there is less to the point driver's license, but that more importance should be attached to road safety. If Mr Moser here speaks of 150 fatalities in connection with the driver's license, I must say: When "specialists" speak here, you see what comes out. To link the point driver's license with 150 road fatalities is really something terrible. We should have more evidence of the need to take more action in the area of road safety. We must take action to ensure that we fully extend the surveillance to the streets and also provide the necessary staff in the executive so that compliance with existing laws can be checked accordingly. The legislator and, therefore, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are called upon to adopt measures and laws so that these tasks can also be dealt with accordingly by the executive. The need for more staff in the executive is self-evident. We will also have the opportunity to discuss this in the course of the debate on the proposals of the Financial Committee tomorrow. But one more thing, ladies and gentlemen: Traffic monitoring takes place on the road and not in the office, in the point driver's license register or behind a desk on a computer. We can save ourselves the task of officials painting, saving points and, instead, actually investing in the streets and executives of the funds provided for the driver's license. Then we can ensure that there is safety on the streets. Security on the street is worth more to our freedom than a point driver's license, which does not bring anything.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18880	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18902	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would like to address briefly my request for amendments to the Vienna Agreement, rejected by the Coalition Committee after two years of parking, with a view to the creation of internationally binding, strict rules on exhaust and safety. In her contribution, Mr Binder has previously welcomed every measure that serves road safety. I therefore ask: Why the rejection of my request in committee? I will speak to you in a moment, Mr Parnigoni. The rejection of my request is not, in fact, factual, but because it comes from the opposition, it must be rejected. In fact, you are calling for strict exhaust regulations in the environmental programme, Mr Parnigoni, but at the same time you are refusing to document this by the proposal to amend the Vienna Convention, which dates back to the 1960s. They demand higher safety standards in your programs. They demand this in the media, especially when major accidents occur, as in the tragic bus accident of the Hungarian bus in the Styria. At the same time, however, you reject an application that has nothing else to do with it and, above all, is forcing motor vehicles coming from the East to comply with the safety standards laid down by law in Austria. They are constantly demanding controls in all possible areas, but at the same time they reject applications aimed at ensuring that the federal and state states together allow or carry out as complete a safety review of all vehicles crossing the EU's external borders as possible, as well as conspicuous vehicles. Or, as is often the case today, Mr Parnigoni, you call for the trucks to be brought on the rails, and this is justified by the safety problems caused by the rails. Simultaneously approved Your EU group in Strasbourg will extend truck dimensions in such a way that it will be 44 tonnes from 40 tonnes of trucks. Or you'll call for a shift on the track, but for example for the Arlbergstraße, which – you can calculate yourself – is very many in this year – I don't know exactly how many days have been blocked, there is no extension or safety measure in the Master Plan. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you want lower emissions and higher safety on Austria's roads, you have to agree to this request, as the only target solution for the enforcement of Austrian standards is a renegotiation of this Vienna agreement and the subsequent enforcement of a reservation, such as Germany has enforced it in the case of the spears. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, have developed a championship in constantly deceiving the people through announcement on the one hand and against decisions on the other. Perhaps this still accepts the population for some time, but certainly not in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e18951	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is thus closed. There is no final word on the part of the report. We shall come to the vote, and we will vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Transport to take note of his report in 1937. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this information to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bar-müller and Mr Comrades on the steps taken by liberalisation in the field of driving schools. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution, Barmüller, to give an appropriate signal. – The application remains in the minority and is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1938. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign on this point. – The notice is made by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1939. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent to this resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is decided by a majority. (E 187.) Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of his report in 1940. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request to have a corresponding sign. This request was adopted by a majority. We have done this part of the agenda. 19. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 32 to 37, No. 39 to 47, No. 49 and 51 to 55, as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 14, 15 and 21 (1901 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19055	We arrive at the 19th. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not foreseen, so let us start with the words. The first speaker is Mr Fischl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19083	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have to take note of the collective report of petitions and citizens' initiatives – or not. I'd like to take the tension straight ahead: We shall not, of course, take note of this collective report. For us, this report is, in fact, a balance sheet, a balance sheet on the fact that a highly sensitive instrument is being put in place for a committee, an instrument that allows the citizen to express his concerns, his wishes and his needs, so that they may be included in the legislation. If we take account of this current account, we must say that this current account should, at the end of the day, have a name, so to speak, and this means "uncurrency". It is, ladies and gentlemen, a bankruptcy with regard to the efficiency of the processing, consideration, approval and processing of these petitions and citizens' initiatives! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of some 77 concerns raised by Members of Parliament or also by people who have signed hundreds of them, about one third have disappeared in Parliamentary Nirwana. From 14 onwards, it is interesting to note that such initiatives and petitions were mainly affected by the FPÖ. Of 9 citizens' initiatives and petitions, it is possible to say that they have fallen out, and 4 are taking place somewhere in the committees. That is why we can say today that about a third of these important concerns of the citizens, but also of the Members of Parliament, especially when it comes to the free movement of persons, are simply not being dealt with. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to see you, Mrs Fuchs, as the committee chairman here, looking very carefully down here, too, looking at the cause of this declaration of bankruptcy. Mrs Fuchs, I have not yet experienced this! I am now the seventh year member of this House and have worked in numerous committees. I have come into this committee as a substitute for a colleague. I didn't trust my eyes and ears there: Every time committee meetings took place, it was felt that one was in a coffee wreath, in which an ideological point of view was made from the outset, Mrs Fuchs, and one had the feeling that one had to deal with the superior of a coffee wreath. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] That is a sad realization for me, Mrs Fuchs! I can tell you: Let us take instructions from your colleagues in other political groups on how to make a presidency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] It may be that this sounds like it in your ears, Mrs. Fuchs. I've already told you: Things you blame me don't bother me, Mrs. Fuchs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I also think it is important to quote an example that shows why I am saying that the initiatives of the liberals may be annoying and unpopular of the SPÖ-ÖVP, while others – for example, there is a petition from Mr Khol and all other ÖVP delegates – are actually completely unnecessary. If Mr Khol makes a petition in which he opposes the bureaucracy of club life, I must say: He would have done better to call the Minister. Finally, Mr Khol Klubobmann is the ÖVP, who, together with the SPÖ, is in the government. He therefore does not need to strengthen the Committee on Petitions because he wants to attack Mr Michalek because he in turn wants to make a novel or a preparation to change the law of the association. A purely letterbox company should certainly not be the Committee on Petitions, so that it is played silently as a minister. We liberals do not allow this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It seems equally important to me to note, for example, that at the last meeting, for example, colleagues in this committee - I would say, at the big coffee wrench meeting - it makes no sense to assign petitions and citizens' initiative committees, since, on a flat-rate basis, there are no more days. You have then selected a few – three or four – and the rest is lost. [[Abg. Fox: You still haven't caught it...!]] I think that is talking volumes about moral decay. I say it quite openly: I do not want to call this person by name because I really do not want to insult them and very much appreciate them. But I think it is not right to make a speech and say: We parliamentarians no longer need to deal with this, because who will want to adopt unpopular laws before the end of the legislative period, shortly before new elections? – and this under the care of Mrs. Fuchs! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say to you that my speaking time is coming to an end: We liberals will again use the next legislative period to stimulate citizens' initiatives and bring petitions. I can also tell you: We liberals will help to make this instrument more sensitive to the citizens in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19155	Next speaker is Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19177	Mr President. Mrs. Minister – she's not here – High House! The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives celebrates its 10th anniversary this year. In spite of all the criticism that I am going to address afterwards, and I believe that I have to make criticism to the extent that Mr Fischl, who has only been involved twice in these committee negotiations, has done so, we reject this, and all the members of the committee, and probably the other colleagues will also say that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, in particular, has welcomed the fact that we have been able to speak very well with each other. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm afraid he hasn't spoken more often!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How many times did he do?]] That was something I have always felt particularly beneficial in this committee: that we also had a very good dialogue with the opposition – I am thinking of colleague Haidlmayr, colleague Motter, colleague Schaffenrath or colleagues Hofmann. The Committee is an instrument of closeness to citizens and has a high degree of acceptance. However, I believe that more could be done in the field of public relations, because many citizens probably do not know of this possibility and therefore do not make use of it to bring citizens into Parliament through this Committee on Citizens' Affairs. I would now like to highlight the positive aspects of this instrument: Many petitions have changed laws, or the concerns expressed in them have flowed into law enforcement. I am thinking, for example, of the petition number 43, "Novelle zur Berggesetz", but I am also thinking of the citizens' initiative "Do not look away" against the abuse of children who have been supported with 78 000 signatures and whose concerns, for example, have long since been incorporated into legislation by the same high penalties in the case of sleeping and fornication, the rejection of a reduction in the age of protection, improved protection of victims or also the modification of the limitation period. Mr Amon's motion for a resolution (Doc. 50 000 young people have expressed themselves here: Politics is important to us; we are interested in what the generation agreement should look like in the future! – For example, as the result of a subcommittee, there is also a resolution to the Federal Government asking it to examine in the future all legislative projects for generation compatibility. I believe that this is very important, and there should also be a parliamentary survey on this subject. But there were also other petitions that have reached exactly the opposite, insofar as one knew that a law is in preparation, but one did not want to go into the matter. For example, Mr Khol's petition is to be mentioned here. It was not only supported by the representatives of the ÖVP – my colleague, Kurzbauer, will go further – but there have been tens of thousands of signatures in many federal states in order to avoid the red tape of the associations. The ÖVP MEPs supported this because they said: This is also very important to us, and that is why we are putting our signature under it, because we know that the work of the associations is essential both in the voluntary social field and in the rescue services and that the right of association is a fundamental right to civil liberties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to refer to the petition number 55. They all know that before the tax reform, the increase in unit values has always been seen as a terror in the area and has been debated by some. It was the petition number 55, which was introduced before the tax reform and stated: We cannot accept this as a citizen! This burden is particularly unbearable for farmers, and that must not be so! I believe that there has been a lot of positive results and that we can expand this. Now I would also like to say that we are all concerned about how we can improve committee work, how we can make it more efficient. I believe that we should also consider the Rules of Procedure on this point. I do not think it is positive that, as is the case with all the other motions for resolutions, initiatives and so on, the petitions and citizens' initiatives also expire at the end of the legislative period. I shall try to become an initiative in our club, too, so that we can really think about it and find a different regulation in this respect in the Rules of Procedure. The present situation, I believe, is unsatisfactory for all of us, and we must express it. This is an experience from the Committee, and there must be an amendment. We must also ask ourselves: What about the time frame? Within what time limit should petitions, positive or negative, be answered or treated? Of course, we also need to ask ourselves what this should look like with the introduction. I would like to address a specific petition made by a FPÖ member. That, I believe, is not what is proposed in the Committee on Petitions. [[Abg. Fischl: Mrs Colleagues, this has been clarified by law!]] However, there are also receivers who repeatedly bring petitions, also from outside. There too we could think about how this should be regulated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I think it certainly cannot be so that we can appreciate in the Committee on Petitions who can bring petitions and citizens' initiatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: I think so too!]] [[Abg. Fischl: This is also in the Rules of Procedure!]] This too is a point I would like to underline here. I believe that the Committee is generally a good institution for citizens to submit their ideas, their initiatives, their ideas for changes to us to Parliament. For the next legislative period, however, we must make it possible to find an even better way through the Rules of Procedure in order to give citizens a hearing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19286	The next speaker is Mr Franz Koller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19308	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! We liberals are in favour of a bourgeois policy. People's desires, petitions and citizens' initiatives are the democratic roots of a bourgeois policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The demands for greater proximity to citizens and increased transparency must finally be taken seriously! Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens strive and bring in well-founded petitions and citizens' initiatives. But there is a lack of implementation and completion. Many of the petitions and citizens' initiatives brought in are shubbled and pushed to the long bank. Now, at the end of the legislative period, there is time pressure. That is why we have asked the liberals in the committee to allocate all petitions and citizens' initiatives to committees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] They rejected this from the government parties. All unassigned petitions and citizens' initiatives are lost! They must be reintroduced in the next legislative period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] This is a cutting-off of civil rights! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, I would like to refer to the petition number 47, which was: "Petition to maintain the economic infrastructure of Obdachs, the bypass variant of the 15th century. ==References====External links== – After years of planning discussions, the 1983 variant was considered to be positive by the parties, since the OMC service station located at the northern edge of Obdach was integrated into this planning and, on the other hand, the cost-effectiveness of the project was given and the route management was accepted by the population. This petition number 47 has been shubbled and has not been treated for a long time. ==References== In March of this year, the new variant was already under construction. The new Va-riante is longer, the OMC service station is only accessible by detours and therefore economically disadvantaged. In addition, three residences had to be replaced and cut. The now built variant causes substantial additional costs. Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to repeat this case, I would ask you to allocate all petitions and citizens' initiatives to committees so that they can be completed during this legislative period. Every petition and citizens' initiative has the right to be discussed and dealt with here in Parliament. We liberals will continue to support citizens' rights! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19378	The next speaker is Mrs Fuchs. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19417	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! There will be no state-supporting speech, but it will be a slightly more positive speech than the one you have just made. I mean, if you have taken part in this committee twice, Mr Fischl, and then you take up what you have given yourself today, then the volume speaks. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why doesn't he meet more often?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This testifies to so much arrogance and is so unpleasant that I do not want to express myself. However, I would now like to report on those things which we have also held in the collective report and which have taken place until the last two sessions. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many committees have taken place?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many committees?]] More committees than in the years before and more than ever before. I would also like to make that clear. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We always had a lot with the Ederer!]] Yeah, but you're forgetting that's a little bit of "stone time," right? It's been a little while. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Stone Age Ederers!]] That's been over for a while. They live a little too much in the past and not enough in the present, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you so unchallenged about the woman's councilwoman?]] I very much appreciate Mrs Stadtratin Ederer, and I believe that she has also earned great merit here in the House. It is not for you to talk about them in this way or to value their activity in any way. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We did not insult them! You talked about the Stone Age!]] We very much appreciate them. She has a high position in Vienna, the highest position, that of a finance councillor. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are talking about the Stone Age!]] I think that this alone shows what benefits it can provide. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: By the way, at km 35 she also made an excellent figure!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Yes! I have not spoken about where you already had the tongue at miles 35, when I was still quite fresh there; but I did not walk, I must say that too. [[Abg. Scheibner: At km 42 it was then reversed!]] – But this was a side-by-side approach and has nothing to do with the Committee on Petitions and the report on the collection. [[Abg. Scheibner: We've been waiting all the time!]] I note that the Committee on Petitions of the National Council of the Republic of Austria is that body through which citizens can directly influence legislation and action. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How old is the Eder?]] It is the only committee in which citizens have the opportunity to express their concerns. Changes and improvements in our community are triggered by direct impulses of the citizens, resulting in an active participation in the process of political will-building. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives wishes to have an interlocutory role between the citizens of this State and Parliament. [[Abg. Fischl: Who wrote this to you?]] I believe that we have been very successful. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ( towards SPÖ) How old is the Ederer?]] Mrs Gatterer has given some examples of this, and I too would like to see the positive in this matter and less the destructive examples that we have heard before. However, in this committee, we are not only trying to help in individual cases, but we are preparing proposals or suggestions which, on the one hand, fall within the scope of the law and, on the other hand, in the legislation. What I actually wanted to do was to report on the good working environment that was in place until the last two meetings in committee. Most inputs were agreed and decided in a cross-party manner. We have really tried to find common solutions, best solutions for each individual case. The processing of the inputs has really been focused on relevant problem-solving and, I am convinced of this, will continue to be done in this sense. I think that is very important: the Committee on Petitions confirms and strengthens confidence in democratic procedures, in democratic institutions and in Parliament's resolution competence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want not only to perform an intermediate function, but also to make parliamentary practices more transparent. On the subject of upgrading, I can no longer comment now, because my time has expired. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] [[Call the liberals: Your time has expired?- Oh, my God!]] My speaking time – so that I express it correctly – has expired. I would just like to thank the members of the Committee on Petitions and the relevant club staff for their very good and successful cooperation during this legislative period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19739	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. I cannot understand the calls made by Mr Wabl because they are all going in the wrong direction. Please, Mr Blünegger.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19766	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. As Mr Fischler has already said, we shall not be voting in favour of this joint report by the Committee on Petitions. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Now the liberals already have a fisherman!]] Fischl! Mrs Gatterer! If you say you can't practice criticism, I don't understand your speech. I believe that criticism should be positive and that criticism should be made in this committee so that this committee can work positively is appropriate. That's what we're doing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can imagine that Mrs Fuchs, as chairman, has been very excited in view of the criticism that Mr Fischl has presented here today. He wanted, of course, to achieve exactly the same thing with his contribution to the debate: that this committee works constructively, that the petitions and the citizens' initiatives that are brought in are not left behind or not lost. We have made such suggestions, among other things. We were the first to propose a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council so that these citizens' initiatives and petitions do not expire at the end of a legislative period. That is what we all want, and I hope that, in this sense, a change in the Rules of Procedure will also be possible on the stage. However, many of the 23 petitions and citizens' initiatives have not been completed and will no longer be done during this legislative period. This too is a criticism that we are making, and we hope that this will no longer be done in the next legislative period, because that is how these citizens' initiatives were for nothing. But this is from our point of view, from the point of view of the liberals, an unsustainable state – that is quite clear – since we have to bear in mind that many citizens make signatures and actually expect the people to deal with these petitions in the National Council and to be concluded there. We liberals say: We are closer to the citizens' interests, they are at our centre, and we do not want party policy directly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As evidence that citizens' concerns are not really at the centre, it is also appropriate to point out that, despite many opinions, nothing has changed so far. Or has any citizen or citizen initiative ever led to a government proposal? – I do not yet know such a case from this committee. A sample of nails will certainly have to exist if they have to take seriously the concerns of the citizens who, in my opinion, are the sovereign and who, according to the Constitution, have the power, when they approach the government through petitions and citizens' initiatives. But she hasn't done it yet. On the other hand, it is very successful in inventing new burdens, it is very successful in stopping budget holes with resources that should actually be intended, and it is very successful in inventing new taxes. Despite good arguments, such as the fact that there should actually be a more committed employment policy, it is only using false figures. I believe that we liberals are right in this sense, and we will therefore not vote in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19814	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19835	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:Speak loud! There's nothing to hear!]] Madam President of the Committee on Petitions. Your time has not expired for a long time, because your presidency is refreshing and very pleasant, and it should remain that way for a long time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start the debate on the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, which will shortly be about the importance... [[Abg. Scheibner: But you don't understand anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Put the microphone down! You don't hear anything!]] Sorry! Do you want me to repeat it? . I would like to take the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to give a brief discussion on the importance of the Committee on Petitions. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You still don't hear anything!]] Considering that half of all petitions have been brought in this joint report by representatives of the government parties, the question in principle is whether an instrument which was introduced in 1867 – and you hear well, ladies and gentlemen – is still up to date. 1867, that was in the time of the monarchy, and thus this instrument is an expression of a state of authority. That is to say, the petition’s instrument comes from a time when it was impossible for the citizen to come directly and democratically into contact with the legislation. However, with the instrument of the Citizens' Initiative, our democracy has provided citizens with the opportunity to address themselves directly to Parliament and to express their concerns. There are also many possibilities for our Members to become active. Requests for resolutions, own-initiative requests, written and oral questions, urgent questions, questionings, current hours, surveys and committee of inquiry, auditing orders to the Court of Auditors and investigation committees are democratic instruments which are also useful. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Chef, you're right. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Investigation Committees unfortunately not!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But there was a time when we had one. I hope it will be that way again. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me that the concerns of citizens of the two-thirds majority in this House are being expressed as petitions. If concerns or demands of citizens are taken seriously, then they should not be brought in the form of petitions, which, as we all know, are usually shaken, but should be in the form of applications – thank you! – or are introduced by the respective government members as a government template in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Fischl: Thank you for my confirmation!]] In fact, it should also be of concern to our Members that the Committee on Petitions does not go into a toothless institution. [[Call to the liberals: He was always toothless!]] I have already heard today that this is the wish of several political groups, and we will certainly have to think about it during the next legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that citizens' initiatives are an important and serious instrument of direct democracy. [[Abg. Fischl: You are really my opinion, Mrs Colleague! I'm really proud of it!]] We should treat them as such and take them seriously. My proposal – perhaps it will be taken into account – is therefore to upgrade the Committee on Petitions by means of a right of application and thereby make it more politically effective. This would be an essential step towards specialist committees and would bring with it a new quality of democratic understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19976	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e19997	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with two petitions from this report, first of all with petition number 35 and then with petition number 51. As far as the petition number 35 is concerned, I am actually disappointed, as did the Liberal Group, that the wishes of the Austrian Senior Ring were simply and simply not taken note of, but that one believed, with the corresponding majority vote on 19 May. In March, to be able to distance themselves from these demands. I believe that the concerns of our older citizens about constitutional protection of their pensions would have been more serious here than they had been in the Committee on Petitions after the present report. I also think that some of what the Federal Government has said about the legitimate concerns and wishes of the elderly with regard to the insurance of their pensions should be questioned. I also believe that, in item 2, the billing of child rearing periods for the justification of a pension claim for women in Austria is still insufficiently regulated today, because if you look at the text of the law which is currently in force, then you note that a woman must bear almost eight children in succession at such intervals as to establish a pension claim in the current legal situation. I believe that in today's society and in today's unfortunately poor age, there is no practical proposal and that what the Federal Government has set in motion is insufficient to take account of the interests of women, in this case of children's rearing women, in such a way as to take account of them. I therefore hope that what is valid for this legislative period of the Committee on Petitions on this issue does not represent the final attitude on the issue of family policy and policies with regard to the protection of women with children. In my opinion, this would be an evidence of poverty for the Austrian social state. Now to the second point, to the petition number 51, introduced by the HCV victims, by the hepatitis-Liga of Austria. Of these points 1 to 20, which have been led by the Hepatitis-Liga, unfortunately, only a few have been implemented in the passing legislative period. It is particularly sad that only a marginal area of these demands could be implemented, not here in the Committee on Petitions, because this matter has been allocated, but in the other committees. It should be noted as positive that at least after years of pressure the Ministry has finally adopted a regulation on sterilization of medical instruments, in particular endoscopes, in the context of the first Hepatitis Day of Austria in September 1998. It is also quite positive to note that in the field of blood safety there has been a great deal of improvement. However, the situation in the field of research is insufficient, and it has still not been achieved in the area of the establishment of hepatitis ambulances. Unfortunately, it has to be noted that the psychological care of HCV patients and the opening of all-round HIV outpatients could not be achieved, but that, on the contrary, there are dubious responses from the Ministry to this problem. Finally, it is sad that, with a single exception in which the general clause has been applied, the occupational disease regulations in this area are insufficient and that recognition as a occupational disease is not yet regulated in a satisfactory manner. I therefore believe that the issue of HCV has not been resolved by the present report of the Committee on Petitions or by the forwarding to the relevant health committees, but that this problem will also concern the House during the next legislative period. Too much remains open, and I ask you to take at least the remaining concerns of the hepatitis-Liga more seriously than it has been until now.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20044	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20065	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives shows quite clearly that the content of the citizens' initiatives and petitions that we have received over the years is nothing but a reflection of society, which shows what concerns are to be implemented or what wishes and demands there are on the part of the population. The Committee on Petitions, although always judged as if it had no value, has a very significant value, even if this value is still a lower value. This committee is absolutely up-to-date. I do not believe that the Committee on Petitions has the right to seek opinions. There is not even a legal deadline for the time when the opinions must be available. Actually, that'd be six weeks. However, if the opinions do not meet within this period, they will still not be there after six weeks. Therefore, most of the people's wishes will be sent around for a very long time before there is a response or implementation. That it is, I am sorry. I am also sorry that in the Committee on Petitions, the patch between SPÖ and ÖVP has just emerged very clearly in the last half of the year by simply delaying citizens' initiatives and petitions – delaying on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, with everyone being aware that it will no longer come during this legislative period. I do not think it is necessary to keep the population to fool with such delays. The people know why they are making a petition, so it should be our responsibility to treat or reject these citizens' initiatives. I think that consideration should be given to whether the possibility of delay in a petition committee really makes sense. In my opinion, it has no meaning, for it delays the fulfilment of the wishes of the population. But that should not be the case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I would also like to point out that the Greens have succeeded in bringing a subject to the House, with the support of disabled people in Austria, through a petition - namely petition No to the Biomedicine Convention. I am glad and proud that, as a result of my parliamentary survey in 1997, it became possible that more than 100 000 people signed this petition and that there are more than 130 associations that say no to the Biomedicine Convention. The fact that this petition is still in the Constitutional Committee is a shame. I would like and hope very much that it will be dealt with during this legislative period and that this will be concluded. But I fear that God can no longer be expected. But at least it has succeeded in making the subject public, and it will not succeed – as some have wished – that the Biomedicine Convention of Austria is quietly and secretly ratified at the expense of disabled people and as a source of danger to all incompetent persons. That won't work, and I'm very happy about that! I would also like the Committee on Petitions not only to have a right of allocation, but also to express clearly what is to be done with a petition or a citizens' initiative, and in what form a legislative amendment or a legislative act is needed. I believe that this right must be fought by the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives. I would like this Committee to be upgraded accordingly during the next legislative period and to be given a high priority in parliamentary work, that the concerns and interests of the people of the Committee on Petitions not only be passed on to the Committee on Petitions, but are seriously discussed in the Committee itself, and that proposals for solutions to these citizens' initiatives and petitions come from the Committee on Petitions to the individual committees, so that the opportunity is given for the wishes and interests of the people to be taken seriously and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20123	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20145	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the petition number 37, which was tabled by our clubman Dr. Andreas Khol and, as we have already heard today, by us, the member of the ÖVP club. This petition was filed at a time when the draft for a new association law was discussed in the public. This draft showed particular deterioration and would have resulted in red tape and, above all, existential danger to the work of many associations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are about 100,000 clubs in our federal territory. Let us think of the approximately 1 million members and officials involved, and let us all contribute together to the fact that these ladies and gentlemen are no longer insecured in their functions! As mayor, I very much appreciate the work of our more than 80 active associations. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, your home communities, where numerous celebrations take place! I am also thinking, for example, of some opening of a new club house, of the fact that officials at the official opening report very proudly that thousands of hours of voluntary work have often been done for a project. I am also thinking of the activities and achievements of our volunteer fire brigades and the aid organization, or I am thinking of the activities of village and urban renewal, which has become the largest citizen movement in our federal state, in Lower Austria, at the initiative of our head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll. All these benefits could not be financed by the public authorities. Our associations have an important task, especially in rural areas. They provide essential services for our country. The majority of the voluntary and voluntary activities of citizens are essential for social life, for meaningful leisure and for cultural, social and public life. I therefore welcome the opinion of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, according to which there will be no reform of association law without broad consensus between the political parties and the numerous associations. Since there is no consensus at present, there is also no innovation on the existing association law. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The determined action of the entire ÖVP Parliamentary Club prevented the implementation of the project of a revision of the association law. I would like to thank all those who have contributed.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20191	The next speaker is Mrs Tegischer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20212	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer very briefly to the petition No 44 on youth protection and youth promotion laws contained in the report, on the initiative of young people, because it is a good example of the fact that the Committee on Petitions can move something too. In detail, I do not want to address the content now, because I will have enough opportunity to do so in the plenary debate on Friday, because there will be a separate agenda item on this matter concerning youth. That's what I've reached at the core point. We have received opinions from the Committee on Petitions, and I am pleased to see that the report on the situation of young people has been set up as a subcommittee of its own. We succeeded in formulating a motion for a resolution on this petition, and it was finally adopted unanimously. This is a great success on behalf of young people and an excellent example of continuous and close cooperation between young people and Members with the help of a petition. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Horngacher.]] The next citizen initiative, which I would like to mention as an example, is the petition number 56 on the establishment of a rolling country road in the Drau and Puster valleys. I would therefore like to mention this because this concern was actually introduced as a citizens' initiative, because of a lack of form and was referred back untreated to the first signatory after ten months. This is a pity because it is a very important issue for initiators. I therefore tabled this request as a petition and, of course, I would like this petition to be assigned to a committee after receiving the opinions. This has led us to the problem, which has already been mentioned several times, that petitions can be brought back relatively easily by Members, but not by citizens' initiatives. That is why we wish ourselves – and I know that it is a cross-party thing – that citizens' initiatives do not expire at the end of the legislative period. We have started an initiative across parties and have drawn up several proposals for the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiative, and we would be very happy if we had the opportunity to bring these proposals to the House in the form of a request. Finally, I have an unconventional proposal, which also has competitors from all parties. It is about who is allowed to sign citizens' initiatives. You know that it is only from 19th century onwards. The term of office shall be used for the purpose of the signature. We make the unconventional proposal to be signed by young people from 14 years of age or older, because young people are more responsible for their own actions, both civil and criminal, than they are. And why – this question I ask – should young people not have the right, just as adults, to support concerns that directly concern them? This would be our commitment as a politician to give more weight to the opinion of young people and thereby show them our appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20262	The next speaker is Mr Rada. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20283	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been debated very extensively and in detail in the debate on the importance of the Committee on Petitions, as well as on the need and meaningfulness of petitions and citizens' initiatives in general. I would like to add: There are very many really important and meaningful petitions, but perhaps also some sort of curiose. I would like to draw attention to the request for an immediate stop to the spelling reform, which has been introduced by Members of the European Parliament. I would like to admit that the current spelling reform is not what we all hoped for as a supporter of a reform. She's become a referendum. The old spelling was a huge obstacle for people who had to serve themselves but also for students, and there were not a few repetitious people who had to attribute it only to the spelling, because there were too many exceptions, as one had to write some word or other. But exactly what was hoped for did not come about with the reform. Although in most cases we no longer have a sharp but the real obstacle, the grammatical distinction of "that" and "that" remains. The following is also not quite clear: In the personal address and on congratulations cards, many people have the problem of writing "your" small as it was written. On the other hand, "Euretwegen" has to be written. "Begone" is written with a large, "pleite be" with small initial letters. With these three examples, I would like to highlight the curiousness of the reform. Nevertheless, I believe that the reform is on the right track. It shows us the feedback from teachers that our students already learn the new spelling better than the old ones. A stop to this spelling reform would be the greatest dispassion! After all, our school beginners have been trained with the new spelling since 1997 and learn the new spelling. These students now – just because some Members believe that this reform is to be stopped – to retort with the old one would really not make sense of a spelling reform!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20319	The next speaker was Mr Löschnak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20381	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to make a few brief comments from the point of view of sport on the petition number 49. This is the petition in which, after a long history, we ask for the release of the forest roads for mountain bikers. If I have understood this correctly, it will be assigned to a Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee. So there is probably no longer any result to be expected in this legislative period. However, I believe that the facts are quite simply talking about the fact that we are really seriously dealing with this issue. It is, after all, about the fact that we have a total of 130 000 kilometres of forest roads and that only 10 000 kilometres of them are currently available to mountain bikers. It is also about the fact that some 1 million citizens in Austria have a mountain bike. Surveys have shown that around half would also like to use more forestry roads. Finally, it is also about the fact that in the neighbouring countries the use of the forest roads for mountain bikers is in principle released. That is true in Bavaria, that is true in Switzerland, that is true in Italy. I therefore believe that even in the interests of Zig thousands of holidaymakers who want to have more opportunities with mountain bikes in Austria, and in the interest of about half a million sportsmen, we should take a serious look at this subject, which should perhaps hold back a little ideologically motivated resistance and then come to a good result. This is my appeal in connection with the petition number 49. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20417	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is thus closed. We shall vote, and we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of his 1901 report of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who express their approval for this information, to give an appropriate sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. That is what we have done on the agenda. 20. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1758 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the establishment and exercise of the free movement of services of clinical psychologists and health psychologists from the European Economic Area (EEA Psychologists Act) (1979 of Supplements) 21. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1759 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the establishment and exercise of the free movement of services of psychotherapists from the European Economic Area (EEA Psychotherapy Act) (1980 of Supplements) 22nd point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1774 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Traffic in Food Salt (1981 of Supplements) 23. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1777 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the midwives Act and the Health and Hospital Care Act (1982 of Supplements) 24. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1778 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Medical Equipment Act and the AIDS Act 1993 (1983 of Supplements) 25. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1824 of the Supplements): Agreement on the Enforcement of Patient Rights (patient charter) (1984 of Supplements) 26. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1084/A by Dr Elisabeth Pittermann, Dr Günther Leiner and comrades on a Federal Act amending the Pharmacy Chamber Act (1985 of Supplements) 27. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1097/A by Dr Elisabeth Pittermann, Dr Günther Leiner and Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Blood Safety Act 1999 (1986 of Supplements) 28. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1000/A (E) by Mrs Theresia Haidlmayr and others on the establishment of a statutory compensation fund for persons harmed by blood or blood products (1987 of the supplements) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 1001/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the conclusion of an insurance scheme for the protection of blood and plasma donors (1988) 30. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 841/A (E) by Mrs Brigitte Povysil and others on improving and extending the obligation to report HIV (1991) 31. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 875/A (E) by Mrs Brigitte Povysil and others on the restructuring of hospital and acute beds (stations) to Palliative stations (1992) 32. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 938/A (E) by Dr Brigitte Povysil and comrades on health safety by removing exceptions to the Bacillae Excretion Act (1993 of Supplements) 33. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 950/A (E) by Dr Brigitte Povysil and comrades on performance-oriented hospital financing (CKF) - corresponding amendment to the cost accounting regulation (1994 of the supplements) 34. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 827/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a uniform federal legislation for the reference of doctors of the Federal Doctors (1995 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20632	We come to points 20 to 34 on which the debate is being held under one. Requests for oral reporting are not available. That is why we can go into the debate at once. First speaker is Dr. Pumberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20660	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Later evenings comes as usual the health potpourri of 15 applications, 15 plus 2 in a separate point. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: 17!]] These are primarily government templates, all of which lead to an EU or EEA adjustment. However, all these EU and EEA adaptations have one thing in common: a levelling down. There is a deterioration in the situation over the current situation in Austria, and we are therefore simply and simply opposed to it. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: At your level?]] We can't carry that. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's already starting with the Psychologist and Psychotherapist Act. Let us assume that Mr Rasinger needs a psychotherapist. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: No!]] He must go to the treatment, because he expects help there, conveys his concern to the therapist for a long and detailed time, and after a detailed presentation of his complaints and state of mind, the therapist answers him. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You need therapy yourself!]] Then he comes to it: The good man didn't understand me, and I don't understand him because he's not powerful in German. He must not even be powerful in the German language if he is admitted as a psychologist or a psychotherapist in Austria in accordance with the right to exercise! This also criticizes the doctor's chamber. German language skills are required in the Medical Law and even by the veterinarians. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution which requires, in addition to the German knowledge, a criminal record certificate – not only from Austria but also from the country of origin and origin – which is not older than three months. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is similar with the patient charter. This is a very positive one. At the federal level, we are finally trying to reach agreements with the federal states that patient rights are mutually guaranteed. In this respect, there is a confusion of competence between the federal government and countries. Until now, only one federal state has signed this Charter, namely the federal state – one hears and marvels!, the signature is called Dr. Jörg Haider – Carinthia, a model country dedicated to ensuring patient rights! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gatterer: There was Haider not yet head of state!]] [[Further calls.]] Therefore, we shall also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to resume these negotiations immediately so that patient rights are safeguarded equally in the remaining eight federal states and not only in the model Federal Republic of Carinthia. There is also a deterioration in the law of midwives, and there is a deterioration in training before being settled on a professional basis. All in all, we reject almost all these government proposals. Which we agree you will see in a moment – for example, the patient charter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20803	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20825	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For reasons of time, I can only address today's government proposals and requests. I will therefore not comment on the Psychologists' Act as in the Committee, but leave the answer to Mr Buder. As a doctor, the patient charter is my heart, so I'll talk about it. I would just like to point out that it is unlikely that a patient charter can be completed in such a short time. So it's probably due to the preparatory work of extraterrestrials. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Most of the demands in the patient's chart have long been secured and binding for those who do in medicine. It is natural to use therapies according to the highest level of science. Adding extra to pain therapy is not necessarily necessary, as the best possible standard is. The fear of alkaloid use has fallen. One does not take the pain, except for diagnostic reasons. Not under pain, but in unhappiness or sorrow, you should give birth to your children, is in the Bible, so that pain control at birth is carried out as far as medically permitted. Of course, patients are transferred if their own department is not properly equipped. Medical care must be carried out at a professional level in accordance with Article 7. The call found a parliamentary majority and is common outside of Vienna. I doubt that intimacy and privacy can always be guaranteed, treatment and care procedures can be adapted to the usual life rhythm. It is essential to keep health-related data secret. But I see a collision with insurance contracts and some statistics. The hospital staff is overwhelmed by the current staff status when it comes to preventing unwanted visits. This requires staff increases. The right to self-determination, information and information exists for a long time and is also exercised for forensic reasons. Problem is the right to make decisions for serious cases, as no one knows his decision at that time. The consequences can be serious. The granting of an insight into the history of health is mandatory. In case of education, patients require as much information as they can bear. In order to clarify patients' rights, this patient charter is targeted. Some articles are problematic. In short, on application 1000/A: The very expensive blood products are required by patients with severe illness. In the case of organic products, all sources of danger must never be excluded. Cover all damage without considering whether the patients would have died without this preparation, leads to exorbitant costing of medicine. Without guilty behaviour as with those infectious blood preparations that were given were known as virus-safe preparations, compensation is difficult to imagine. Among the hepatitis C infected, we find a high proportion of academics because especially students as plasma donors improved their pocket money. That is why this disease is so widely discussed. Let us not forget that recipients were often infected with hepatitis B. Because they often died of this disease, they did not claim damages. It is terrible to suffer from the use of a cure, but without it there would have been no chance of survival. Complaints are not indexed blood canneds, such as those given after birth. We Social Democrats support an effective health policy. In this sense, we will also continue to make political progress.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20912	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e20933	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Among today's parliamentary... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Have you read that yet? Yes, thank God! Then I'm going to cut it very much now. [[Abg. Böhacker: Really?]] [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] I would just like to preach a few things, and you certainly agree with that. I have been preaching these things for many years now, and now we are now facing a contract to which it is to come in 2000, and in this context I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, in particular, to beg and to beg, as we say so beautifully, to draw attention to the question of the financing of the LKF system and, above all, to it with emphasis. How is this to be done? – There would be the possibility to move as much as possible into the extramural area. This extra-mural area of the established systems – be it medical practice, whether it be day-care clinics or the care of the home and so on – should be extended so that it is really possible to build barriers in respect of the ambulances and to bring out as many patients as possible from the hospital or to put them in a position not to go to a hospital at all. - That's the one point. The second point, which includes all these applications, is the precautionary medicine. I believe that in this area some things do not work properly insofar as one does not think correctly about why one does not have the desired success. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The lifestyle change!]] One should really consider: What is the relationship between lifestyle changes and health? What is the cost of life - threatening health? What are the causes of health - threatening lifestyles? What are the possibilities – and where are the limits of these opportunities – to achieve a health-adequate behaviour of the individual? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Lifestyle!]] I do not want to talk now about how many difficulties there are, but I would also like to point out certain causes, and they need to be researched even more so so that they can be taken and thus given help to the citizen. Among the causes is, for example, shorter working time and more leisure time. They'll ask themselves: Why? – Professor Marin found that people today work around 700 hours a year less than 30 years ago – 700 hours less a year – and he then asked himself: [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: In what time unit?]] What do people do with this free time? – He found that each Austrian spends 1 100 hours in front of the TV. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How long?]] 1 100 hours, as Professor Marin has determined. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: ORF?]] [[Call to the Freeman:On average?]] On average. [[Abg. Böhacker: But with a cable connection!]] It's possible. – And what are you doing with it? You're wet, you're drinking, and you don't just make movement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Soletti, chips!]] Of course, that's unhealthy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Is that true? 1 100 hours in front of the TV?]] Another cause is socialization. I think this is a very essential point, because society or the Community actually takes over every unhealthy life with social security, and this socialization also takes on individual responsibility for itself. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That can't be true! You take it back!]] Yeah, but please, if someone... Good. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The lifestyle change is only 37 percent!]] The contrast between health and quality of life is also a point that leads people to unhealthy life. The smoker simply says smoking is important for his quality of life. But the fact that he is harming society as a whole does not think about it. There are much more points that should be explored. One should also set out where the boundaries of that area in which one can really help. A positive campaign through the media would necessarily be recommended. I believe that there would be work to be done by the public authorities in a wide range of areas and that this would prevent human suffering or that it would also have a right savings effect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21124	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21157	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Clairvoyance, hurry, please!]] I'll do it very quickly! A very comprehensive agenda was discussed last week by the Health Committee. As always at the end of a legislative period, applications are piled up, and long lying time has finally to be prepared. It is not possible for me today, for reasons of time, to deal with all 15 items on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen! In short, to the most important legislation from our point of view: I would like to say to the EEA Psychologist and to the EEA Psychotherapy Act that it is largely about EU adaptations. In view of the fact that the level of qualification acquired abroad cannot be generally assumed, prior to a professional admission in Austria, it is necessary to individually review the equivalence of qualifications for professional training. If there are shortcomings or if the previous training does not meet the conditions, psychologists or psychotherapists from the EU countries may in future undergo compensation measures, an adaptation course or an aptitude test. What I have to say, however, is that it will be difficult to find models to adapt as training varies in Europe. In Austria alone, we have about 18 different psychotherapy schools. Austria is also one of the few countries in Europe that has a psychotherapist law. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the aptitude test, the question is therefore: Who is responsible, which school is taking the exam, and what criteria are valid? Mrs Minister, I think there is still a lot to be done, and I hope that you will also be satisfied. However, we agree with these two laws because we believe that it is also important for our young people abroad to get jobs there with their training. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the course of the discussion of the two laws, the Liberal Group introduced four amendments calling for proof of sufficient knowledge of the German language as well as proof of trustworthiness by means of a certificate of criminal record both from Austria and from the home and from the country of origin. We cannot accept this from the Liberals, ladies and gentlemen. Why should not Turkish or Croatian-speaking psychotherapists and psychologists also be able to practice this profession? It does not force us to go to these foreigners, as you always say, because we have free choice, both in terms of therapy and in terms of the therapists. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] To the government template with which the federal law – I do not have to go, but there are many who understand it as their countrymen and thus have more confidence in them – about the traffic with salt is being changed for us liberals, since this is also an EU adaptation and since we still need to make many such adjustments in this way in the future, the question whether or not to oppose a flood of law expected by EU adaptations would be the way through regulations of the much more unbureaucratic. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: So if I don't understand my psychotherapist, I have a problem!]] [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] – This bill is also approved by the Liberal Forum. In connection with the law on midwives, which also contains the priority objective of EU harmonisation and provides for the rules for vocational training, I would like to point out once again the joint request of Members Haidlmayr and Motter. We want to delete § 52 para. 4 of the law on midwives, which provides for the collection of the committee contribution. The work of the Austrian midwives body would thus be greatly facilitated, as expenditure of the Austrian midwives body is higher within the first six calendar months of each year than in the following months. It is therefore much more difficult and more clear to prescribe a regular contribution of 1,500 s per year at the beginning of the year for midwives. Mrs. Dr. Pittermann and Mr. Dr. Leiner! Your motion for a resolution is an eye-catching. Its content is to examine the collection of the committee contribution and, at any rate, to send a subsequent application for legislation to the National Council. What do you want? You're actually checking? Dispensing You don't believe the Austrian midwife body? Or are you just about to bring more laws into the House? Finally, I would like to say that we will reject Mr Povysil's motion for a resolution on improving and extending the obligation to notify HIV, because measures taken in agreement with fellow Members of the board and the EU in relation to health checks on entry into our country are simply impracticable and will not be wanted by us either. The notification system referred to in the request means discrimination against HIV patients, and we certainly do not want to do so! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Can you do tuberculosis tests?]] Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Dr. Gredler will address the Charter of Patient Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21234	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21255	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The collection of laws we have to adopt today is somehow grotesque, because it has once again happened that everything that is still to be implemented in this legislative period – EU adaptations et cetera – must be concluded at the last hour or at the very end. I would have liked us to have been able to discuss each item more and more in detail and not to discuss more than 30 agenda items in a committee in such a short time. [[Abg. Steibl: It's enough now! We've got 23 o'clock! I think we're worried about other people.]] It's just like that, and we have to live with it. I hope, however, that during this legislative period we will have a meeting of the Health Committee, where we will be able to discuss in greater detail and more intensively the projects still to be implemented, and that it will not again be such a large block, which can basically only be pushed through, but is no longer disputable. The Psychologistic and Psychotherapy Act has to be said that this is mainly an EU adaptation, that we call it a useful step, but that some questions remain open, for example the question of health fitness. It is unacceptable for us that people with disabilities should not become psychologists or psychotherapists, for example, because it is precisely in § 6 of the so-called proof of health fitness, and there will be people with special disabilities and not be taken. As an example we were brought in this context by Dr. Ringel: He was also more or less active until shortly before his death. That's right! But I think if Dr. Ringel had been disabled from the beginning, he would have had no opportunity under this new law to ever practice his profession. As far as the Federal Law on the Transport of Food Salt, Mrs Minister, is concerned, we would like to ask you to carry out in the future investigations to prove the safety of iodine, taking into account modern research methods, and to carry out these studies at European level in order to avoid health damage as far as possible or entirely possible. The law on midwives is also only a repair to ensure that it is adapted to the EU's needs. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: A bad situation!]] In this case, there are maladministrations which are becoming effective, because the practice that midwives and nurses had to acquire so far before they could be employed on a professional basis is now lacking. I think it should be considered whether it would be impossible for this professional group to acquire a practice in the context of an appointment of midwives with midwives. I believe that the acquisition of such a practice is very important. Mrs. Minister! I also have an amendment to the midwife law. It would be no problem to vote in favour of this amendment today. It is exclusively about § 52 para. 4: We ask you to delete these paragraphs without replacement. In fact, this is nothing but the collection of the Greminal Contribution, and there should really be a change in the interests of midwives in order to shorten the procedure and not push the bureaucracy up as it is at present. The deletion in § 52 would not change anything, would not cost schilling, but only bring a simplification. Even the amendment of the Medical Products Act and the AIDS Act is actually only the implementation of an EU directive. We shall also vote in favour of this. The patient charter of the country of Carinthia should be implemented throughout Austria, and this Charter should be signed with all the federal states. However, the criticism that remains true in relation to the patient charter is that it is not natural for children in the hospital to have the right to have their parents or other reference persons with them, although this is enshrined in the Charter of UNESCO. In practice, however, this will not be implemented at the moment, and it will not be the case in the future. I have tabled two requests to the Committee, one for the creation of a legal compensation fund for persons who have been damaged in relation to blood and blood products, and one for the conclusion of an insurance for the protection of blood and plasma donors. Unfortunately, this request has been rejected in committee. I very much regret this because I believe that this group of people should have the right to be insured accordingly. As far as Mrs Povysil's request is concerned, we shall vote in favour of the negative committee report, because her request does not mean anything other than the risk of social discrimination against HIV and AIDS patients. We believe that the prevention work of AIDS aid has proved itself very well in recent years and therefore this request is not necessary. To the doctors, I would like to say the following: My request will no longer be dealt with during this legislative period, but I promise you that we will bring this issue back to the table during the next legislative period. There are serious differences, and these must be eliminated, but unfortunately this is no longer to be done during this legislative period. With regard to restructuring in the field of acute beds in the hospital, we agree with the negative committee report because we believe there should be a change. Otherwise, Mrs Minister, the Committee has, as has been said, left little time to discuss the various points well. I would like us to be able to bring more quality to our committee work in the future or at the last Committee meeting in this legislative period, by setting fewer points on the agenda and providing more opportunity for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21304	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21325	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Towards the end of today's session, as we have heard several times, we want to adopt health legislation that will take another step in the major project of adapting Austrian law to the legal situation of the European Union. I mean the federal law on the establishment and exercise of the free movement of services of clinical psychologists and health psychologists or of psychotherapists from the European Economic Area. Since it is not generally possible to assume the equivalence of the qualifications acquired abroad of the psychologists or psychotherapists active in the field of health care and, in particular, there are no comparable legal regulations in other EEA Member States, the equivalence of the qualification in the course of an individual review of individual applications must of course be established before a professional registration in Austria. If serious shortcomings exist in comparison to the conditions required in our country for the admission to the profession exercise of the aforementioned professional groups, then to comply with the 1998 EEA Directive on the recognition of higher education diplomas, offer and carry out compensatory measures such as an adaptation course or an aptitude test. It should be noted that the applicant has to be given a choice between the adaptation course and the aptitude test as a compensatory measure. The more detailed formulation of the compensatory measures is set out in a regulation in order to be able to respond more flexibly to any need for change. It is very important that the Austrian training standards are not neglected here, because in the EEA there are only a few countries in which there is a state-recognised comparable training or regulated professional training as in Austria. Based on the migration of EEA nationals since 1991 – four psychologists, 20 psychotherapists – and in particular the report under the EU Directive for 1995 and 1996, according to which four psychologists and eight psychotherapists migrated, it is now realistic for the professional groups of clinical psychologists, health psychologists and psychotherapists to estimate that a total of ten persons per year will apply for professional registration. This means that administrative activities relating to professional registrations must be covered by existing resources and without additional costs. In view of this expected small number of applicants who want to come to Austria, there is in no way a risk of flooding or of disposing of local psychologists. It should also be noted that, of course, Austrian experts are also open to the EU. We will give our consent to the submission.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21366	I would like to say later that Mrs Haidlmayr has read a motion for an amendment which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the negotiations. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21412	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21433	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last Committee on Health, I have become quite clear from two facts: One is that the EU's legislation on adaptation, as always in advance, will be levelled against our Austrian standards in Brussels. The second fact is that useful policy measures are simply strangled out of purely party-political games. For example: You know we talked about the law of midwives. We need midwives to be trained in the hospital for three years now. If they want to become a freelancer, they have to work in the hospital for four years, i.e. another year. This makes sense because they work outside the hospital without a network and therefore need high-quality training in order to ensure the safety of their patients. The EU is now nagging this training period of midwives for three years. We have tabled a request on this subject and we have said: Okay, if it's only three years now, then in these three years, at least the fourth year without losing quality, you'll have to work with it in its contents. You have rejected this request again. I really must say that I simply cannot understand this irrational attitude towards our citizens and also the midwives, and of course we will also inform the associations of this vote. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But where are the real, current issues of our health care? – These are in the finance. We have tabled a request for the LKF to harmonise the LKF for a renewal of the cost calculation. They are in demographic development and the ageing of our population. We have submitted a request for the reorientation of cots in palliative beds. And – and this is a very important point – they are in the occurrence of new infections and unknown infectious diseases and in the increase of these infections. One of the most life-threatening infectious diseases of our century is now AIDS. We now have the advantage that since 1995 in Austria the AIDS disease rate and the AIDS mortality rate have declined, but we do not know exactly whether this is due to good prevention or to good therapy. There are no data on this, and there are no studies necessary for this. On the other hand, the number of HIV infections worldwide is increasing dramatically. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we are now calling for a much improved HIV notification system. The argument of discrimination, which has been repeated, is as follows: My social policy approach to avoiding discrimination is not to hide the disease and thus not to be able to get information about it and then not to treat it, but my or our social policy approach is to accept the people with his illness, which he can admit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Similar to HIV disease, it is also in the case of tuberculosis. The tuberculosis diseases of immigrants in Upper Austria or foreigners throughout Austria have increased by threefold. That is, we need mandatory TBC investigations on immigrants in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and not only with immigrants, but also with prostitutes, with homeless and with prisoners. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The mandatory TBC examinations must be carried out. This has nothing to do with xenophobia at all, but it is only about protecting the Austrian population. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, Mr Kostelka, tell me: Who, do you think, has made this claim? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Who?]] A liberal representative? What do you think? – It was the Social Democratic Councillor Ackerl, who for the first time defined our freedom demands for mandatory investigations by foreigners, of homeless, of prostitutes in a regulation in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: (To Abg. Dr. Kostelka turned) Now you get a ruffle!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: These Upper Austrian solidaritys...!]] I am very glad that you finally accept our demands from Social Democracy and, above all, that the anti-Foreign Affairs, which we are always accused of, is at last a clearly social-democratic issue. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I am glad that you finally find something positive in a Social Democratic! It doesn't happen so often!]] There too, this agreement, which we particularly like, is evident. Minister! It is too much party policy in this health policy. I would ask you to take these sensible measures, which we constantly encourage, but which you reject from us and then take on it yourself, as this example shows, at last.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21551	Mr Rasinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21573	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A friend of mine recently bled in America into a hospital after he had had a traffic accident, and the first thing he was asked there was: Which credit card do you have? – He was so outraged that he immediately left the hospital. This too is a situation that makes it clear that there is no patient law here. [[Abg. Applebeck: There is something like that in Austria too!]] With us, we think, everything is natural. In America, Bill Clinton has recently tried to codify patient rights, and has, of course, failed in the Senate. There it is tried as a patient’s right to stay in the hospital two days after birth or after breast cancer surgery. That's what it looks like elsewhere. Or: In America, doctors are paid for not offering investigations – the "famous" HMOs – and I think that is a misdevelopment. Clinton wants to restrict this, but he's gonna fail there too. That means you could say now: A patient's right charter is a no-na experience. I say it's a cross-sectional matter hidden in many laws. Often, insiders don't even know where something is. I think it is important to signal patients – and we all become patients once: There is something like that, in this there is already a sophisticated legal system. Secondly, I believe that references to foreign countries are very useful. There are many good points in the patient's right charter. However, it should also be pointed out that various patient rights in Austria are actually worthy of improvement. Minister! I mention here only the psychiatric care, which even the Court of Auditors has criticized, or I would point out, for example, that people are being discharged from time to time because of the LKF and are missing out on after-care. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Missing structures!]] It was only yesterday that I was at a meeting where ergotherapists and logos told me that after a stroke treatment in the hospital, post-care outside is often simply not possible because the therapists are missing. Also the increased pain therapy in difficult pain conditions is not possible outside de facto because there are no cash contracts. Or: the intimate atmosphere. The cots are still reality in Vienna and elsewhere. Guaranteeing the intimate atmosphere is also a patient's right. If we continue to go wild with the lawn mower and lock beds, I guarantee you: The cots will be more, and the intimate atmosphere will certainly not be better protected. Or: What about patient representatives who are required in the patient's Charter? For example, do they have a right of participation in health insurance? – They are not even heard there, not even ignored. I think you can do more with good will. You, Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch, shake your head, but it is! I think we should make common efforts to make a good system even better. What I like about the patient charter is that the patient is put at the centre – we will all become patients once – and that not only is the eternal speech heard from the economy. In my opinion, this has not lost as much in health as it is currently approved. But what I miss is that we should also talk about the patient's duties. Because it cannot be true that patients are subject to what a survey has been conducted. On the question "Who is responsible for your health?" have said the answers: 38 percent health insurance, 17 percent the minister and 16 percent of the patient themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21621	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21643	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I want to focus on the patient charter. I think it is worth considering them as an interesting way of presenting them. But I think that if you already create an instrument for patients and for patient rights, you should also put it in a bit with teeth. For example, Article 9 mentions the need to preserve the privacy of patients. It's nice to put it that way, just to make it more precise on the other side or to formulate a little more research. Article 15 provides that death in dignity should be allowed in stationary facilities. This death in dignity is subject to a very subjective perception, so I do not think one should be afraid to mention some things by name if one already writes a patient charter. In the chapter "Special provisions for children" we see much too laxe formulations, for example, in Article 25 para. 1 means: Taking into account the circumstances in question, unmistakable minors shall be allowed to accompany a reference person. – This is not so formulated as to provide for an accompaniment and so to speak, to install the spatial components that are necessary. Instead, it is only said that you should not prevent this if something goes wrong. But that's not enough for me. I had a short time ago to be in a hospital, together with a small child in a room where five children and four companions slept. You can imagine what that looked like. The child without a companion roared continuously, that was clear anyway, and the people in this room slept for only two hours. Whether this is the wishable value for children in the postoperative state, I dare to doubt. This means that rooms in which five sick persons are now inspected with their companions should actually be rebuilt, that not under any circumstances ten persons – and five of them – must sleep in one room. So this is something you should consider properly in practice. Similarly, Article 28 is without teeth, which provides that dependent children may be taught in the event of a longer stay in the establishment, in accordance with the provisions of school law. In other words, it is in principle a matter of arbitrariness whether the station manager or the hospital director develops a heart for this child and says: Okay, you'll be with us for half a year now, because your therapy is likely to last so long, so we need to build a corresponding teacher structure for you. – But this is a kann-determination, not a must-determination. I think that children – and this should be determined – if they are able to follow a class, from a certain number of weeks in a hospital have a right to school care. But it should not be said that this could be made possible. In my opinion, this is necessary for these children, because they are "out of office" from the teaching anyway. I can tell you: For children who are in the hospital for a very long time, a lesson is actually one of the trickleaders they need in order not to remove completely into another world. These are often very necessary methods of communication, which makes them in a positive competition with their schoolmates. This means that the schoolmates then come and carry out joint tasks with the sick children. For this, wonderful opportunities have been developed, including in America. There you have computers in sick rooms of children, and the children have partly participated in the class from the hospital bed via the Internet, via computer. In this way they have been able to participate, and this has also become visually possible by the creation of a corresponding connection. These are fascinating opportunities that have been developed in America. I would be pleased if we could take it in Austria, too, because I believe that the class community will thereby develop a certain responsibility towards this student or this student in terms of how to better deal with this difficult phase for a single member of the class community. We should look at such models, and we should really take such models to heart. I believe that this would be a constructive contribution. The patient charter is actually just the beginning of a dialogue that we should conduct. We should be much more precise, and we should also trust to say what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. As a result, communication between caring and treating staff on the one hand and patients on the other would be much less misunderstanding, and much less frustration would be built up. I'd like to.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21698	The next speaker is Mrs Buder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21719	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! With all the criticism, which sometimes sounds from the speaker's mouth: If you hear Mr Rasinger's examples here, you are glad to be a patient in Austria. The government proposals to be dealt with today in 1758 and 1759 have already been comprehensively addressed by Mr Kaipel. This will bring it into line with EU law. The high level of qualification required in Austria must be demonstrated. If the training is not equivalent, the qualifications must be demonstrated by training courses or examinations. In the case of training in Austria, there is no change for EU members, as the exercise of the profession is not bound by Austrian citizenship. Since people can choose the therapists freely, it is not likely that a German-speaking Austrian, for example, will go to a Portuguese-speaking psychologist. Therefore, the condition of appropriate knowledge of the German language is unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Government template 1777 also adapts the midwives law and the health and health care law to EU law. Thus, a one-year hospital appointment before the establishment is no longer necessary. That many midwives want to lead births right after school without greater safety net, I doubt. These midwives will first take care of care tasks, although training is already very practical. The wish of the mid-term panel to draw up the membership contribution once a year at the beginning of the year is a relief, but not a member-friendly one. I am thinking only of the empty pockets after Christmas in January or, for example, of the death of a member in March. That is why the Federal Government must deal with it. Mr Pittermann and Mr Dr Leiner have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject at the Committee meeting. I am not of the opinion of Mrs Motter that this is an eye-catching. That is why we will also reject Mr Haidlmayr's amendment. I am convinced that the Federal Minister and her officials will find a good solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Application 1084/A concerns the amendment of the Pharmacy Chamber Act. The ASTRÄG 1997 allowed the Free Trade Chambers to opt out their members from the statutory social security scheme. The pharmacy chambers are now making late use of this. Not our approval of the Committee has found the motion for a resolution 1001/A (E). The infection of the blood plasma donors from July 1986 to July 1987 would certainly have been to prevent even if one-off devices were used properly, as they were then standard. One-time devices do not allow infection with hepatitis C. If there is a guilty behavior, compensations are usually always payable. As much as I know, the blood donors of the Red Cross have not been infected. A brief comment on HIV reporting. I do not consider a mandatory examination in the mother-child passport to be a target. All mothers becoming mothers are told that a test is beneficial for them and the child, so that it is usually carried out. I believe that testing people on entering HIV is a problem in principle, as everyone can infect himself everywhere. Otherwise, an Austrian study could be conducted, and every three months all people living in our country could study HIV. This would certainly blow the frame and break nothing. As much is known, no more foreigners in Austria suffer from HIV infections than nationals. Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats will also be able to prevent discrimination in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21775	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21796	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with some of the legislative instruments in question in a short time, first of all with the prohibition of iodine additives in the salt which is now to be removed. We liberals have expressed our concerns in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as Mr Pumberger and Mr Povysil have explained here. I should therefore like to repeat to the public what I said in committee. I think that this matter of law cannot be regarded as completely unproblemable in view of the changed habits of consumption of Austrians. With regard to young people and their habits of life, especially in food, it must be assumed that, as large-scale foods do not need to be iodine and are not full-salt under such conditions, there may be a corresponding undersupply. It should not be forgotten that, especially with regard to Chernobyl problems and recent difficulties, the roof cover of the catacombs present there, including the reactor, has now become so close that three different variants are being discussed in Europe for renovation – in the near future more radiation outbreak is expected and therefore the situation in Europe for thyroid glands will be again problematic. – Therefore, this law. The corresponding follow-up studies on the effects of iodine and iodine in the salt of food should now be undertaken seriously in order to have actually been available in the event of a disaster and not, just as in the case of the Chernobyl disaster at that time, to follow the events. Minister! I would ask that what is promised in the Committee be realized in the future in the appropriate form. I would like to thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, for the presentation 1777, which deals with the liberal midwives, in Article II, paragraph 65. 9 The basis has now been created for opening up a new door to health professions not only to training but also to professional opportunities, with the planned high-school courses in the field of vocational education and training. I can expressly thank you for this, not only because my federal state has two requests to the University Council on this matter. I also hope and know that your promises from the past are positive here, because a corresponding improvement in the curriculum will now also give you the opportunity to reach a positive adoption at the next University Council. But also the other federal states will thank God in these fields of activity. Thank you for that! In relation to this, we call for a separate vote, which expressly states § 65 para. 9 includes in such a way as to clearly signal our agreement to the amendments contained in this legislative matter in the second reading here in plenary. The other themes of this comprehensive package have already been highlighted by my previous speakers from my group. I would just like to say thank you very much for the fact that the constitutional deficit resulting from the retroactive entry into force of the Blood Security Act has finally been corrected. We have seen that the law-making process of a corresponding campaign by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has almost failed. But finally, the promised repair that we are doing here today has made it possible for us to implement this repair in good time also in Austria. So thank you very much for the fact that blood security has not failed in the constitutional clause of retroactive entry, but that this repair is being carried out today!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21848	Thank you, honourable Member. I would like to add the following: At the beginning of this debate, Mr President, Mr Pumberger presented two motions for resolutions which were submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure. However, it is not possible to communicate this and to include these applications in the negotiations. I would like to take this up and point out that both of the motions for resolutions are the subject of the debate. The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21876	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to make a few contributions to the points which are now being debated in the light of the period ahead and the agenda items which are still ahead of us. Today, the opinion has been expressed here that health and social policy has too much party policy in itself. This is a kind of consideration that everyone may have for himself; I reject it. I believe that health and social policy is a very political matter. We do more than one third of our gross social product in this area. Social policy processes are being developed, managed and initiated in this area. That is why it is quite right for policy to have to deal with it. The same is true of these agenda items. The patient charter has been addressed several times today. In principle, it is to be welcomed that a federal state agrees with the Federal Government in accordance with § 15a of the B-VG. We're less concerned about who sign this Charter – whether it's Haider, whether he's called an outsider, or if he might have called it Zernatto, that's not the question – but rather about us being a help to people and a positive development. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Or Donabauer!]] That is why we believe this measure to be reasonable and we also support it. However, I believe that patient rights can also be seen from the point of view that there is still a lack of information, which is a great difficulty. We are certainly not going to join Mr Pumberger's motion for a resolution because Mrs Bundesminister is being asked to do so in the XX. This is an agreement to be reached with all the federal states during the legislative period. This is not possible with realistic consideration. In such a short time, you can't enforce anything productive. I also believe that the need for this is limited. Each federal state should find solutions that are compatible with itself. I'm dealing with something more important. I would like to stress that we should also strive to raise standards in hospitals. If you make sick visits and still have rooms with six, eight, ten, twelve and what I know is how many beds I have to say: This does not in any way correspond to today's time. I believe that we must also make an effort in this respect, without overdoing the hospitals, as Mrs Gredler said, for example, by requiring the provision of the Internet for patients, and what do I know? All of this can happen on a case-by-case basis, but cannot become the standard equipment of hospitals. Point two: Amendment 875/A (E) by Mr Povysil deals with reducing the number of long-term beds by converting them to palliative beds. In principle, there is nothing to do with this, except that without a need study it is not useful. These things have to be worked out very thoroughly, extensive preparations have to be made and the whole thing adjusted to the needs. I am very sure that we will take action here. It is also right and useful to include the ÖBIG and also the hospital carriers. At any rate, we will not give our assent in such haste. I would like to comment on this motion in a twofold way. First of all, I do not like the request at all that the last part is about a "quality leap". I can imagine, Mrs Povysil, that we are talking about an improvement in the situation in the last phase of life or similar, but "quality leap" is, in my view, so technological that I think every other term is more appropriate in this unfortunate situation in which people are present. Secondly, I would remind you that with this request you have carried the following: You thought you were among the most liberals of the best, the best group, because you made most of your requests. This certainly cannot be measured by the quality of a group or a club. The third request concerns the LKF system. You think the publication presented would be nothing but a report on the world record in the hospital lie. We have to reject that. It has been shown that the changeover has reduced the duration of the stay. I think it would be useful to take approximation measures in this respect, but we need to know that we are dealing with different legal institutions and that different structures exist. It is not easy to say that all must carry out their accounting according to the same templates and principles. The LKF has proved itself, and we are in the process of developing it further. I think we are on a good overall way to manage our hospitals well and keep them on a high standard.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21911	Mr Lacner spoke with a voluntary time limit of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e21933	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me also comment on two opposition requests in the short term. On the one hand, it is about the performance-oriented hospital financing, where you are calling for a change in the cost accounting regulation. Mrs Povysil! It is true, of course, that the 1979 cost bill is no longer necessarily up to date, but it is also true that the legal authorities have, of course, recovered themselves and developed cost accounting models which produce quite comparable data. Nevertheless, in September 1998, the Structural Commission discussed this issue and agreed that the cost accounting currently practised should be reviewed, adapted to the state of the art of science and, that is particularly important, expanded to include a uniform cost collection bill. It is clear that this does not happen immediately. You have to teach experts who need the necessary... Yes, exactly! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] However, we have already recognized that it would not have necessarily required this request. But I'll tell you he's very pleasant. Yeah, you're right about that. Similarly, Mr Donabauer has already mentioned this with regard to the request for restructuring of hospital and acute beds to Palliative stations. This is also the right thing to do, which Mr Donabauer has already suggested, but the possibility for this area has already been created in the 1999 ÖKAP. [[Abg. Dr. Povysil: Then you can agree, Mr. Cot, if you are of the same opinion anyway!]] Mrs. Colleague! I do not have to agree on something that has already been understood. [[Abg. Gaugg: Thank you for speaking!]] Yes, but I did not need your request, Mr Gaugg. You know, we're so well-known, that's what we've got on our own. It certainly does not need your request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Donabauer, too, has already indicated... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: At least you have no inferiority complex, Mr. Cot. I like that!]] No, I certainly don't have it, I've never been equipped with it. I am relatively happy that I cannot show it. – But as Mr Donabauer has already suggested, it also needs to be here... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: It's nice to talk to good people!]] That's right. See, Mr Schöggl, I am glad that I have received praise from you. You always appreciate that. That means we have to do a lot more. As I said, this is an inventory. It is about characterising hospice care, palliative medical care with regard to the objectives to be achieved. It is about the description of the standards and, finally, the assessment of quantitative needs. That means that there is still a lot to be done, and then this is taken into account as far as this is concerned. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22020	Mrs Konrad spoke with a three-minute limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22050	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on the conditions under which psychologists, psychotherapists and psychotherapists from other countries in Austria can exercise their profession, then this is an EU adjustment, but then we will do so, because we need high-quality psychological and psychotherapist care in our country. Through numerous psychotherapeutic training institutions and university institutes of psychology, the human resources are provided for good care in our country. I think that, as the home of psychoanalysis, we also have a special historical obligation to do so. It must therefore become increasingly easier and more self-evident to use psychological or psychotherapeutic assistance and support if someone needs and wants it. In addition to personal obstacles, which often have a social background, there are also structural obstacles to adequate, above all, psychotherapeutic care as we wish. It is therefore necessary that the contract between health insurance institutions and psychotherapists is quickly decided so that psychotherapy is possible at the time of illness. It is not in my group's interest that more than one billion schillings are currently spent annually on medically prescribed psychopharmaceuticals and, in comparison, only 250 million schillings for prescribed psychotherapy. This is not a permanent solution in the interests of patients, nor does it meet the objectives of our health policy. Ladies and gentlemen! My group will therefore make every effort and make every effort to ensure that discussions between health insurance institutions and the psychotherapy association quickly achieve a positive outcome for the benefit of people.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22093	It has now come up with a report by Mrs Hostasch, Federal Minister. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me just a few comments on this debate and on some specific points. It was claimed in the room that those templates, including EU adaptations, would be levelled downwards. I would like to show by one or two examples that it is not a levelling down if, for example, the Psychologists Act requires and implements the creation of a basis for a review procedure on the equivalence of foreign education and thus a quality assurance is carried out and, accordingly, our standards can be maintained. It is not a levelling down if the midwife's law provides for a professional maturity test to allow access to midwife training, or if access to vocational training is facilitated, which means that there are more opportunities for work in this area. I just wanted to bring these few examples – you could even mention others – to show that these projects are likely to be further developed and not levelling down. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was addressed by Mrs Povysil, among other things, the question of the reporting obligation of HIV infected persons or HIV patients. However, I should also like to report to the plenary a little bit about the discussion we had in the Committee, in which the liberals were also called for, in cases where a mother is infected with HIV, this can be anchored in the mother-child passport. I believe that this approach alone already shows the direction in which the intentions of an extended reporting and recording go, and it was right that the debate has shown that these considerations cannot be accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler! They have addressed patient rights and the patient charter, among other things. Without wishing to de-olidarize with my colleague Mother, I can remind you that it was on 20 June. A debate on the Hospital Law was held in October 1993 and the Liberal Forum held by the honourable Member: "In fact, this law contains reform proposals, which we also welcome and support from the Liberal Forum. These regulations and improvements include, in addition to the anchoring of patient rights and their preservation by installing independent patient representatives, the training of non-medical personnel, supervision and regular service meetings between medical and non-medical staff..." – the text goes on then. So there was already a clear commitment to the measures and not this removal – which I at least felt to be such – as it was expressed in your contribution today. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The debate also mentioned the question of precautionary medicine and the question of lifestyle. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that my place and I have been able, since last year, to give the health promotion law and the health fund to the subject of health promotion a greater priority than before, and thus to network existing ones. However, I believe that it should be noted that lifestyle is just one element of health and that there are many other factors that affect health. I am thinking here, for example, of the working world, of the environmental influences or of the socio-economic circumstances. Please write it to the advanced hour if I now make a comment on the factors as we find them here in our House: If we want to talk about healthy working and lifestyle here, we should also consider whether we create for ourselves those conditions that bring us to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22183	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Dr. Pumberger spoke on an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please start with the facts to which you then present your version.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22210	Mr President. The Federal Minister has claimed that the opinion of the opposition, and specifically of me, that the Psychologists' Act, the midwives' Act and other laws adopted in the context of EU adaptation lead to a levelling down is not correct. She would prove the opposite. I am indeed correct in saying that the law of midwives is about because one year less training than a freelance... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is not a correct position! This is a political opinion, but no corrective position!]] Mrs Schmidt! I understand you want to take advantage of the opportunity now...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22237	Member, please correct now, and do not be irritated by interlocutory calls.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22252	She can't mess in for a long time! That the absence of this one year training under the supervision of an experienced midwife is a clear loss of quality, which is also claimed – since this is also the case with other MTD professions – by the association of diplomat ergotherapists who determines: [[Abg. May. Barmüller:... looked too deep in the glass?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This has nothing to do with an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Smolle: Where is the correction?]] Under Austrian conditions, this leads to a clear loss of quality, which is neither in the interest of our professional association and its members nor in the interest of patients who need therapies. [[Abg. Smolle: Where is the correction?]] In addition...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22325	Mr President, this is no longer an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's not it all the time!]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] No, the word is finished! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[I should like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Pumberger.]] There is now no more word message. The debate is closed. [[Unrest with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Rasinger! He's right, gal?]] There is no need for a final word on the part of the report. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1758 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Those who agree to the draft in third reading may also give a sign. - That's the majority. – The draft was also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1759 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this in third reading may also announce this with a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1774 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. That's the majority. The draft was adopted by the majority at second reading. We shall vote in third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt of the supplements in 1982. Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Motter and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. In addition, honourable Member has power. The main request for a separate vote is made. I am therefore going to vote first on the supplementary proposal referred to, then on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Motter and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 7 and a corresponding amendment to the numbering in Article I. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on Article II, paragraph 7, paragraph 65. 9 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees here may give a sign. – This body is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is for the draft in third reading may give a sign. – Here, too, I note the majority acceptance at third reading. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Pumberger and others on health professionals, trustworthiness and German knowledge. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the 1982 Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this resolution may give a sign. – unanimously adopted. (E 188.) We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1778 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill may give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may be able to make this known. The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. We now come to the vote on the request of the Health Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the contested agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act (Patent Charter) in 1824. Whoever is in favour of this approval may give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The approval shall be granted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on the conclusion of agreements under Article 15a B-VG with all the federal states. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the supplements in 1985. Whoever agrees to this bill may give a sign. – Consent is unanimous. The draft was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and receipt of the supplements in 1986. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – Consent is unanimous. The draft was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 1987 report of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. – Mrs Langthaler, how can I interpret your voting behaviour? – Good, that is, accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 1988 report of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 1991 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report is largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its 1992 report of the supplements. Whoever is to give a sign? - That's the majority. A majority of the information takes place. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 1993 report of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. A majority of the information takes place. Now we are voting on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its 1994 report of the supplements. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 1995 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. 35. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1063/A (E) by Dr Elisabeth Pittermann, Dr Günther Leiner, Theresia Haidlmayr, Dr Brigitte Povysil and Comrades concerning § 17 Reproduction Medicine Act (1989 of Supplements) 36. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1002/A by Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades on the amendment of the Reproductive Medicine Act (BGBl. No. 275/1992) (1990 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22517	We now come to points 35 and 36 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. I give the floor to Mrs Pittermann as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22545	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Anyone who has treated young tumors knows what it means to tell a young person who is full of hope and fear to visit a doctor in a very short time about his severe, potentially fatal illness that needs immediate accurate diagnosis and rapid therapy, a therapy that can lead to sterility forever. In order to have children, seeds must quickly be donated and stored in a deep - cooling manner. However, we need to amend the In vitro Fertilisation Act. Today, this young, desperate, troubled person, who spends his seed in a special place under unpleasant conditions, learns that he is frozen for only a year and then destroyed. After a year, no one's sure if the patient's healed. After a year these young people often don't have a life partnership or want to be young and without a job yet no children. The Board of Directors of the Austrian Society of Haematooncology dealt with this issue at its last meeting and concluded that the psychological pressure for this group of patients is very high, that one should not increase this pressure by setting time limits in the form, that the period, until their expiry, of seeds or ova or frozen ovarian tissue must be discarded in years, but that it is wiser to end the storage with 45. or 50. A year of life, an age in which natural fertilization would be possible in a healthy human being. A sick person needs longer for his vocational training, later finds a partnership, and takes time for everything to go in order. Considering that even healthy people realize their child’s desire only in mid - 30, the realization of this child’s desire is not to be required of a sick person under time pressure. In order to be able to live half a normal life, women must be hormonally substituted. In the near future, one will probably perform this substitution with ovaries. To have to destroy this tissue would be a serious damage to the patients. Since today more and more young people are being cured with malignant diseases and then the question of normal family life is raised and hematoecologists are obliged to draw patients' attention to the possibility of in vitro fertilization, it is urgently necessary to extend the storage period. The medical understanding of the specialist society that I belong to, and also my own correspondingly, I am against a limit to one, five or ten years, but for a limit to a certain age of life or for annihilation of these fertile cells with the death of the donor or donor. I very much hope that the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs and the Federal Minister for Justice will forward to the National Council a legislative proposal that takes account of these aspects. The affected patients, but also the treating doctors, will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22591	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22612	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pittermann has already said very correctly that those who survive a severe cancer or system disease react with total intelligibility when the state is presumptuous to say: Your ova or your seeds may only be stored for one year. I think that in a situation in which people have experienced a hard fate, it is actually an arbitrary act. But he's got history. Why does he have history? – The Reproductive Medicine Act is not a bad law; it was simply the progress of medicine that overshadowed us there. It was not possible to carry out this deep freezing until recently, because one was afraid that the freezing of these cells would result in a crystallization and thus an extermination of these cells. Today we can freeze whole ovaries. The progress of medicine just overtakes us. The reproductive medicine law is not bad. For example, it forbids cloning, a development that was not yet predictable five years ago. That is to say, we are dealing with a law which must constantly be contrary to medical progress. I therefore believe that we should listen to the experts, and Mrs Pittermann is a truly excellent expert in this field. But not only should we listen to experts, but we should also listen to our human voice and say: Not all that lawyers give us is the measure of all things. Perhaps, as the Englishman says, we should simply "common sense" allow what is human and what makes sense. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: "House mind" I would say not "common sense"!]] I believe that a Parliament which wants to send signals of life-long life for cancer diseases to such people should quickly adopt a legislative amendment based on expert opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It doesn't cost anything, it doesn't hurt anyone, and it's a lot more justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22654	Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22675	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To reproduce itself is and remains in all living beings theme number one. This should not mean, however, constantly planting each other, and that is why we finally have a four-party proposal on this subject in Parliament today. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: A party is missing!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Maybe the other one is more beautiful!]] That's quite a possibility. How did this request come about? – I did on 26 May. In the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in November 1998, a request was submitted to the Directive on reproductive medicine, which dealt with the overall problem of a law which currently provides for the destruction of seeds and ova intended for artificial fertilization after a year. What does that mean for the patient? – Imagine a young man of childbearing age getting testicular cancer. However, he wants to have children with his partner and therefore, before treating his illness, which makes him infertile, freeze his seeds to use them after ending his therapy, from which he will hopefully or with great statistical probability also be healthy. However, he cannot because the therapy lasts longer and the seeds therefore need to be discarded. So the whole procedure was for nothing. Or a second example: A young woman can't have a child in a natural way. She undergoes artificial insemination with hormonal stimulation, with egg withdrawal, becomes pregnant and receives a child. But now she'd like a second child. She can't get it in a normal way, but would like to have a second. Unfortunately, however, after all the tests and after the known nine - month pregnancy, the one - year period is now the one - year period, and in turn it can no longer use these ova cells. That is to say, it must now, on the one hand, undergo the whole physical and on the other, the mental load of a new artificial fertilization, and it must also bear the total cost of it – you know that a one-time attempt costs about 30 000 S. My request to take over costs or to ensure, Madam Minister, that the costs are taken over in any way, was postponed in the Committee on Social Affairs, as is the case with all opposition requests, which cannot be accepted by a party political party, but which cannot be rejected on a socio-political basis. They get a "primary first class", i.e. they are postponed. But that means to conjure up these women, let this whole procedure go over it again and pay the whole thing again, and that is simply unacceptable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The four-party proposal now before us is a partial solution to a subject that will continue to concern us very much in the future. For the benefit of the people suffering from evil disease, I also support this partial solution in this request. Unfortunately, however, it is not a comprehensive and forward-looking legislation. We liberals have a partial solution with you in good case decisions. But it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, to prove to the citizens that it is not just about party-political plantings, but really about the concern of the patient.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22736	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. You still have a speaking time of 19 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22793	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll do it very briefly. On the joint four-party proposal from SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Freemans concerning the Reproduction Medicine Act, which has already been fully established by the doctors here in the High House and which we will agree with, I would like to say: We Liberals agree that an extension is necessary. We therefore took 20th place. On 1 January 1999, the Commission submitted its own application with the same objective. However, the difference is that our request aims to provide for a derogation from the one-year period for cancer patients and patients with disturbances in the production of seeds or the transport of seeds in a separate paragraph of the reproductive medicine law, in which this period is extended to a maximum of five years. In contrast to this is the four-party resolution, which unfortunately is only a clear statement of intent and which fears a delay of sensible measures. Mr. Dr. Rasinger! Why do you delay when it costs nothing and when it is urgently necessary? I am therefore pleased that our request, which provides for a change to the reproductive medicine law and is therefore largely and concrete, has been re-examined to the judicial committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22829	Mr Haidlmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22850	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Reproductive Medicine Act is far too delicate to bring about a change of law in an ad hoc procedure. We must be aware that this debate must continue, but not only here by our Members. I think it is very necessary to hold a hearing on this issue during the next legislative period. It must also include medical-ethical aspects in the discussion. I would like us to discuss this issue not only at the end of the next legislative period, but also at the beginning, and to carry out a decent hearing, in which experts also participate, so that we can achieve a common solution that is really portable. But it would have been the wrong approach to decide now somehow a law where no party is fully aware of how long the deadline should be, what period is too short and what period is too long. I believe that there is a need for a comprehensive discussion, including medical and ethical aspects, because it is only in this way that we can achieve a law that really covers the interests of all, and which is also medical and ethical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22884	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. I set the clock for a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22905	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need to clarify this now because Mr Pittermann and Mr Rasinger, but also Mr Povysil, have done so to a sufficient extent. Maybe there's another clarification: We were unable to agree to the two opposition requests, by Mr Motter and Mr Povysil, in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because they contained only a limited regime, namely a regulation relating to the issue of storage periods. There was no regulation or approach to admissibility, namely when and under what conditions such medical reproduction may be carried out. As a general rule, the following are: According to current legislation, it is about overcoming an acute, present-day reproductive inability of a certain couple. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that we must have a fundamental discussion on this which the Greens have already mentioned, a discussion which needs to be continued for several reasons: On the one hand, we are dealing with problem areas, which we must also discuss in constitutional terms, in the national field. It would be necessary to clarify whether the exclusion of single women can continue to be sustained by the methods of medically supported reproduction. It is also a question of whether equal-sex couples should continue to be excluded from medically supported reproduction, or whether they should see discrimination against homosexual partnerships. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: "Bravo"! Maier, you've lost your mind now!]] It would also be necessary to discuss the issue of lead motherhood. But the main problem, ladies and gentlemen, I see in a "reproductive tourism" on the Internet. Check out the offers you can get online at the moment! These are offers which cannot be reconciled with the Austrian legal situation. We're looking beyond the electronic reality here. What we need is to create a framework for human rights in Europe. At the same time, however, we must also have the debate in the national field. Finally, I will read to you an offer of "European Babies" from England. In the text it says: We are exclusively concerned with family similarity. See, you have a piano virtuoso, for example, as a man unable to witness. The woman is totally unmusical. If now the seed of an unmusical donor is used, the child will most likely never have music in the blood. With a musical donor, the chance is much higher. – I could deliver x other quotations to what is currently being offered on the web. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to intervene in this respect, in particular at European level, in the field of human rights. I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to hold a more open, liberal discussion in the national field.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22941	Mrs Reitsamer has now come to speak. Similarly, a 3 minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e22962	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, I worked on the reproductive medicine law. We have not made it easy, we are very careful Weighed for and against in order to avoid abuses in this particularly sensitive issue. What § 17 para. I think we all did not think of the problem that has already been raised at the time. A doctor from Salzburg mentioned this to us a long time ago. My predecessor, Mrs Primaria Pittermann, spoke of a storage period up to the age of normal reproductive capacity or until the death of the person concerned. I think that this is much more useful than a term of five or more years. In this context, however, we should not only deal with § 17 but also with § 2, namely the admissibility. In this respect, the following will be considered – I quote the law currently in force –: "A medically supported reproduction is permitted only in a marriage or similar community." I'm asking: When does it have to exist? When taken, when used? – This requires a very clear definition, as the affected group of persons is sometimes still very young at the time of illness or onset of treatment and rarely has a stable life partnership – if these people already have a partner at all. I think that it is not necessary to change § 17 from § 2 but to consult and negotiate these points together.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23002	There is also a speech by Mr Pumberger. You want to get out at 1 minute? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23032	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would just like to criticize the allocation practice in the committee. The opposition applications on the same subject, Reproductive Medicine Act, the Health Committee is assigned to the Justice Committee and for the four-party application the same matter concerning – only without a period of time – the government parties are involved in an assignment proposal for the Health Committee. I think that there is a certain intention here, namely that if they are good, they should be withdrawn from opposition applications so that they do not have to be rejected. So they are simply assigned to a committee which is not at all competent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23074	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the 1989 Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this resolution to be a sign of approval. This resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 189.) Now we are voting on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its 1990 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This information is also taken unanimously. It was adopted unanimously. I agree with the motion for a resolution 1002/A to the Committee on Justice. 37. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal 1103/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Labour Contracts Act, the Labour Law, the Labour and Social Court Law, the Ausländerbehördesgesetz and the Federal Employment Act 1997 (1970 of the Supplements) 38. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal 1102/A by Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr Gottfried Feurstein and comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (1971 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23157	We now come to points 37 and 38 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Gaugg, the first speaker to speak. Free time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23184	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This change of law is the implementation of an EU directive, which is important in so far as it is one of the few directives which is implemented in a timely manner and is still subject to its legal treatment within the originally planned time-limit. It is interesting to note in this connection that the social partners of the governmental parties in the Committee on Social Affairs have indicated their support for the amendment that I am about to make – the request of the Members of Parliament, Mr Haupt and Mr Gaugg, concerning the three-month withdrawal of the "Monday privilege". But as we are now hearing, there is now at least one of the government partners no longer. That is why I would like to call for at least the social politicians in the ranks of the government parties who want to take on responsibility for Austrian workers in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment to approve this amendment, because it is a major improvement for local workers, because a three-month period would result in an interruption of Austrian social rights. Therefore, once again this appeal: I do not think that it would be too bad for the Austrian economy to be able to do this for a month – it might take a little courage, Mr Feurstein. – but the approval would be given. A bit strange is also the passus, according to which errors are to be assessed according to the Foreign Employment Act regardless of the number of employed workers. This is also a point that I believe should be taken more closely. Finally, the domestic economy as a whole should comply with the legal requirements. It is important, however, whether there is a breach with a foreign worker or whether several of them are affected and it is more or less already Usus. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Should the members of the government agree to this amendment, we would also decide to give our consent to this EU directive. The second point in the agenda is that, in the event of a loss of emergency aid, self-insurance should be facilitated because of too high a maintenance. This is a real step in itself. It would have been fairer if those who fall out of this system would also have a free insurance in the future, as is the case with the unemployed. This is apparently not possible. But since this decision is a correct step in the right direction, we will vote in favour of this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23262	The amendment tabled by Mr Gaugg is, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mrs Reitsamer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23286	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to the title of the law – employment contract law adaptation law, labour law law, labour law and social court law, foreigners employment law, federal procurement law – that sounds all-embracing. But we're actually just dealing with a torso. In fact, we should decide today on the law on the fight against black-and-collar work. It was negotiated for a long time. It was signaled consensual in all directions, and it was accorded with except for trifles. But then we got guided by the media that we were guilty of failure. In fact, however, there is a conflict between the ÖAAB and the Chamber of Commerce: What was too much was not enough for the other – and vice versa. This must also be said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that this law does not come into force today is not only to the detriment of the workers concerned but also to the burden of correct action by employers. There is a distortion of competition. If Mr Feurstein says in the "Parliament magazine" that the draft law lacks positive incentives to prevent and reduce undeclared work, then we must let it be broken down on the tongue, ladies and gentlemen. Does he now think that there should be premiums so that a law is not interrupted or broken? Or are we still dealing with sanctions when laws are not complied with? At any rate, we had to bring back a very important law. I can only hope that this will not remain so until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. Today, we are essentially making EU adjustments. I would like to highlight the liability of the general contractor. We all know that professionals are being leased more and more today. Within ten years, the number has tripled. 20 000 Austrian workers in more than 700 leavers are affected. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a need for clear rules in order to ensure correct procedures in this regard. The liability of the general contractor is certainly an important step in this regard. I have to say that on Monday's privilege and for the reduction of three months to one month – the request of the Group of the Party of European Socialists – I must say: I honestly admit that I have overlooked this. The signals in the Committee were such, as Mr Gaugg correctly said, that there should be a positive decision at second reading. Unfortunately, God now remains with the maintenance of three months, although I cannot recognize any objective authority for it. I can still say a sentence on the ASVG proposal. We hereby close a gap in the health insurance system for those women who have no emergency aid claim and therefore no health insurance because of maintenance. You now have the opportunity to get sick with very small contributions, which I consider to be immensely important to women's politics.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23338	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Your club still has a 17-minute speaking time. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23360	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would first of all like to turn to the request to the ASVG, because it is so harmless, but only a follower of a very unpleasant matter. I would remind this House that it was the administrative court that found that for months, over a long period, a law was completely misappropriated. Women were not granted emergency aid, although the clear provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act did exist because maintenance payments were not interpreted as income within the meaning of the Unemployment Insurance Act. The AMS has done this anyway, in the opinion that it will be so right. The Administrative Court has found that the law has been misinterpreted for months. What's the government doing? What did the government parties do? – You have retroactively repaired this with a novel by taking back these women’s legal claims! On this occasion, it occurred that these women did not have health insurance claims either. We had discussed this at the time, and a com mittee was subsequently made. The result of this Committee remark is the request we have to make today. It now proposes a succinct solution, namely the solution that the women who are entitled to emergency aid on and on the grounds that they are entitled to emergency aid are not paid this emergency aid because they have a maintenance claim. I must add to my understanding that all of this is below the poverty line. These women do not remain insured because of the fact that they have a right to emergency aid, which is not paid out only because of the maintenance claim, nevertheless, no, they are granted the opportunity to insure themselves voluntarily. It has been noted that this could become unacceptable because of the amounts to be paid at that time, therefore a special right has been created that these self-insurance contributions should be low. However, it is necessary for this amount to be determined in each case to be examined in terms of actual conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Once a year! Dr. Kier, we made it clear: once a year!]] Those who stand a bit alive know that the real conditions can change from month to month. Unfortunately, we have to observe many times in the reality of life with regard to the people who are subject to maintenance rights but who are not paid regularly, so that their real economic situation is extremely variable, very uncertain and so on, even if the maintenance is paid. We have discussed this in the Committee, but this has found little understanding. We were told that these women do not have to pay more than 204 s per month. I note that, apparently only because other proposals have come from the opposition, one has chosen the path of voluntary self-insurance, which at least leads to the fact that, at a very short time, contributions must now be evaluated, re-established, increased or reduced, so that in the worst case, a monthly runout starts. I wanted to say this from this pult. We will not agree to this procedure, although we are glad that at least this possibility exists – I do not want to be misunderstood – but it should have been discussed not only in the committee, in the silent chamber, but also here the light of the parliamentary protocols, that what you are doing here is a cynical bureaucracy and is talking about a social attitude that seeks to be the same. At the same time, it is argued with self-confidence that these women themselves are now allowed to "insure themselves", although, if you had not changed the law retroactively, they would have kept their emergency aid claim and would therefore have been insured in such a way. So you've taken people a claim – and now you promise You yourself, because you're asking these people to cash out so they're at least sickly insured! I think that's really -- I don't want to negotiate a call for order, but almost there would be an expression of force there -- it's a little sluggish; this expression might be going on right now.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23395	Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23417	Mr President. Three points on the debate we have held so far. First point: It is true that an EU directive is being implemented, but basically, it is a law which was adopted on 17 November. It has been decided by Red, Blue and Green on November 1995, the Anti-Fraud Act, which has turned out to be a law that violates an EU directive. It turned out to be a law on the basis of which infringement proceedings against Austria have been initiated. [[Abg. Steibl: This!]] This is not just an implementation of an EU directive, but we need to fix a major mistake of the blue-green-red coalition here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: A disaster!]] That's why it's basically about this correction. Mrs Reitsamer! Yes, we are confessing that we have also not approved the law on the fight against black-and-collar work in the proposed form. I'll tell you once again: With 200 customs officials and criminal regulations, you will not change this situation at all. For this reason, we have not agreed to the law and have prevented it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I firmly believe that professionals are right to refer to this law you wanted, as it was then. In November 1995, Dr. Kier referred to the anti-abuse law. He said at the time – the Liberal Group did not agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – in relation to the anti-abuse law as follows: "It's a stamp law." [[Abg. Kiss: I remember!]] It was Mr. Paul Kiss who repeatedly noted in the Minutes: At the time, there were ten votes on this law, Mr Pumberger, and they always voted in favour of red, blue and green. So you've caused us a law that we've been working on for five years now. I am very glad that we can finally implement this law as provided for in the EU directive, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Gaugg: With the three months it's not true!]] A sentence on the three months you have referred to, Mr Gaugg: Yes, there are arguments that speak for your request. I have also mentioned these arguments in committee and would like to remind you now that there are these arguments. But there are also arguments that speak for the three months, and these arguments for the three months were decisive for our decision: Yeah, we're gonna stay... [[Abg. Gaugg: Are you talking for the economy? Then you are a servant of the Chamber of Commerce!]] No, I'm talking to the consumer here. The three months are cheaper for consumers. For the economy, one month would have been cheaper, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. It is important for us that workers' rights are protected accordingly within the framework of these provisions. I mean, by this law, we protect the rights of workers when they come from abroad via a foreign company to Austria. I would like to point out that, of course, full protection applies to the construction workers from the first day. There is only a longer transitional provision for repair work. This should also be taken into account in this context. Mrs Reitsamer! I hope that in the future we will really understand in advance what is right, what is necessary and what makes sense. That is why we have now proposed a bar in the anti-abuse law – the mistake will be eliminated – and we have made the necessary decisions in the Black Labour Law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23523	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Mr deputies, you still have an 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23545	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A very brief comment on the point of the Labour Force Law and this whole sense of law, because Mrs Reitsamer has animated me to object by saying that: She said that we could actually agree to the request of the liberals, because he is objectively correct, he is well-founded, and there is no reason at all to disagree with him – but we still do not agree with him. I would like to say that once again: The only reason is that you cannot agree to the request because you cannot agree to it, and that, although it is correct. That must be done on the tongue! That also describes a certain helplessness of this government party, Mrs Reitsamer! The second point is equal or similar: There you are now in a situation where you are obviously proud of closing a gap for women – as you have said, Mrs Reitsamer – but you are not hiding that you have built a crater before, in which the women, when they lose the emergency aid, fall into. You're not saying that – but "we're closing a small gap"! Or to use a different picture, Mrs Reitsamer: By regulating emergency aid, I do not mean what Mr Kier has referred to, but the general rule, a wound is added to women, namely the loss of emergency aid or the partial loss of it. If the women say we need a patch, then they're told: But you have to pay for the patch, then you get one! That is the rule you have decided, and that, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to end up with Mr Kier's words, I would rather put it a little bit sharper – pitiful to bad!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23585	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23606	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The accession of Austria to the European Union has also led to the opening of the labour market for foreign workers. On the other hand, it is easier for Austrians to work abroad. To this end, it is essential to create framework conditions which must be regulated by law, and this claim 1103/A, which amends the Labour Contracts Act, the Labour Law, the Employment and Social Court Act, the Ausländerbehördegesetz and the Bundesvergabegesetz 1997, contains minimum standards for foreign workers. How important this is, I would like to point out on the basis of an example: If two thirds of Austrians and one third foreign workers wishing to take up their vacation are employed in a farm, then there will, of course, be major discussions and discussions, even if the duration of employment is equal but only the claims have been treated differently so far. The working climate, which has been a very good one among these employees until this day, suddenly no longer works. In addition, the employer also exerts pressure by presenting foreign workers as cheaper workers to the domestic workers. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be a matter of course for an employer if, for a wide variety of reasons, he demands foreign workers to register them at the same time and not only on the third day. It has already happened that on the second day foreign workers had an accident at work and had to be taken home because they had not yet been registered and therefore had no social security. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a united Europe, we should all be careful to ensure that people go together and not be played against each other. That is why we will continue to promote social democrats in legislation in favour of the rights of foreign workers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: If you are still in government!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23665	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23687	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Committee of 10.6. had something very atypical in itself: There were only two agenda items to be negotiated; more than that, this government coalition could no longer agree, as one sees: It can't be anymore. You've seen it again today. On the first point, to amend the contract law adaptation law: In addition to various inconsistencies, I am particularly disturbed by this three-month exception for assembly work. Mr Feurstein! If you claim that EU regulations have been implemented by this law, I tell you that, where we are otherwise such EU pattern students, in this case the EU regulations have been undermined! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not at all! That's totally wrong! Totally wrong!]] We shot beyond. If you claim that this should be in the interests of consumers, I would ask you to really explain it to me. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I'll explain that to you!]] This is not understandable for all of us, because one thing is clear: this scheme discriminates against and disadvantages both Austrian workers and the Austrian economy operating abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Austrian workers not at all!]] If you're working lobbyism here again, it's just not acceptable. In fact, you, as well as the Federal Minister, have clearly received positive comments from the Committee. I would therefore ask you to consider this and not always look for lazy excuses. On the second item to be discussed, all of my previous speakers have already given their views. It would also have been better for us to keep women who, after divorce, no longer receive emergency assistance and thus lose their social security, at a zero rate in their previous insurance. This is apparently not possible either. It would be fairer after our idea. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not quite understandable that, while there is a free entitlement under § 122 ASVG for people who are voluntarily excluded from the work process, contributions are still required and collected by those who would actually be available to the work process. It has not become a big throw – you have said that yourself, Mr Feurstein – but it is within the scope of the tolerable. It is a clear improvement in the current situation and that is why we will vote in favour of the liberals in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23755	Mrs Steibl has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes – please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23776	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The first item on the agenda today on the morning was, among other things, that women come to an interview at some point in the event of hardship. The last item on the agenda is also a matter of hardness: people who fall through the almost comprehensive social network. I think that what Mr Oellinger said and what has also been referred to by some other colleagues is not quite true, because thanks to the persuasion of our Gottfried Feurstein, it has now succeeded in the fact that, in principle, all women who lose legal health insurance and whose social and economic conditions do not allow a voluntary full insurance in the field of health insurance will be able to return to the enjoyment of insurance protection. I think that's a very important step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] No, so it is what has been for a long time, Mrs Mertel. This has now reached and been implemented, after the protection of women or men with little employment, another important social policy point on the part of the EIA. Unfortunately, an agreement on the protection of women's pensions has failed the SPÖ's resistance. In the long term, we need an independent pension scheme for women. Our proposal for the splitting of pensions would be implemented here, but it fails to involve co-controversies. [[Abg. Kiss: On the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Because they deserve something better!]] Of course, women deserve something better, but as a first step this would once be an important point that would be implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the medium term, it is also necessary to enforce and implement the fact that the periods for the education of children are included not only in the calculation of the pension but also in pension schemes and, of course, that women have an independent pension scheme. I think that after this one step there is still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23843	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Mr President, you have a speaking time of 5 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23873	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The presentation of the Labour Contracts Adjustment Act and the Foreign Employment Act includes, on the one hand, the posting directives, which have already been discussed in detail – and on the other hand, I come back to them later – and on the other, the rules for general contractors and the provisions in the event of breach of the Foreign Employment Act. This change is about the fact that in future several crimes for the simultaneous illegal employment of several foreigners are only a conviction with regard to the exclusion of public contracts. I don't know what that's supposed to be. This means that a public procurement operator is not excluded from the house if he proves that he has improved. This is not a clear rule for me. It is a rubber paragraph, it is a washiwaschi rule and in principle only serves to hide. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The transfer of services by general contractors or sub-contractors to more than 50 percent of the order value is now no longer permitted. I also believe that this is pointless because it made it insignificant to conceal employment relations. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a clearly veiled access to the subject!]] On the other hand, Mrs Colleague, I do not have so much time to listen to you now – it makes it difficult for general entrepreneurs to set up, because even a master builder is not able to deliver more than 30 percent of the total services himself in a normal construction project, and only state- or banking industries in the construction sector are able to take over these general orders with many concessions. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, in the case of public contracts, it should be noted that the often unforeseen time processes force all companies to pay a bid and accept orders for good luck, regardless of the operating expenses. If the execution coincides by chance with many other contracts, this transfer to subcontractors who often affect a large part of the contract is usually necessary and also economically necessary for those who pass on the contract. Since the inclusion of large additional staff for a short period of time is neither reasonable nor feasible and therefore only the risk is increased, I do not think that this is necessary. What's left? – If derogations are not used, the public authority must expect to cease to receive the discharge from a general undertaking or to pay at higher prices. Moreover, as we have heard, because the coalition parties do not agree to our amendment, there is a legal deterioration of Austrian assembly workers within and outside the European Union. Dr. Feurstein, if you say that this will help the consumer, then this is a pure eye-catching and an excuse from you. You don't seem to think of something better. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In principle, it is a bad situation for Austrian assembly workers because they have to work for three months, not under Austrian labour and social law, but under EU directives, and are therefore exposed to worse conditions than here in Austria. It can actually be said without exaggeration that the Austrian Federal Government has failed in trying to achieve better creation within the EU, in principle, because you do not agree with our amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23929	Mrs Silhavy has also been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e23951	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My two previous speakers in my group have already discussed the first of these two items on the agenda. Mrs Reitsamer pointed out that, unfortunately, due to the rigid attitude of the ÖVP, it was not possible to implement a law on the fight against undeclared work in the form in which it would have been of efficiency. [[Abg. Steibl: But this also did something good, because otherwise all the house builders would have stayed on the track!]] Mr Feurstein! Now a word to you: They have today regretted the anti-abuse law in the version adopted at the time. If we had waited for the ÖVP, we would still have no legal basis. That is why you should be grateful to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This ASVG-Novelle, as has already been noted several times, is based on a Committee remark on the revision of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Of course, I have to disagree with Mr Oellinger and Mr Kier here, because why alimentation and maintenance are different incomes than other accountable incomes, you have to explain this to me first. We have not succeeded in negotiating a corresponding social security scheme with the ÖVP in connection with the matrimonial law amendment law, which I said at the time on the occasion of this amendment to the unemployment insurance law. Ridi, because you regret this, I can already point out that there are some basics to it: At that time, when Helga Konrad was a minister, we made proposals on how we could achieve better social security and pension insurance for women, only: Unfortunately, the ÖVP has never been interested. That's the problem. [[Abg. Steibl: By paying 1,500 to 1 800 s! Where are they going to get this money?]] I can come back to the regulation we have now taken. This regulation – and in this respect I do not understand the objections of colleagues Kier and colleagues Ollinger – not only covers health insurance protection for women who now have no protection because they fall out of emergency aid, but it also provides for the possibility for those who, after divorce, live in less good social and economic conditions. I think that at least this should be an starting point for you – for in this respect this regulation goes far beyond the committee’s definition – to give us your approval. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would really like to thank you very much for including this part of the government template, which has come from the Ministry. In relation to a major problem which we have not been able to regulate at the other level, namely on today's item on the agenda, it has created a regulation, especially for those in need of protection. I think we all, especially we Social Democrats, can agree with this proposal with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24006	The next speech is by Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24027	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There are two materials for negotiation. When Mrs. Haller here said that we were at the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, on 10 June, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I can assure you that I was not able to move any more on June and that only two agenda items have been completed: We have just worked everything out and had no more to do. – This is so easy to explain. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haller: Rarely so laughing!]] I can prove to you that we were capable of doing so, because the Committee's remark of 12 November was that the Committee's opinion was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It was only because Gottfried Feurstein and Annemarie Reitsamer, together with the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, had become an initiative on this subject. That's a good thing! What did we do? – Nothing but helping a group of people – in this case women – who did not even have health insurance protection in a particularly depressed situation and who do not have the necessary money to obtain health insurance under conventional legal regulations. That is a good thing, and it is precisely why it is our consent. At the same time, however, thanks should also be given to all those who have been involved here. If Ridi Steibl believes that further action will have to be taken in this area in the next few years, then it is right. Social policy is a living thing, and it is always necessary to adapt to the needs. That's right. The same is true of the motion for a law 1103/A. It has been said that this is not a particularly large throw, and it has also been regretted that the law on the fight against black-and-collar work has not been adopted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – There must, of course, be different views, that is nothing unreasonable at all. There are different views and different points of view. However, we have, in general, not left the problem behind, but have found a way that constitutes a reasonable step towards establishing a legal basis for workers. That, I think, is our goal. In this sense, we have tabled ourselves, and that is why we also agree with the request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24075	Mrs Gatterer has also been mentioned. Voluntary time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to refer once again to the General Social Security Act. I think the opposition is not well advised to make this change of law more or less bad for women. We are always very happy to be able to say that 99 percent of the population are insured in Austria. Thank God only a very small group. You have to help this one. We have talked a lot about divorce today, and we know that this leaves a lot of scars in the mental field, but also in the financial field. We know today that many women have real problems by reckoning to the emergency. You're not insured. However, an insurance scheme must be favourable for them so that women can also benefit from it. I should like to point out that in Austria it is 44 000 women who are voluntarily insured. However, we believe that, in the context of divorce, it is urgently necessary that there be more favourable tariffs here in order to give women the protection of insurance that is urgently needed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to say once again that it will not be enough for women to have only health insurance, but that we need to talk generally about the social security of women. This means that, in the case of divorce, there must be a compensation for women who have not developed a pension or who would receive only a very low pension. I believe that, just as in the area of social security, we must try to find a solution together for these women.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24142	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24164	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Only a few sentences on these templates. Mrs Haller noted that only two agenda items had to be dealt with at the Committee meeting. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee, but also Mr Feurstein, very much for having been taken into account in this Committee meeting on future problems and for having therefore been dealt with as a priority these two points. On the same day, the Committee on Health took place so that a certain amount of time had been spent on this second committee. On the bill as such: As far as the proposal is concerned, I would like to draw up two points, which I believe we are also supporting the workers' side, which is very important. I mean those points which, on the one hand, better regulate general entrepreneurship within the meaning of workers than has been the case so far, and on the other hand, also with those - I allow myself to say so - will not be able to end that general undertakings will pass on virtually entire orders or a large proportion of a contract to subcontractors. There is therefore now a clear rule that at least half of the contract must remain under the responsibility of the general contractor, thus ensuring greater security. It was also discussed in the debate in the Black Labour Law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can only say that in the development of this law, in the preparation of this government template, experts from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and also from the social partners as well as the political level have cooperated and that, after the decision-making of the Council of Ministers, the government template has also been consulted with the experts of the ÖVP club, so that this government template contains considerable knowledge and considerable political knowledge. I regret, as has already been said, that we are still not likely to be able to deal with this law today or during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We do not have the rapporteur's final word and therefore proceed to the voting procedure at once. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt of the supplements in 1970. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. We shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted an amendment which refers to Article I Z 2 § 7a and Z 3 § 7b. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law, now in the version of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I also ask for an appropriate sign. – This is now the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt, which have not yet been voted on, also in the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is also done by the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1971. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00174_d7e24300	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications 1108/A to 1144/A have been tabled. Questions 6412/J to 6442/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 17. June 1999, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
