ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1932	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome all of you very much, and I ask you to take the places. I'll open the 178. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for today, 12 a.m. The official protocols of 174. Meeting of 16 and 17. June 175. Meeting of 17 and 18. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== June, have remained up-to-date and without opposition. They are therefore considered approved. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Trattner, Meisinger, Mrs. Haller, Dr. Krüger, Ing. Maderthaner, Mag. Kammerlander, Dr. Schwimmer, Dr. Novotny, Mrs. Dr. Pittermann and colleague Schieder. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1969	For this meeting today, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following messages: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel is represented by State Secretary Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Wilhelm Molterer by Federal Minister Dr. Werner Fassleven. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1993	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to a written communication in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2119	I am entitled to announce that the following proposal has been received: Annex 1836, amendments to Annexes I and II, additions to the Convention on the Examination and Designation of Noble Metal Items and Declaration of the Republic of Austria. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings of the National Council. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2147	I may announce that the Liberal Forum's club, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question which had just been put at the beginning of the sitting with the annex number 6543/J by Dr Heide Schmidt and comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning his promise regarding the implementation of the women's people's desire. The call for urgent inquiry will take place in accordance with the provisions you know three hours after submission, i.e. at 3 p.m. There is no other agenda. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2174	I can tell you that Mr Gaugg asked the Economic Committee to report to Parliament's motion for a resolution 589/A (E) on the discharge of Austrian training establishments for a period of 15 years. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States Furthermore, according to § 43 para. 1 request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a short debate on this request for a time limit. Since the urgent debate on a written request has just been envisaged for today's sitting, the short debate will take place following the negotiation of the urgent question. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. There is no further desire. That is why I am now interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m. and will begin to deal with the urgent question after resumption of the negotiations. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.05 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2216	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I will resume the interrupted meeting of the National Council. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2247	I can make the following supplementary communications: Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé asked the Committee on the Interior to report on the motion for a resolution 1081/A (E) by Dr. Partik-Pablé on the change of trend in the implementation of the Foreign Affairs and Asylum Act. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, which will be after the urgent debate and after a subsequent short debate. I would also like to say that: Mr Scheibner requested that the National Defence Committee report on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution 756/A (E) concerning the so-called tank package be limited to 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and This request will also be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations, after the vote on the request referred to above. In addition, Mr Scheibner requested that the National Defence Committee report on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution 953/A (E) on the abolition of the re-appointing of interception fighters be limited to 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, The vote will also be taken without debate following the vote just announced on this request by Mr Wabl on the deadline for 953/A(E). Finally, I should like to say that Mr Scheibner has still requested that the National Defence Committee report on Mr Wabl's request 671/A concerning a federal law amending the German Wehrgesetz 1990 should also be limited to 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. This vote will also take place without debate following the last vote on a request for a deadline. These applications have now been added. I would ask you to take these instructions into account. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidt, Maria Schaffenrath and partners in the Federal Chancellor regarding his promise that he would work to ensure that the women's people's desire "is implemented point by point" ("Standard", 21.05.1997) (6543/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2309	We now proceed to the urgent debate on Mrs Dr Heide Schmidt's written question 6543/J. This urgent question has now been addressed to all Members, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2535	I give Mrs. Dr. Schmidt as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2557	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! High house! As we know, in 1996 a group of women organized to articulate the fact that women are not only disadvantaged with us, but especially in Austria. As we know, this call has found its voice in a popular desire, a popular desire that, by listing twelve specific points, should cause politics to eliminate and eliminate these disadvantages. This desire has found support for nearly 650 000 people. That was in April 1997. Further, after being aware of the support of such demands in the population, a number of politicians spoke out, all of whom said that they would like to support not only the intention, but above all the concrete demands in this popular desire. One of those who meant that he would support this was the Federal Chancellor. He has not only spoken of support, no, he has even meant that he will stand up for it, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is something active – that this popular desire will be put into practice. He said something else. He said: If necessary, there will also be a coalition-free space for this. We have wished for this special session for the end of the legislative period in order not to listen to us again promises that you supposedly want to implement to put on the scales at the end of a legislative period, what you say and what you do, put on the scales, what the others say and what they do, and put on the scale of all that is to be taken into account. If I hear from this side, you don't have to do a special meeting, then I have to say: That's different. I therefore see this differently because I believe that the disadvantage of more than half of the people in the population is a democratic deficit, which should not only be dealt with in special sessions, but which deserves the highest attention that can be paid to a problem at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that there is no place for women's freedom policy is known, but we have not done it for the liberals either. [[Abg. Scheibner: If we had done this, it would be "abuse" of the Rules of Procedure!]] Federal Chancellor! Now, if we look at the popular desire, we see that the first point is a reference to the federal constitution. And on this federal constitution, we have sworn an oath to all of us who sit here and, in part, also stand. Article 7 states that all federal citizens are equal before the law, that privileges of birth, sex and so on are excluded. The reality is that more than half of the population in our country are disadvantaged because of the privileges of the birth of others. – This is an blatant violation of Article 7 of our federal constitution. And since this is so and since it is therefore noticeable that the written word alone does not have any effect and, above all, does not develop if it is written as it stands, the women in the women's-people's desire to change this wording in such a way that it is clear to all that this principle of equality is not something but a sort of target definition that can be achieved in a society in order to achieve constitutional conformity. This objective would have just stated that the Federal Government and the Länder are obliged to take all measures to achieve this equality. I'm telling you quite honestly: I have at the outset found that this is completely unnecessary, since it is natural anyway. What do the Constitution once again question about things that one knows and has committed itself to comply with? Mr Fekter nods to me at this stage, perhaps. However, my thinking changed when I saw the vehemence with which one refused to include such a formulation in the Constitution. If you say that is not true, I ask you why you did not decide as the request has stated. There has also been a relevant initiative proposal by the Liberals. You have rejected this initiative. So don't say it's not true! I have to say that this has been resisted by the fact that we are aware of the intention and more than voting, because that means that we do not have this active production of equal treatment and equality in mind at all, but that we think it is enough if it is in the Constitution and what happens then one would already see. And that is why it is so important to change the constitution in the minds of those who sit here and who therefore have it in their hands to shape the rules of the game, in the minds of those who sit in the country days, and also in the heads of those in the church offices, even if they do not pass laws, but they act decisively, to make it clear that this is not a basic sentence to which one confesses, but that it is an assignment to activity. Not only did you not do this, but you refused it! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not have to ask the questions verbally, because you have them in writing. I wonder what you have actively done to convince your coalition partner, where Mrs Fekter thinks it is natural anyway. You think that you have shown the willingness to change the Constitution in this direction. But talk alone doesn't benefit women for generations. First point – and I say now first point because it is so listed here, the Constitution has been so to speak taken as a headline –: Enterprises receive promotions and public contracts only if they ensure that women are represented at all hierarchical levels according to their share of the population. The Liberals are the last ones who want to merge the private sector and the market with regulatory craftsmanship and thus distort competition. But, Mr Puttinger, it is always a question of weighing interests and a question of clairvoyance for the argument that comes. And if, first of all from your ranks – and indeed we have seen this in all the reform proposals – the answer is only reflective, why something is not going, and never once is a thought lost about how at least one could get in the right direction, then I must say: Here too, it is obvious that one is aware of the intention and that it is therefore agreed. For we have also shown at the federal level, in the equal treatment law, that at least one direction can be given and that, therefore, this is for a long time not an obligation to accept that one. For the public service, I say: Unfortunately, this is not a compulsion. Unfortunately, because the public service could progress with a good example here. The fact that the EIA has nothing to do with women's policy is also understandable to me. However, I regret the fact that a colleague from the SPÖ Group is contributing to this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But this too is a moral picture, because we have that also in politics: that SPÖ always acts as if, but contributes to the fact that the ÖVP is able to get out of the affair wonderfully. In any case, there has not even been a possibility in this area. Now I do not even argue that perhaps women would not have been satisfied with the women's desire, but at least it would have been a step in the direction of saying what you at least tried to do, regardless of the fact that there may be sectors where you can never achieve this goal. But what did you try? What kind of women's promotion plans did you make? What incentives have you given to women? As internal rules of the game, what have you given to your staff representatives and to your people who are responsible for staffing? What have you done to hold all this in writing? I admit, even with this one can drive Schindluder, even this can ultimately be an alibi-handling, as we often experience it in public service, but at least to take this step and to cause a rethinking to those who are half reasonable, that would have been the task. But you didn't do anything. And the SPÖ has done nothing either, it has simply inserted itself into the reflection of the ÖVP and says: There's nothing going on! Federal Chancellor! What has personally helped you to change something? Here says: equal pay for equivalent work, minimum income. Everyone we sit here knows the demand for equal pay for equivalent work, at least since I've been politically interested. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Have you been interested in this," sounds good!]] That's what I'm saying quite openly, without counting it. This is a really unfair impression from you and one that saddens me for this because you should look for yourself, in fact, as partners and partners, of whom you can be sure that they actually stand for the matter, and not those who hold formally on to your side because they are coalition partners. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Equal pay for equal work and minimum income. I now say that this does not necessarily belong to me. I've got a position on both of them. I also do not say no to minimum income, although I believe that the instrument of basic security would be much better suited. That's what you can talk about. The same wage for equivalent work, however, is much more than just this minimum, equal wage for equivalent work means, at last, not only in Parliament, but also in places where it is negotiated, to talk about the criteria for assessing this work. I say that, which I attach great importance to market mechanisms. But we now have collective agreements, and the rules of the game, which are held there as a standard, are anything but fair, anything other than really appreciable, they are actually nothing but an image of a patriarchal structure, which is something that is something that has even been overtaken by the technique for a long time. You only need the life curve of a excavator or someone who used to use more muscle power and today has been relieved by the technique, and look at the life income curve of a cashier who works in the supermarket, or someone standing on the bond. Things are clumsy. Now I'm asking: What, Mr Bundeskanzler, have you done as chairman of the Social Democratic Party to talk to the Social Democrats, head of the trade union, and to point out exactly this problem, which is being solved by the social partners in the run-up to the collective agreements? What has the Vice-Chancellor and Chairman of the ÖVP done – you always talk about it and say: equal pay for equivalent work – to move his ÖVP colleague Madethaner, head of the Chamber of Commerce, or also boldly, Secretary-General, to get these partners to sit together, discuss this item on the agenda, and to work out a catalogue of criteria in concrete terms? I always hear it about the medien and especially when elections are coming. I do not know a meeting that became public, where this issue was the subject of the negotiations. I'm just saying something. What has the head of the ÖVP done to move his colleague Madethaner to do so? Have you ever called a club meeting where you said: We in Parliament are concerned about equal pay for equal work, and what can we do to make parliamentarians?Unknown term type: "%s".? We still have the head of the Chamber of Commerce and its Secretary-General in our Parliamentary Governments. Just like club chief Kostelka, if it was really a concern for him to ask once: What are the parliamentarians doing? Is that where we have the union president, perhaps he can do something about this? That means: What have you tried to initiate parliamentaryally to carry it on? Or do you only use your honourable Member's mandate to ensure that the one in his capacity as President of the Federal Economic Union ultimately block a change in the closing times and the other in his capacity as trade union president the adoption of the trade order? I would like you to take this revelation page and tell us what actually happened to do something like you say point by point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] When I get to point three, I'm giving up: It is really not easy, especially in the system we have, to equalise part-time work and small-time employment by labour and social law. It should be admitted that a step has been taken in this regard. I believe that this must take a deeper hold and that there is a need for a profound system change, but this is at least an initiative. However, I do not experience that this is more serious than that small step that has already been taken – from one’s own point of view – properly. Now there's something else to come up with. No account of the partner income in case of emergency aid and compensation allowance.– That would be changed with a bill. When we talked about it – and it was still under Minister of Finance Lacina – that it would be necessary to make the transfers income dependent, everyone here in the house said no, whether this was the freedom, the ÖVP, the Greens or the Social Democrats: An income-dependent design of transfer services is not at all possible! I can remember that very well. Minister of Finance, Lacina, said that although it is possible to deal with it, the great danger would be that family taxation would then be taxed, as social democrats, it is so important for it to be individually taxed. He's got me full on his side. Individual taxation is also very important to us, and with our model this individual taxation is not at all at risk. If it is so important to you, then I wonder why it is precisely in those points where ultimately the women are those who pay mostly on it, at once the family income, that is, the income of the partner, and usually that of the man, is included and the woman is the one who pays for it. I wonder, What have you done to make this different and not only to justify the independence of individuals, but also the equal treatment of women and men? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Next point: I don't need to stop, it's about statistics. When it comes to statistics, there is still the greatest willingness here. This is a duty to nothing, and we will make the conditions. That's the only thing you've done. Should be, it's all right. We'll see what's going on. Point six: Every person has the right to reconcile work and children. This is about the care facilities. As far as the care facilities are concerned, you tell me, Mrs Minister, that 34 500 kindergartens have been created. That's all right, only one thing is clear: 100 000 are still missing, and now I am not talking about all day schools at all. I therefore ask you: What did you do? Or do you say it's a step in the right direction? I think it unbearable for such relations to be maintained. Now I come to two points in which I also absolutely admit that I am concerned that they will not have a goal-oriented effect: that is the legally guaranteed right to part-time work, and that is the extension of the retention period. I am willing to exchange the arguments on this, but I am not here to express my concern at the fact that this could have a very counterproductive effect, that exactly such a - and I am really thinking of small and medium-sized enterprises - issue could serve as an excuse for taking fewer women into the labour market. But I say again: I have signed this popular desire because I think it is important to talk about it, and because I also believe that the minds are already opened at the stage of the argumentation. But I do not believe that there is a real serious attempt by the Socialist side, which is supposed to represent it, to take a step forward in this regard. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come to point ten: Every person has the right to a basic pension. This is about the fact that someone who is not in employment should have an independent right. A clear yes to this – not only since the women's popular desire! I am proud of the fact that we were the ones who brought basic security into the political debate process. I am not saying that we have invented it, but it has not been a political process before the Liberals introduced the subject of basic security two years ago. Now there is a competition of ideas. I therefore say: The basic pension for me is the first stage to carry out the basic insurance. And that is also a necessity! I am aware that it will not happen in one, we must do it step by step, and the first step would be basic protection in old age. That is why a clear yes! But that's not all. I believe that, as long as we do not have them, individual rights must be acquired and they cannot always exist as derived rights from the partner. It would therefore be necessary, from our point of view, for the non-working partner, the non-working partner – we know, it is the women who are affected – to complete an insurance, a kind of insurance, for whom, of course, the professional also has to pay the contributions. Don't tell me that's not easy! Of course, there must be special tariffs, which is certainly logical. Where it is socially desired, there are also these, for example among students. But none of it came from you. If, at the end of the day, there is no further increase in the retirement age until equal rights are achieved, I must say: At least you didn't do that to us. All in all, Federal Chancellor: You really don't have a good conscience about what happened in women's policy matters when it comes to looking back on this legislative period. I'm not saying nothing happened. That would be even more beautiful if you were four years in government and did nothing for women at all! But if I restore the relation, the comparison to what would be necessary, and if, above all, I restore the relation to what you promised, then the balance is so negative that I have to say: Your credibility has already been undermined in this area alone, so that I do not believe any more promises at all. But I would like to hear the other Members see their self-understanding as Members of this House, whether they are doing something only if the force of the political groups makes them do so, or whether they have allowed free majority voting on their own initiative. I say that the most important points are finally to put the Constitution with a clear objective, so that everyone knows that it is not just a confession, but a task for women to have separate rights instead of constantly deduced from the active partner, and that concrete steps must be taken in the direction of finally providing equal pay for equivalent work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2652	The German Chancellor is speaking to answer the urgent question. – Please reply, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2673	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Schmidt! I would like to thank you for having the opportunity to discuss with you about women's people's desire and to draw some sort of interim balance, which is, quite openly, an interim balance on a path which is not yet completed for us, a balance sheet in which nothing is to be embellished. Women in our society are still not equal to men in many areas of public and private life, do not have the same opportunities, but, quite the contrary, are often prevented from exercising their opportunities and their rights. We must recognize this, but we must not take note of it! Ladies and gentlemen! This is also an assessment of what has changed over the last few years in favour of women, the progress we have made towards the implementation of women's demands, with equal rights and equal opportunities for women, which must be the logical objective of a policy aimed at socially just society, such as: They have formulated it themselves, not only because women's policy in the sense of gender mainstreaming needs to be made in all policy areas, but because, of course, we all know that we are talking about this subject seriously, we already need a big social change in order to achieve this goal. That is why we need support and serious cooperation between all the political leaders in order to achieve this objective, including those forces – and there must be quite open and honest – that really want to maintain the traditional role assignment of women and thus the traditional discrimination of the female majority of people in our country – and there are also those where we will need a lot of strength to achieve a rethinking together. I think it is very positive that the majority of women, across all parties and across all layers, are no longer willing to deal with the situation. This applies to private life in the same way as to professional life and all policies. I believe that it is important that the determination of the demands and the growth of consciousness in this area is also made clear that this is a very clear task for us, for the political leaders, to take account of and create social conditions which ensure that women can lead a self-determined life and that equal opportunities are actually given without dependence. But we can say, I believe, that, especially in our country, essential measures have been put in place to reduce discrimination, to promote women, to achieve this equality and have already been effective. A chance for independence, Mrs. Schmidt, is a chance for me to work. That is why it is also our and my explicit goal to increase the employment rate of women, to improve their opportunities in employment and in the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without political demagogy, Mrs Schmidt, it can be read in figures that in recent years the female employment rate has increased, although not enough, but at least has moved in the right direction – that is a fact! . and that the increase in employment has benefited women in three quarters in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The unemployment!]] Since May 1997, 47 000 new jobs have been created for women. I already admit: Unfortunately, it is not the case that, if employment increases, unemployment also decreases at the same time. This was a particular problem, which is why we have also committed ourselves to the trend change in the labour market towards reducing unemployment. But I stress that we have made numerous efforts, efforts and measures to achieve that there is a positive trend, and we can already note this: Women's unemployment has been falling steadily since December 1998. There are 10 167 unemployed women less than in the previous year compared to the same period of June; this is a minus of more than 10 percent. I am sure that the trend change on the labour market will not be possible without adequate support for women. Therefore, the AMS spends much more than half of the resources on active labour market policies for women, and this should not change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think this is a clear commitment to the fact that in our policy we are putting the independence and economic independence of women in the foreground. It is thanks to the dedicated policy of the Minister of Women Mag. Barbara Prammer, but also through numerous other projects of the Federal Government, managed to achieve something during this term of office. For example, a small number of employees, unfortunately, must be said quite openly, especially women, have improved social security since the 1997 pension reform. The Federal Government, although not responsible for this, has paid a total of about 1.2 billion schilling for childcare facilities over the last two years, which must be doubled by corresponding subsidies from the countries as you know. The new family law brings much more security and improvement of women in marriage and also in divorce. And our law against violence in the family is probably an example in all of Europe, and we could be a little proud of that, Mrs. Schmidt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, for example, we are discussing the link between public procurement and women's promotion plans, Mrs Dr Schmidt, I can tell you that the Social Democratic members of the Federal Government have given instructions in their respective areas of responsibility that within the limits permitted by the European Union in public procurement, the presence of women's promotion plans is necessary and to be taken into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I cannot say that all the departments have done so. I can only tell you that the Social Democrats have done so, and I believe that this is an important step in order to actually achieve more women's promotion in the farms. [[Abg. Kiss: Was that the case with "Euroteam"?]] What do women's promotion mean in the farms? – That certainly also means creating appropriate opportunities for women to penetrate the so-called glass ceiling. But this also means new opportunities, for example, in the direction of working hours, in the direction of farm kindergartens and many more things. These are points that we want them to be more taken into account in the future in the economy. The Social Democrats have done this. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is a "social democratic place"?]] Dear Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Another point: You have to live this too, if you think that you have to promote the careers of women. I can tell you: Since I was in the Federal Chancellor's Office, I have had two section lines to order. Both sections were occupied with women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two years ago I was here and was asked to ensure that the women's rate in this area is improved in order to occupy the important role of constitutional judges and constitutional judges. I am very glad – and I tell you quite openly – that it has succeeded in sending two excellent constitutional judges to the Constitutional Court with Dr Claudia Kahr and with Mrs Lilian Hofmeister. I think this is very good and very positive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They know that other members of the government are also trying to make the appropriate posts – regardless of whether that is the minister of science or anyone. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I can also report to you that the Social Democrats have adopted Women's Funding Plans for the respective section by means of a regulation. I emphasize: accusing and binding! This is probably an essential quality feature that we have created. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What is a "social democratic place"?]] You're all invited to do the same. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Federal Chancellor! What are "social democratic resorts"?]] – The ones led by social democrats, so that this is clear. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The family tax reform, which has also made improvements for single parents and for each child 6 000 S in addition a year, means the more flexible pension schemes, the regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution and, of course, the National Action Plan for Employment, which I have already mentioned: All of these are very specific measures for women. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these fundamental concerns of women's desire are a very clear and clear task for the entire Federal Government to proceed quickly with the concrete implementation of these measures. But it is clear that some of these concerns have been pursued by nearly 650 000 women and men with greater commitment than others have. But this is probably a real political situation that you know that should not be strange to you. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I would like to say quite clearly: We are not the goal of our wishes, and we will have to continue working, also in the sense of this women's desire, which is very supportive here in order to achieve our goal. It's the way you mentioned it: It must be natural for a modern, democratic and socially just society to help women to have the right and the success they rightly expect from our society. If you agree, then I would like to come to a specific answer to the questions. Question 1: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I am still committed to the implementation of the objectives of women's people's desire. I am also in favour of implementing the vast number of points, but I have never left a doubt that I do not consider any of the implementation of a minimum income of 15 000 s by federal law. I do not think that legal minimum wages are appropriate in Austria. This is a matter of collective contractual partners. You have said that I have committed myself to putting the point of popular desire into practice. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You said it, I can't do it!]] - No, you've read this in a newspaper; that's a difference. I have never left a doubt that I do not consider a minimum legal income of 15 000 s to be good under Austrian conditions. This is the matter of collective contractual partners, and I have asked in the debate with the representatives of the women's people's desire, Mrs Hostasch, to hold talks with the collective contractual partners in order to unravel collective agreements on discrimination in order to take action in this direction. That I do something in the direction of a law I have never promised. That is why I ask you, Mrs Dr Schmidt, to understand – I would like to say this very clearly and clearly – that we have the objectives to achieve in this women's people's desire gradually, as far as they are important, and I have committed myself to this for most of the points. But also an open word: They are an experienced politician and know, for example, the distribution of competence between the federal, state and local authorities. There are, for example, points where the Federal Government takes a lot of money, although the competences are very clear among other local authorities, just because we want to achieve a common success. I can therefore tell you – and you know that, as I believe, you yourself – that the goals, as they are embedded in the women's desire, cannot be achieved in two years' time. But I think you cannot claim that in any of the points a step has been taken in the wrong direction. Steps have been taken in the right direction, and we will not rest and continue to take these steps in order to fulfil the legitimate demands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question No 2, by the Constitutional Provision concerning: There have really been hours of discussions here in the National Council, and I know your claim that the formulation of this constitutional provision will not do anything. – Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, believe me, I disagree. Allow me. I am convinced that the legislation adopted by the legislator has made substantial progress on the issue of actual equality between women and men. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The question is different!]] I do not wish to go out on a legal basis, but you know that state objectives are, indeed, principles and guidelines of state action, in all its forms. They are directly addressed to all local authorities with the legal obligation as a national objective and are obliged to go towards the achievement of the stated objectives. They also control future state activities, drive developments further. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The question was asked differently!]] That is why, Mrs Schmidt, I believe that this regulation, as we have created it, is very much a clear policy-making and action-making task and is also a source of pressure for action. As you know, Mrs Schmidt, because you are really a constitutional expert, the Constitutional Court has clearly and clearly stated that state objectives must be applied as an objective measure of legislation and enforcement. We have always made it clear that, as a result of the fact that women are still being misplaced, their promotion is also compatible with the principle of equality. Questions 3 and 4: I have already stated in the introduction that the development of employment and the development of unemployment in Austria is very committed to giving special support to women. And there is a particular need for labour market policy. Women therefore have a special priority in the labour market service. It is our aim to ensure that women are represented in all measures and promotion areas in a quota of more than half. I should like to mention a few figures to you, Mrs Schmidt, because there are some successes. With a female share of 45.6% of the unemployed, over 50 percent of the AMS benefits women. Almost 60 percent of the support for living benefits women. AMS courses in training facilities are attended by 57 percent of women. Support facilities for training are used to 46 percent of women, although the proportion of girls in this area is only one third. Inclusion aid is made available to 53 percent of women. There is a single programme point where these objectives have not yet been achieved by the labour market sector, and this should not be kept silent. This concerns the area where enterprises, businesses and the economy have the sole choice of participating in the respective measures. The so-called ESF co-financed Objective 4 programmes, promoting employment, account for only 31.6 percent of the female share. We will therefore be incorporating a corresponding anti-tax pass into these regulations from the year 2000 onwards, so that women are also represented accordingly in the higher qualification of people in employment. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I fully agree with you that businesses must force women's promotions. As already mentioned: We tried this in our department. In addition, we have novelled the Labour Constitution Act here in the National Council. The farmer shall discuss with the Works Council issues relating to the promotion of women at work or the compatibility of care obligations and occupations. I believe that there is an increasing number of businesses that show the interest in developing support measures for women. More and more companies are informing the Minister of Women and the set up services about the conditions for linking public procurement with the promotion of women in business. And we also provide assistance for these companies, for example, we give the necessary know-how to develop women's promotion measures and more. Questions 5 to 9: I believe that we can, together, point to success in the field of public service. There is already a role model in the public service in the field of equal treatment and promotion of women, and this has already been demonstrated. With the Federal Equal Treatment Act and the Women's Promotion Plans, we have set ourselves the goal of increasing the proportion of women at all levels of the Hierachie in the public service, especially in the management positions of course. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! In this context, I would like to refer once again to what I myself have done in my place of business, in my responsibility. However, there has also been a recent change in the Federal Equality Act here in the House, which has also allowed for steps to be taken towards strengthening the promotion of women. We have significantly expanded the whole scope of the Federal Equality Act. We now have compensation schemes which can ensure effective deterrence from discrimination, as requested by the ECJ. We have achieved the relief of sexual harassment, and we have achieved Mrs Schmidt that a balanced proportion of women must be made in service commissions. As long as this is not the case, the equal treatment officers shall be invited to the meetings and may participate in those meetings. But the aim is to achieve a balanced proportion of women in the Service Law Commissions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was already provided in the Federal Equal Treatment Act 1993 that the equal treatment officer should be provided with the information necessary for the implementation. In order to make the activities of the equal treatment officers more efficient, we have, in this very novel to the Federal Equality Act, established that the obligation to provide information is, at least, a priority over the silence of office. In addition to these legal bases, there are a number of enhanced measures in the women's promotion plans of the individual ministries which enable effective activities of the equal treatment representatives. Questions 10 to 12: The Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs has been negotiating, as you know, a fundamental reform of the equal treatment law for a long time, involving the social partners, with the topics being very comprehensive and therefore not yet completed. These include, for example, the removal of the upper limit on damages, the level of evidence, the relief of cases of sexual harassment, the implementation of the burden of proof, the improvement of protection of discrimination and the improvement of the procedure before the Equal Treatment Commission. It is a fact – and this is also clearly noted here – that there are still difficulties in these social partners' discussions, that the employer's side in particular is still opposed to real improvements in the equal treatment law, and that only what is necessary in order to adapt to the EU directives. The partnership has been discussed here, in particular the economy is invited to accept these challenges and to improve with us, with the Federal Government, this equal treatment law. However, I believe that the example of the Federal Equality Act is a good example and will provide an incentive for these social dialogues. In this legislative period, the Hoge Haus has adopted a small novelle - admittedly - to the equal treatment law, allowing for example the regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution. We opened the first regional office in Innsbruck in November 1998. The regional attorney is the contact point for the federal states of Tyrol, Salzburg and Vorarlberg. And of course, further expansion is one of the programmes of the Federal Minister Prammer. It is next planning to set up a regional office in the south of Austria, and I am convinced that we will be opening the next regional office next year. On the question 13: I have just mentioned it briefly, but I think it is clear in this context that the Federal Government believes that wage policy in Austria falls within the autonomous sphere of responsibility of the collective contractual partners, the interests of workers and employers, with, of course, collective agreements having to respect the equal treatment law. I guess that's clear anyway. However, I consider it an important task of our policy, my policy, to provide the appropriate support for handling such complex issues, and for this reason the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs, involving the social partners, has commissioned a study on income development and job evaluation. On the basis of this study – and I am convinced that this will be the case – the collective contractual partners should now develop a guide. Question 14: In the current legislative period, the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection has significantly increased the budget for women's institutions and women's projects in her area. The protection and expansion of the women-specific advisory measures could thus be strongly driven forward. We have only recently held a discussion with representatives of these institutions. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! As a concrete example, I can give you the Austrian women's and girls' services. Since 1997, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has significantly increased the funding for these institutions, and in 1999 the long-term security – and this was a legitimate concern due to the annuality of this budget – was achieved by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs by means of three-year framework contracts. Question 15: The National Employment Action Plan is a special support for women in the step we consider to be very, very important. As early as 1997, a first founding women's fair, a business center, was set up in Vienna. The subsequent expansion of the activities of this centre is of course a matter of course. Another Business Women Center was set up in Graz in 1997. There, potential young entrepreneurs will be given appropriate advice, business know-how, information on favourable financing opportunities, there are group and individual consultations and so on. The activities of these two Business Women Centers also include cooperation with other consulting companies in other federal states, such as Vorarlberg. There are various regional events in this area. There are already appropriate preliminary talks with Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Tyrol. In Salzburg there is a similar advisory body financed by the European Union. The Business Women Center has also made very specific efforts to ensure that venture capital, i.e. equity capital, is available specifically for business start-ups. There is an Austrian large bank... [[Abg. Steibl: But it pays off Bank Austria, not the SPÖ!]] I was just about to say, There is an Austrian large bank that has set up a so-called founder fund, and everyone else are invited to do something like that. That's not a monopoly. The invitation is given to all the institutions, and I am very glad that a large bank has found itself setting up such a foundation fund. On the question 16: Pre-financing of EU funds under labour market policy is regulated in such a way that the annual Federal Finance Act under the Federal Proposal, Chapter 15: Social, the possibility of funding 80 percent of the European Social Fund's resources in the framework of the development of labour market policy. In addition, the Federal Ministry of Finance has granted a surplus authorisation for the remaining 20 percent of the pre-financing of the funds. It is thus ensured, Mrs Schmidt, that a 100% pre-financing for the ESF can actually take place: 80 percent there, 20 percent there, makes 100 percent. On the question 17: In principle, part-time workers are equal to full-time workers from the labour market point of view. We have created legal framework conditions for part-time workers in the Working Time Act and have introduced an explicit prohibition of discrimination for part-time workers. For example, additional work regularly carried out should also be taken into account in the calculation of the various claims. There's an open point – one! – and this is an open point for employees who work less than one fifth of the weekly normal working time in the month, i.e. usually less than eight hours, and who therefore also regularly belong to the minor employees who still have a minimum time limit for termination schemes in the Employment Act. We want to eliminate this minimum time limit by means of the Fairneß action, and I hope that implementation will be possible soon. Then there is a 100% equality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 18: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Emergency aid is due, as you know, in the event of continuing unemployment following unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: What about social law?]] However, this is generally only when there is an emergency. That is, emergency aid is only due in a subsidiary way if one has no other income sufficient to combat the livelihood. A few weeks ago, the report of an expert group presented by the German Federal Minister Hostasch, of course, also addressed this problem of social security in the case of long-term unemployment, emergency aid. It is suggested by the study authors that the minimum security by the social state and the appropriate needs orientation be re-regulated and re-designed. That's something we've done. I can also say that the compensation allowance is, of course, a kind of care benefit, a kind of social benefit, in order to take account of the partner's income in respect of the compensation allowance. The compensatory allowance guarantees the insured a minimum income for the benefit of the person concerned. All other income of pensioners or of their spouses must also be taken into account. On question 19: The benefit is currently paid at an amount of 185.50 S per day. In a month of 30 days, this amounts to 5 565 s, with single and needy parents also having the opportunity to apply for a Carenz cash grant of 2 500 s. It's true: Karenz money has not been increased since 1996. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I am sure that in the course of the budgetary negotiations for the coming year, an increase in the amount of benefit will be an essential point. There will be an increase and an increase in the amount of care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The demand made by the Minister for Women for a further development of the karenz money towards income-relatedness is, in principle, positive, because of the fact that the current regulation in many cases makes it difficult for the better-earning parent to go to Karenz if the overall loss of income is too large. But it is clear that the approach to the income dependence of the karenz money, which is relatively new in the political debate and is now being discussed with serious, raises difficult legal issues, such as the question of income rates or the question of the upper and lower limits in such a model. This means that many points still need to be clarified in the political debate in advance. [[Abg. Steibl: That's why "carnation money for all" is better!]] Of course, funding must also be clarified, but I am in principle in favour of this concern. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 20: I hope that each of us has the opportunity to prove, as a man, that, as a father, equality and the abandonment of traditional role ideas are essential concerns. And I assume that this Karenz reform, which will be discussed here in the House next week, will in fact be able to make a certain contribution to this. For example, the basic idea for the government template mentioned above is a flexible design of the leave for mothers and fathers – in the interests of the better compatibility of family and profession for both parents. The following specific rules are provided for: independent entitlement to leave for fathers – for the leave of fathers; forgive, politically incorrect, you are right; flexible reporting periods, i.e. the introduction of a second reporting period; [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Karenzzeit!]] The possibility of two periods of leave between mother and father – at least three months –; The possibility of a simultaneous leave for mother and father – a maximum duration of one month – when the caregivers change for the first time; the possibility of saving part of the leave period and taking it into account until the seventh birthday or until the child's entry into school; A minimum of six months for adoptive parents. I believe that this is not yet the dream goal, but it is certainly essential steps towards a better reconciliation of work and family for both parents. All these steps are also possible through an increased takeover of care responsibilities by fathers. But that's not the end, Mrs. Schmidt. I believe that the requirement for the anchoring of the right to part-time work until the child's entry into school with the right to return to a full-time job is and should be implemented. And we will also be very committed to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a measure which would make it easier for both parents to fulfil their job and family tasks, and which would significantly increase the opportunity for women to remain in the labour market after the retirement period. There is no agreement yet, unfortunately I cannot tell you anymore, but it is a wish that should be implemented. Dear Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I am also thinking of the increased expansion of women's promotion plans, which also include men in the farms. The more the firms see their employees as people not only in their professional role, but also note that they want to carry out their professional and family tasks equally, the better it will be to have a fair distribution of employment and care work and thus equal opportunities for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On questions 21-25: I think it should have already been said that we fully support the demand of women's people for quality childcare facilities. What good does a young woman benefit from their good training when on the other side of the kindergarten closes at lunch or over lunch? This is a rhyme from many women when they are told: Design yourself well, develop yourself in your profession! if then there is not the minimum form of compatibility. It must therefore be our objective to set a quality standard for childcare facilities if we really want to implement and implement opportunities for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one speaks of freedom of choice, it is precisely that, this lack of good childcare facilities, a compulsion that is exercised on women. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's why!]] How to implement the freedom of choice for women by forcing them into a certain life course on the other hand. We want to eliminate this pressure and therefore provide good childcare facilities. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What did you do for it?]] And although it is not the task of the federal government, we have provided a first tranche of 600 million schilling plus 50 percent of the countries, i.e. 1.2 billion schilling, and a second tranche of 600 million schilling from federal funds – not in our area of responsibility. As early as the first tranche, 19 000 additional care places could be created. For the award of the second tranche, there is a resolution by the National Council which sets particular priorities: for example, care for children under three years of age, but also for schoolchildren or, for example, appropriate opening hours. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: We have nothing to do with resolutions, Mr Bundeskanzler!]] New ways must also be taken. From the community structure, for example, it is important that we support cross-communist childcare projects, that we support particularly farm kindergartens. The countries – and this is clear – will have to double our amounts in order to give women a chance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also know that the labour market service itself, although not at all its original task, provides a lot of grants, re-entry assistance for the purpose of child care and so on. These expenditures increased from 1996 to 268 million schilling by 198 million until 1998. This concerns only the expenses of the AMS for childcare. I believe that it would be important for us, together at all levels, to call on those responsible in the countries and communities to fulfil this objective. Because you've already mentioned it: There is also the proposal for a "Tagseltern" career with appropriate basic qualification, further training and also transfer possibilities to other related occupations. It was reported to the National Council in December 1998. But you know that, of course, the implementation of the vocational image cannot be done at the federal level, but falls within the competence of the countries which are more reticent to the opposite. The negotiations so far have not brought any positive results. But we will not give up, we will continue to fight! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is parliamentary democracy!]] Yes, this is parliamentary democracy! [[Abg. Dr Graf: You have more time to speak than all the political groups together! This is parliamentary democracy!]] There is a need to fight if one wants to achieve a goal. And I can tell you, Mrs. Schmidt: We'll fight! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards collective agreements: For example, collective contractual negotiations are currently taking place for day-parents between the federal association of employers for health and social professions and the ÖGB. The aim is to bring together different conditions of employment and training throughout the country. I believe that the creation of such a uniform federal standard with appropriate social and labour protection for the caregivers is a very important objective, which we must enforce, as a matter of urgency, again for women. Question 26: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! We are well aware of the problems with single parents, and we know that these problems are particularly serious. Recognize that there is a small step in this direction with the regulation that mothers who do not specify the father of their child can now refer a grant to the benefit. But we have not yet reached agreement. But I'm the first one to say, This injustice that a child who has both parents has the chance to be cared for by his parents for two years, while a child who has only one parent is discriminated against and disadvantaged by having only one and a half years of parental care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question 27: The acquisition of an independent pension entitlement for women has been gradually developed through appropriate legal measures. For example, it was supported by the introduction of the social security obligation for all persons employed, by the inclusion of minor employees in the social security system, by the promotion of continued insurance in pension insurance for persons who are close to their families and by the significant increase in the basis of the calculation for replacement periods of child rearing with effect from 1. January 2000. These improvements contribute significantly to closing insurance gaps, especially in the insurance course of women, and also to increasing pensions. Since that date, a significant improvement has also been achieved in the area of pension insurance for women in the context of divorce reform. I have already pointed out, Mrs Dr Schmidt, that there is a need for women-friendly further development of the pension system. In this sense, the Federal Minister for Women has drawn up a White Paper on further measures to promote an independent pension claim for women. The objective must be to close the existing gaps in the course of insurance through contribution and replacement periods. There are also discussions with the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs at expert level. On question 28, to the last of your questions, Mrs. Schmidt: It was a cultural success that I succeeded in ensuring, in negotiations with the Vienna Philharmonics, that women can also be included at the Vienna Philharmonics in the future. As a result, the orchestral collective contract for the State Opera Orchestra was changed. This also created the legal framework for the inclusion of women in the State Opera Orchestra. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I believe that in order to have made it clear that we do not want to please anything that we have not yet reached the end of our path to the goal we want to achieve, namely, that, on the basis of the desire for women, we really want to achieve equality between women and men in the right and the right. We have not yet reached this goal, but we will continue to work on it and fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3044	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3065	Before I go into the debate, I have announced that Mr Wabl has requested, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to set up a committee of inquiry on the issues of the circumvention of the war material law by the Federal Minister of State Defense and the suspicion of infringement of the badge law. It is in this context that of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. Under the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this debate and immediately thereafter the vote on the request for the debate which has already been announced will take place on Mr Gaugg's request for a deadline. I have also announced that Members Dr Kier and Magistrate. However, Stoisits – that is to say, it is only in the person of Mr Kier, since the green club has just asked for the establishment of an investigation committee in the person of Mr Wabl – that Mr Dr. Kier according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to review the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior in connection with the death of Mr Marcus Omofuma. It is also in this context that five Members, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure will take place this debate and then the vote on the request after completion of the debate and after the vote on the previous committee of inquiry tabled by the Green Group. The votes on those requests for deadlines, for which no debate has been requested, will be postponed at the time of the votes on the two Committees of Inquiry, because the votes on the Committee of Inquiry's requests take precedence over the votes on the requests for deadlines. We are now going into the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes, per group 25 minutes. Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3119	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Women Federal Ministers! Federal Minister! Mr Bundeskanzler, the claims to the SPÖ women's policy seem to be very deep in the meantime. If you get applause from your group because since the women's desire no step has been taken in the "false" direction, I think this is significant. I have not forgotten the steps in the wrong direction in the 1994 and 1995 savings packages. Women still suffer from these setbacks in essential areas today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I have also not forgotten in the 1995 elections that the SPÖ is full of promises, such as those: "We will not allow that...!==References====External links== But it has remained with these full - souled promises. Federal Chancellor! You can still be so binding on the women's cause today, the fact is that many of your promises have not been implemented, and the fact is that you wanted to save yourself here today with kind concessions about the rounds and not always specifically addressed facts. I would also like to say the following: ==References====External links== In October 1998: In my vision, the conditions are based on women and not vice versa! In reality, however, there are 50 000 women who are not employable on the labour market alone, because there are no childcare facilities. In addition, women are invited to a child care facility for an hour's driving time. If this is how your conditions for women look, Mr Bundeskanzler, then we are still very far from better conditions! Minister! You said, on the occasion of your statement, that you will take particular account of women's promotion in all future employment plans, and you have declared great today that women are already doing much better in the labour market. Federal Minister! You know, of course, that in April 1999, the unemployment rate for women was 7.7%. They know that in 1998 the unemployment rate for women averaged 7.5%. You know, of course, that the unemployment rates for men and women have been developing differently for six years – of course, to the contrary for women. Of course you also know, Minister of State, that the number of emergency aid recipients has doubled. But if you say today that the partner income must continue to be taken into account in emergency aid, I ask you: What does this mean for the women concerned? This means that twice as many women today depend on their active partner, which means that twice as many women do not have a chance to live self-determined lives. We are not yet talking about hidden unemployment among women, we are not talking about all those women who have already given up trying to get a job. A recent letter from the BFI in the Styria has been sent in a rowdy letter because there are no more opportunities to enter the labour market. Federal Chancellor! Because you say about the longer-term financing of women's and education institutions you would have had talks: I think it was the women who had talks with you in the action "Sleepless Nights"! Women have protested. No one could have formulated it more accurately than Eva Linsinger, who wrote in the "Standard" that the demonstration was embarrassing enough in normal times, but in election times it was twice unpleasant, and decades of declarations of intent had made women impatient and suspicious. Mrs. Linsinger also – and my opinion covers with her – said that you would have to admit to yourself that you only believe your promises conditionally or only if they are actually implemented. Federal Chancellor! You've spoken about two years of karenz today for single-parents. Who has reduced Karenz's former two years to one and a half years? They feel that this is injustice, and I feel that today's APA release of the SPÖ "two years of karenz for single-parents" is bad as a cock. You know, of course, as well as I do, that since autumn last year, a Liberal's request has been in the National Council. There he is pushed back and forth like a hot potato. There he is postponed, then he is assigned to another committee after he has not been on the agenda for months. They don't even have the courage to actually confess color – and that's actually significant for the SPÖ women's policy. We know these demands and these promises already enough, they are largely party-tactical games. Since you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have been so "friendly" in the direction of coalition partners today as to how difficult the negotiations would have been, I ask you: What political weight do you have in this government? I also ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: What political weight do you have? I also ask you: How can I, as a woman, be confident that the pre-programmed large coalition in autumn will make little improvement in the situation of women? Because these party-political games – I would like to say that – are going through. As I'm seeing my colleague, Hlavac, right now. I would like to remind you of the first readings that took place on the subject of "two years of karenz" and on the other hand, in one of the last plenary sessions. These were also classic party-political games. Of course, this matter is no longer coming to committee, of course you no longer have to confess colour, of course we are not getting this matter here in plenary. However, we will be able to read again in the media how great the efforts of the SPÖ are, how much the SPÖ will do for women. However, I believe that the credibility of the SPÖ has already been annoyed in these questions, and I wonder if it is still present at all. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] Now to you, Mrs Gehrer: You release the notification today with 15 o'clock lockout: Equal opportunities is starting for women in education! That is also something I would say that it is quite annoyed, because you have fully announced 99 points on the promotion of girls, but you have rejected our requests for a conscious coordination. They were not present in the 35 hours of committee deliberations in the context of women's-people's desire, including in the chapter on women's and education, but here you will once again take the opportunity to play in the foreground. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A good minister can do this!]] In fact, but a good minister also implements and promises not only, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! If you are grateful for the measures taken to ensure social security, I ask you: Where is the independent social security scheme for all women? Her predecessors, Mrs Prammer, Mrs Dohnal and Mrs Konrad, have been much further in this area, and it is her colleague, Hostasch, who says: We must stick to co-insurance as an essential family policy instrument! Federal Chancellor! If you are grateful to have provided twice 600 million schilling for childcare facilities, I ask you: What Do You Believe You know how short the memory of the women in Austria is? Because: 1 billion schilling was originally promised anyway. In the savings package, this amount was reduced to 600 million schilling, and now 600 million schilling has been added under the pressure of the events. I'll tell you: That's far too little! In addition, other measures are missing. Federal Chancellor! It is not enough if there is an operational kindergarten in the Federal Chancellery. I ask you: Where are tax incentives for the establishment of farm kindergartens that we might need well? Where are – and that is what I say in the direction of the ÖVP – options for tax deductibility with negative tax on childcare? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] We have tabled a request on this subject, but You have him – you too, Mrs. Bauer! – with your votes rejected. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We could still go through many of these promises, but that is not enough time. Federal Chancellor! If you explain here how positive it is that you have hired two section heads, I must tell you: Fine, I am pleased!, but if you look at the Federal Equality Report, you will be able to see that, in many areas – I come to the conclusion – significant steps are being taken, especially in senior bodies. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] One more thing: During the ambassador occupation – and there you can probably say ambassador occupation – you have shared...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3184	Please, no more new topic!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3200	This is my final sentence, which I am now rounding out. – You have shown your face together during the ambassador's occupation. In Austria, I know not only single ambassadors who are floating in the distance. They take women with them under these working conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3227	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. The voluntary time limit is specified with 7 minutes, the maximum is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3248	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Prammer! Mrs Gehrer! Mr Bartenstein! Mr Schaffenrath, you have now drawn very black, and even if I admit that I too am too slow and that so far much has not been possible to implement what we wanted, I believe that we can point to some important improvements. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Why?]] The Federal Chancellor has deliberately spoken of an interim balance sheet, since it is of course not possible to implement difficult social complex reforms within a short time. We can try to establish framework conditions, we can try to establish legal equality, we can promote it in practice, but we cannot declare it. For reasons of time, I do not want to address in detail the improvements in the previous legislative period, but I would like to highlight some of them, for example the support of the Minister of Women for certain women's projects: for emergency calls, for intervention agencies and for many more. There has been a clear improvement, and the budget has been multiplied. There has also been approval of the "sleepless night" action carried out a few days ago. I think that this was a good thing, and I think that we can achieve something together, yes, yes. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: How long have we been demanding this?]] For example, the Federal Minister has pledged that there will be longer-term support for these organisations so that they can better plan. I believe that this is a common success. The link between the award of public contracts and the promotion of women – at least in part of the department – is also positive. I would also like to ask the members of the Federal Government who are here and who have not yet done so to follow this example and to link the award of contracts to women's promotion. Since May 1997, the law on protection against violence in the family has been in force. It will be improved in the next few days. There have been few employees since 1. In January 1998, the possibility of preferential insurance. A favourable means of insurance for caregivers has also been created. The calculation of child rearing periods has been further improved, the operating aid for self-employed people has been increased. Of course you are right: We also need a review in the field of public services, with regard to the highest functions. But it's not easy to do that. There are successes with the section heads, there are successes in the Constitutional Court. I am all the more sorry that in the Court of Auditors there has not now been a woman on the train who is highly qualified and who would certainly have been able to take over a section management. I would like to say to the 600 million schilling for childcare: You write in your urgent request and you have now explained it again in such a way that these 18,000 children's care places are actually a bagatelle. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: It's not much for a billion people who took away women!]] But you must bear in mind that this is not at all the responsibility of the federal government, but that it is an additional achievement. And that's why it's not just a signal, it's actually a real support for childcare facilities in the federal states. In 1999 there are 600 million schilling again. Although the League is not responsible for this, it has done a substantial job there. Ladies and gentlemen! I could, of course, continue the list of measures: Introduction of the karenz-time account – something that women certainly have a very important role to play in reducing small and medium-sized incomes in tax reform. – This too is something that greatly benefits women. But that does not mean that we can be content with reluctance, on the contrary. A number of improvements were planned by us, but we did not find the majority here. That's just a fact. As the first reading was addressed to requests: Our requests have been here for over a year. In this context, I would just like to mention the request concerning the extension of the retention period. It is about the fact that mothers who go to Karenz can also be sure that they can keep their jobs. [[Abg. Ollinger: He has been rejected!]] There has been no majority for this. You know exactly that our coalition partner is not for this, but the Liberal Forum has not been for it so far. They have not taken action to implement this measure. There is a difference between your economic liberalism and the claim that you want to realize these concerns of women's desire. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Hot Potato!]] That's not right in this area right now. If Mrs Schmidt now asks Mr Vergestnitsch what he has done for the same wage for equivalent work: The trade unions are undoubtedly doing something for it. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: The Liberals' request was rejected!]] For example, we now have a de facto minimum wage of 15 000 s in the area of metal workers. [[Abg. Gaugg: What does this have to do with equal treatment?]] I wonder what is happening in your area. What is Mr Hazelsteiner doing in his economic empire? What does he do for the demand for equal pay for equivalent work? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen – and this is the central question for us – we are not so much concerned with cash benefits for working mothers, but it is a matter of priority for them to be able to work as well. Therefore, the money for childcare, therefore, our requests for retention period, part-time work after karenz and all these things we have long called for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. We have a number of demands, ideas and plans – age assurance, minimum security in the field of emergency aid – and we are also ready to have discussions about other ideas. For us, this issue is certainly not completed with the end of the legislative period. We will continue to negotiate.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3376	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. You suggested 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3397	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition parties in this House are already trying, in the third run, to beat political little money out of the women's desire. That's legitimate, the elections are right in front of the door. I understand that. Let me say for a moment that we have clearly taken a position by the Austrian People's Party that we are absolutely meeting with the analysis and objectives of the women's desire, but not with the wording and with the measures it intends. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From our point of view, it is therefore not possible to enforce all the formulations and wishes of the women's people's desire, because much in practical implementation proves to be counterproductive. Mrs Schmidt has today raised two points, which we also see as such, namely that this could even destroy women's jobs: It concerns the retention period and the guaranteed right to part-time, i.e. the right to part-time up to the sixth year of the child's life. We see this as well and have expressed our concern about this, because our greatest interest must be in meeting the needs of women, who now have become the need of number one wish for a job. We have therefore not promised to put this women's popular desire to the point and the comma. We think it is unfair to say that because it is not possible and because it is not desirable from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we trust the judgment of the women, who, from their personal point of view, are able to imagine from their personal situation the solutions and, ultimately, the measures that can be implemented. The implementation balance is also absolutely positive, although not yet fully satisfactory. I can fully endorse the last words of my previous speaker: We will still need a long time to achieve better conditions for women, and new needs will arise now because many things change. We from the Austrian People's Party have particularly adopted various areas in recent years, and we have been very successful. For example, I would like to draw attention to the better billing of child rearing periods for the pension, to the calculation of care periods for the pension. To this end, I should like to say that our wishes go far beyond those of the women's people's desire, because à la longue we wish for retirement times so that insurance gaps can actually be closed for women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The break-up of the rigid regime, not to be deserved to pay for it, has always been a great concern for us, and we have been able to enforce it. It is absurd if we are trying to help women to get back on the way, if, at the same time, their contact with the company has to stop completely, if they do not even make a holiday representative, let alone be able to train themselves on new technical facilities of the company. I would also like to refer briefly to the Karenz time account, which is just ahead of the decision-making process. The flexibility of the law on working time, which you do not approve, Mrs Schmidt, is certainly an essential step. You may be able to do something in large businesses with a pragmatic legal step, but in the small and medium-sized enterprises, which I have heard and always noted, you are also a big concern and which create most jobs for women, it is difficult to enforce it. I therefore believe that in these cases operating agreements are very positive. The family audit of the family minister is particularly good. In my own district, I have a case in which a woman-friendliness farm has been awarded, and I can tell you: This has caused an immense vortex, because the interest of competitors is great. Everyone wants to know: What have they done, where are the points, how can you apply, how can you do it? We see, these examples, too, and we do not always need legal regulations or forced measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have put in place a large number of measures in the field of justice, and my fellow Members will continue to address them. For example, the protection of victims in the event of violence against women was a far cry from our chairman of the Committee on Justice. For childcare, where you always regret that these are twice 600 million schillings too small: There are always resources needed, and I do not want to devalue one or the other, but one says to you: It will not only be the public kindergartens that will be able to determine the offer of childcare in the future, because especially for single parents, who relate to the personal situation of women, day mothers, especially to infants, are still best. I was able to convince myself of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I too am in favour of social legal protection for the day-to-day mothers, but I must also say to the Federal Minister that the inclusion of the minor workers – and that was a lot of day-mothers because they might only have a day-child – in social security has caused many to lose their job. You have to see that too. I am nevertheless in favour of this measure, but in the end we must always keep in mind how these regulations affect the labour market. When the Federal Chancellor speaks of quality: Mr. Federal Chancellor! Quality assurance as regards day mothers, and the offer is a matter of the countries, and there is child care in the best hands. The individual federal states spend a lot of money on this. This is an example of our state of Lower Austria, because there is the kindergarten at a zero rate. I know that many others can't do that. [[Abg. May. Peter: At lunch!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Col., you are ill-informed. Get in touch! We also have wide opening hours and a good offer there, and we have more than 3,000 children in support of day-parents, who of course are well trained by individual organizations. So far, they have to do the training themselves and be highly qualified. Quality control makes self-evident – how could it be different? – parents, and they are very happy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One point that we are calling for – I am now coming to the demands – and which will continue to concern us for a long time is the same wage for equivalent work. It is almost a social shame that this was the first point of the women's movement and has not been solved for over a hundred years. In this respect, we also meant that we could approach the Swiss model a little bit like collective contracts, how to re-evaluate jobs. They have still been evaluated according to male criteria, and there is a real need to rethink. In this context, of course, I cannot leave the trade unions out of the responsibilities. There is a need for action, and there is no need for Parliament to act, but in this case the ladies and gentlemen of the trade unionists. There are, of course, many of our points open. Some of us cannot agree because we have different views about the ways. This concerns, for example, the tax deduction of child care, the pension-based billing of child rearing and care periods, various facilities within a family-friendly working environment, support for new self-employed people. The business centers are ultimately not. We now have at our disposal 4 million Schilling from Lower Austria, and we are trying to reach the women through the relevant chambers so that they can get know-how and support there – of course also financial support. We want – which is a family measure – the "carnation money for all" because we believe it would be socially fair, even for the children. If one child enjoys parental care, but the other does not, one has to do the same. It can't be that there are children whose mothers don't get any karenz money while other mothers get it. In the end, however, we also want an independent pension provision for women, with the splitting of pensions for us also in upright marriage and divorce as a very essential step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[16:42]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3472	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I should like to make the following statement: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany was appointed as President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The following resolution, adopted today, was adopted: ==References====External links== I entrust myself on a proposal from the Federal Chancellor for the duration of the prevention of the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, 8th and 9th. In July 1999, Elisabeth Gehrer, Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs, was represented." In addition, on the request of the Federal Chancellor, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany also adopted the following resolution: "On a proposal by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I entrust myself for the duration of the prevention of the Minister of State Defense Dr. Werner Fassleven on 8 May. July 1999 the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Martin Bartenstein with the representation." I would ask you to take note of this. The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brigitte Povysil. The speaking time was indicated at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3514	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A few years ago, in Pakistan, I had an experience that occurred when I drove the car to this special meeting today. I was in the Karakorum to climb the expedition mountain, and we had hired some carriers there to climb a 7 800 meters high mountain. The boss of these carriers welcomed us. He greeted the men with a handshake. He also welcomed me. I'm a woman, but I'm also a doctor, so I've been more neutrum for him. That means he's got me... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Well, I'm a doctor or a doctor; that's not so important to me. So he gave me his hand, but he didn't look at me, and he didn't greet the other women at all because he was not allowed to. That is not the case with us. Thank God no more. With us, the Federal Chancellor comes, state-bearing, smiling and with a firm handshake, and promises: We will implement all the demands of the women's people's desire! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I ask you: What disdain of women is the worse? After 28 years of socially democratically-led women's housing, we women are at the forefront, ladies and gentlemen. We represent 52% of the population and 7.5% of the unemployed, compared to men: 6.9 percent. 55 percent of women have studied Matura, 53 percent have studied, but: Women earn 30 percent less than their male colleagues. 64 percent of all teachers are female. 38 percent have a leadership position. There are 148 female and 1 429 male primary doctors in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Do you really know how much money money is used for public relations and for studies on women's affairs? It was in two years, 1998 and 1999, 4 million Schilling, while in the Consumer Protection Division 9 million Schilling were spent in these two years. However, no answer was given to the really important questions. What we women need, so that we have the same opportunities as the men in our country, is equal opportunities in work and occupation, is solidarity in economic security if we – and I still consider it to be a privilege – have children, and the opportunity to spend our age in dignity, namely with a pension insurance from which we can at least live. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The age pension for women was 9 364 S in 1997, 14 476 S, almost two thirds more, and 400,000 women had no pension at all. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The latter is a small but important issue. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But that wasn't woman-specific now – is it?]] But you are not at all concerned with the basic questions of women's needs. It is not a question of women's people's desire, ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democrats and also from the Liberals, but rather of expressing their ideological stamp on women's policy. But in contrast, always accuse us of having the women on the herd. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is – and if you know our life stories, you know that – an absurd, insurmountable ridiculousness. Please: I have graduated, graduated from my university, completed a specialist training, got divorced, had to raise a child as a single parent, then became a department head and now sit with you in Parliament. So: For what inventive reason – and many of our women have such a story – should we send the women back to the herd? No, no, no, Our demand is quite different. We are not saying that our path is the only path of salvation, quite contrary to you, but our great concern, which is important to us for the woman, is that she has absolute freedom of choice and opportunity in this country – just as a man does. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I will never impose my life course on anyone. If a woman chooses a large family after training if she chooses a job if she chooses a family and a profession, that is her full right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And this right is the only one of all the models currently under discussion that corresponds to our child care check, because this gives the woman a fixed sum of 5,700 s up to the sixth year of the child's life, which she can use according to her own appreciation. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's not your serious!]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Do you believe that yourself?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] And from the fourth year of life – you already have to listen to me, otherwise I can no longer talk about it – 3,000 s of it are intended. That is the point you all overlook: What is important for a woman so that she can live? – That she gets her job and her children, if she wants, under a hat, is economically insured and has a pension with which she can live. Why don't you talk to the population? She's excited about the babysitting check! And that it can be financed is no question at all. The feasibility study by Minister Bartenstein proved it, so he held it back for so long. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, on 17 November, you received a request from us on this point of view. ==References====External links== Our request that full consideration be given to child care periods and care periods, you also refused, on 28 March. ==References== That is to say, you reject all truly tangible family and women's policies. Federal Chancellor! They have not fulfilled any point of women's popular desire. You have all rejected our requests, and I must tell you quite honestly, you have left the women in the rain and sold them for stupid. Our free image – not only for women, but for people at all, for women and men – is to give people the freedom of choice to live their lives. We don't want to ideologise, we don't want to be congratulated either, and we don't sell the women for stupid, but we're in solidarity with the women who go their way, as we all go, as well as you go him. We still see it as a privilege to have children, and for that I stand, and for us is a job and family content.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3674	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Povysil is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In connection with this, I have a request that has been supported and signed by 20 Members, namely the desire to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which has just been announced by Mrs Povysil. As the desire is sufficiently supported, this will be done. Mr Bartenstein has been reported to speak. The speaking times in this debate are now 10 minutes without exception. This also applies to members of the government. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3707	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Federal Chancellor has already expressed the benefits of the Federal Government in recent years of the passing legislative period for women in that country. He pointed out improvements and, at the same time, that there is another way ahead of us, which will also be to go. This is, I believe, just as undisputed as the most important objectives that are being discussed here today. No, Mrs Povysil, I do not hold a feasibility study back to a babysitting check. [[Abg. Dr Povysil speaks to Members of her group.]] Excuse me for the abrupt disorder! I do not hold back the study, but it has already been discussed in the presence of your representatives in the Family Policy Advisory Council before the year. What is still to be done is to accept the final report, and that is the case in these weeks. There's no restraint. However, where there is reluctance, ladies and gentlemen, it is with regard to the assessment of short-term feasibility. You know, for a government group, a government representative, it is particularly important to keep in mind the financialability, and I tell you that the long-term vision of child care is an important family policy idea – the conception for this is also from my group, and I am grateful for the fact that you have taken over it – but what is now feasible is, in some way, the first step towards the childcare check, the extension of the care money to all women in this country, the "carnation money for all". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This "carnation money for all", ladies and gentlemen, can be financed with 840 million schilling a year. There is no need for tax increases, and these funds are available in the family compensation fund. Hiefor this, there is also much less money needed than for the project of an income-dependent pension fund, which you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are also discussing today. This would be an unprecedented increase in resources – according to our estimates, at least 4 billion schilling – if we were to base on the values that Mrs Frauen has once mentioned, namely, an average of 7 740 s, which would then make up the karenz money. This must be faced with: 840 million schilling for the "carp money for all", for the income-dependent karenz money at least 3.8 billion schilling. I may add: The Minister of Finance has made a positive statement on this, but with reference to the fact that there are other tax rates in Sweden, which he might then consider also for Austria. I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Schmidt for not having indiscriminately qualified in Bausch and Bogen all the points of women's desire for women's and in their sense, because I believe that, so much so that we can and should agree with many objectives, a differentiated approach is always better. Mrs Bauer from my group has already pointed out that, in particular, the right to part-time employment and the extension of the retention period may sound good, but it is too easy to become a self-employed woman for Austria's women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not now draw this wisdom from my own wealth of experience, ladies and gentlemen, but I have shown with many heads of staff from relevant companies in Austria that these things are much better suited to the level of business agreements; there we can and should do something like that. If this becomes a legal requirement, then it is especially true for women, for who is taking part today? – It is too much more than 90 percent the women. And this may be another entry-level disadvantage in addition to those women already have in the process of taking up new jobs today. So I am expressly grateful for this because we are really also of your opinion: These two points should not be implemented. That would not only be a woman-friendly thing, but it would be against the interests of women, and that would not be good. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum also referred to a dramatic deficit in Austria as regards the number of childcare places. – I would like to strongly oppose this, Mrs Schmidt. I agree with you that there are problems in terms of quality equipment, for example as regards the opening hours – because now the big holiday begins or has already begun in Vienna – because not every mother of Austria, even every father, has nine weeks of vacation. We know all of this. So: The daily opening hours, the annual opening hours, all of this should be improved, and Mr Bundeskanzler has already pointed out that, on the basis of the resolution of the National Council, the additional federal funds are spent, above all, on facilities for those under the age of three and for school children. But one thing I do not take from you, Mrs Schmidt: that a total of 145 000 childcare places are missing in Austria. That's not true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] No, no, no, That's only true – and that's a little too the ideological dispute on this issue between the Liberal Forum and us Christian Democrats – if you take all the kins who exist, and say that every child needs a childcare place. We come to a very important freedom of choice, which is therefore very important to us, because they call for young parents and especially young mothers. If you ask young mothers whether they prefer to care for children in their own home, in your own family or to give the child externally to a childcare facility until the age of two, do you know what answers you get? – 96 percent of these mothers say they prefer to care for their child at home, especially in these first years of life. – This is the freedom of choice we mean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last, because in such a debate it is about presenting different positions – the consensus points are quickly cut off –: Extension of the karenz time for single educators to two years. Of course, it was a very painful step, as was my group, as well as the measures taken in the course of the savings package, which led many of Austria's parents, many of Austria's women, to receive the benefit for only 18 months. That was a painful step. But when it comes to saying: We want to expand these possibilities to 24 months again!, as the Federal Chancellor has declared here as the objective of social democracy, as it can be clearly read in an issue today, I say: This must be done with us only on condition that we do not create two classes of women again, the single women and the non-alone educators. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You created them!]] When it comes to 24 months of karenz money, ladies and gentlemen of the House, then for all the women and men of Austria, then for all the mothers and fathers of Austria, but please do not create a two-class society, because this would create real discrimination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Stay on the ground of reality! Mr Oellinger! You know just as well as I do that in reality the karenz period is de facto used only by women – regardless of whether one is happy or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] About 1.5 percent of the population are males, i.e. 98.5% are women. If you want 24 months of leave for single parents, this would mean real discrimination for married mothers living in partnership. And that's not what's going on with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Didn't you say that this arrangement would make more men?]] Therefore: Whoever wants to discuss a carnage money for all of us – including for a period of 24 months – can do so of course, is cordially invited to do so, especially the coalition partner – but provided that this applies to all women and mothers, to all men and fathers, and not only to individual groups of women in our lan-de. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3819	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3841	Mr President. High house! Appreciated members of the Federal Government who have appeared here in sexual and party parity! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You are also individually responsible!]] This parity here probably also has a reason: It seems to be less about joint responsibility than about the separate preparation of electoral struggles and the safeguarding of positions. But it is good to hear from the Federal Government this in such a large number. It is less gratifying, however, to what has so far been achieved in the context of such a debate. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have, in preparation for this special meeting, looked at the requests made by the Green Club on Women's Policy in recent years, and I must say: This list is long. However, no single request was made by the government parties! This was a way of making it easier for the government to take out and prefer some kind of concern. No request of the women's people's desire, dressed in the form of a Greens' request, was accepted by the government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Yes, Mrs. Mertel, that's surprising for me! If so many women, above all by the SPÖ, have explained themselves verbally to the demands of the women's people's desire, but then this party has not even agreed to a single request, I find that not only surprising, but sad and embarrassing! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] I am now returning to a request – without any hope that it will be adopted. At any rate, I have listed all our requests in this regard and, Mr President, I do not have to read them in a four-page request, which will be printed in full in accordance with the Stenographical Protocol. This application relates to real equality – not only to equality before the law, but also to equality through the law – in the fields of education, the working world, pension, defence of sexual harassment, financial compensation in the event of violations, gender-neutral designation in all areas of social life and the working world, better parental protection, parity representation in committees and advisory bodies and special measures against trafficking in human beings, against trafficking in women, against discrimination against women and for foreign workers. A total of 50 points, corresponding to the applications already submitted, are summarised in one application. So you would now have the opportunity to actually contribute to a real improvement for women. As I said, My hope is that you will take this last opportunity in this legislative period, but it will be limited. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to give you once again this list of requests. [[The speaker handed over the Federal Minister of State Mag to the government bank. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] You, Mrs Federal Minister, have confirmed some of these points again today, and you have said how much you are concerned about this. – The opportunities to enforce this would have been there, however, have been playful. What has happened so far were savings packages, decided by both government parties, which have had a major impact on women. We know that, and that's documented. Now, here and today, the Federal Chancellor promises us a tax reform, which is supposed to work "fifths of families", and that is no longer what we look into. This then "naturally" – as it has always been – mainly works in favor of the better-earning part of the family, and that means – as was and still is today – that it is in favour of the men. Federal Minister Bartenstein! They talked about women opting for careers in the majority of cases. That you conclude that all women wanted to do so, and that must be the same in the long run, I find abundantly cynical. It is not a right to vote, but it is, as we know – and this is clear from the statistics of the labour market authorities – that Zig thousands of women, at least 50 000 women, would like to agree on work and children, but because of the lack of public transport, due to the lack of adequate childcare facilities, are forced to do so. – This also applies to the address of Mrs Primaria Povysil. It is not true that anyone would absolve the right of women to vote. If a woman – I think, however, there are very few who really want to do so – between school education and the retirement age wants to care exclusively for the household, of course this must be accepted. I just don't think this is a state and social-political model – and not a smart model in the sense of a modern economy. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] With the load packs, something was taken away from women, which now largely migrates to men or to the nebulous term "family". That is, one has "redistributed": from the women to the men. Since the Federal Chancellor mentioned the increase in the female employment rate: Yes, Federal Chancellor, this is formally true – only if you look at the figures in detail can you see how sad that looks! The "job miracle" à la Austria is mainly due to an almost explosion-like increase in small employment relationships. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: That's not true!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer: They are not in the statistics!]] Between May 1998 and May 1999, the number of minor employment relationships increased by 12.7 percent. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Perhaps the management of the labour market provides incorrect data, but I do not think so, because I know the staff there and I know that these are very reliable. This increase means 21 600 in absolute amounts. In the same period – and I am immediately referring to what you have addressed – the number of employed persons in total has increased by only 0.8 percent or by 23 500. In other words, this increase is mainly due to the low employment account. You can also see this clearly by means of job vacancies published in newspapers. We can all read, Mr. Federal Chancellor, most of them! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] The government's policy of announcement always gives us new flowers. – However, what has not yet happened is real measures to ensure equality between women. This Federal Government has been extremely active in the production of white papers; White books are clearly called 'that's why no one knows what to do after the elections. In terms of advertising campaigns, major activities are also being carried out by the Federal Government. The following - I must say that, Mrs Federal Minister - really hit me deeply, something I did not think possible. I am already in favour of advertising, either in the area of women's housing, for the fact that the consciousness in society is changing more quickly in this respect than it would otherwise be, only: If a woman minister no longer advertises with a striking slogan such as "half-and-half" on private life, on the family, where the men are more involved, on the working world in which women claim their fair share, especially in the chief days, but when a women's minister advertises for a "child-friendly Austria" – and this please, without making provision for an appropriate infrastructure – this really talks about the women's policy of the Federal Government. Women's policy on the part of the Federal Government is almost as good as it is no longer. Ladies and gentlemen! The finding – after several new editions of the great coalition – is that women's policies have been turned over in secret and with tolerance of social democracy and that, instead, in advertising campaigns, the images of well-kept little children are tried to praise women as a "female policy measure". [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It is high time that there was again a genuine feminist, a women's policy that deserves this name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3996	The motion for a resolution, which Mrs Dr Petrovic has briefly referred to in her statement, has been properly presented. It has an exceptionally large scale, so that its distribution and reproduction has been caused within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. The application is under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4194	I now give the floor to Mr Mag. Barmüller's word. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4216	Federal Chancellor! My wives and Minister of State! Mr President. In fact, such a debate can only be started with the bumper: Johanna Dohnal, see if you can. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] [[Call: She's not dead]] [[Abg. Bures: When Johanna Dohnal was a minister, you said something completely different!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Don't the liberals have machos?]] I wonder, What would women's policy in our country be if all those people who are now sitting behind me on the government bank were replaced by Johanna Dohnal? – Answer: Then women's policy would be far better, ladies and gentlemen, than what was tried to sell to the honourable Member today by the Chancellor as a "success". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] You will not have experienced this by me, Mr. Deputies. However, I can recall very well that the machos in the government groups of Johanna Dohnal did not suffer very much, and I think that is a reason why women's policy in our country has so little progressed so far, because, although the machos in the government parties have now equipped themselves with a better "wording" but have not changed their basic beliefs at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Take a look at a hazelsteiner operation, Mr. Colleague!]] [[New call of the abg. Bures.]] For example, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of your Vienna councillor, Ederer, who, while negotiating the distribution of all the companies in the city of Vienna into its own company, did not say the trade unionists: With you we conclude this agreement, but a SPÖ man had to do so, because with a woman these trade unionists did not want to enter into a contract. – You know this story. I am not envying Mrs. Stadtratin Ederer for this society. [[Abg. Koppler: Check out a hazelsteiner operation! You'd just be so amazed!]] The fact that Mr Koppler is speaking right now is speaking volumes. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, this is.... No, I am not saying that now, I am not saying it at all, because, Mr Koppeller, that would be dangerous, and I do not want to do so; I do not want to do so. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In any event, I would like to stress with what ambiguity – including by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – this discussion is being held, after all, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: We continue to fight for equality! – We are pleased, of course, and we will be happy to support this struggle, only: How is that done? After 14 years of great coalition, how will this fight be fought? After 28 years of Women's State Secretariat, now its own Federal Ministry of Women's Affairs, social democratically occupied: What's really been done? The Federal Chancellor said: In the social democratic sectors, we have ensured that women's promotion plans will be taken into account in the future when awarding contracts. – In the red resorts, but not in the black ones? As you can see from this example, there are obviously two Austria – the "color teaching" – that is. Federal Chancellor! Has Is it really a waste of thought that the award of contracts is regulated by law and that, at all events, it is an administrative means, but it is not possible to deduce any law?- Oh, my God! Did you ever waste a thought, Mr Federal Chancellor, that this can be a problem from inequality, if you do so with a decree, but have no legal basis for it at all?- Oh, my God! I am very surprised that not everyone here is aware of how disturbed the relationship with the rule of law has become in Austria! For example, I say this in advance of our request concerning the setting up of an investigation committee in the Causa Omofuma, that the Director-General for Public Security is present in Austria and can say: Adhesiveness of the mouth, apart from the EMRK, is in the right-hand room. In the right-hand room, please! I have not heard from any of the Federal Government that this would be a real scandal if the Director-General for Public Security said: If you leave the Constitutional Law, there is actually no provision for it! And that is where the same Director-General for Public Security says in relation to the Security Police Act: We would have liked to do this already, because now we have to do it all in the right-hand space! – Is there perhaps not the Article 18 B-VG, according to which the administration is to be exercised by law?- Oh, my God! – This with the "right-free space" Sika said please in a "ciB 2 interview, in a live broadcast. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: On the matter!]] This is precisely the case, because it shows the disturbed relationship of this federal government to the rule of law when it does so. . I am telling you this above all because what Mr Bundeskanzler has said could have been done with regard to the Federal Procurement Act. ==References====External links== January 1998, you have the § 16 para. 7 in which it now means – I quote –: In the award procedure, consideration should be given to the environmental justice of the performance and the employment of persons in the training relationship. – Just "take thought", ladies and gentlemen, but not anymore. At this time, the women's desire has also been negotiated here in the house, and in point 1 of this popular desire it is said – I quote – that: Enterprises receive promotion and public contracts only if they ensure that women are represented at all hierarchical levels according to their share of the population. - Quote. This makes it clear: As far as the apprentices are concerned, it was worth deciding on a novel of the federal award law – but as far as the women are concerned, all of this was not worth yours. The Federal Chancellor – but now he wants to be mis-quoted by a newspaper – has announced that he will ensure that the women's people's desire is implemented on a point-by-point basis, but has not done anything to bring about a legal change in the law change for apprentices as well as with regard to women! In such a case, it would only have been a consideration – no more! All of this, however, has not happened. They do not fight for equal treatment for women in our country, because they do it as well as in the provision of stolen property: Although the Federal Government is in principle in favour of a provision, it does not do anything if it does. – And the Federal Government also advocates equal treatment, but when it comes to it, it does nothing either. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in future we will no longer have to hold such discussions before such empty lines as is now the case. Even the SPÖ series – and I expect nothing else from some others – are now shaky occupied. But we also know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4392	Mrs Dr. Mertel with a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes – please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4413	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Mrs Petrovic, you have already carried out – and this has actually sounded quite credible, so that almost I myself would have started to believe it – that the number of minor employees is included in the employment statistics. – I would like to expressly point out here that small numbers of employees who are declared monthly by the AMS are not included in the employment rate. The number of minor employees is added to these figures. I would like to expressly hold here, ladies and gentlemen: The SPÖ stood and is behind the demands of the women's people's desire, and that is why it is because 27 percent of the SPÖ voters signed this women's popular desire, which is why such a distinct number of votes came together. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: They will be beautifully disappointed!]] It was clear to all of us, however, that these demands in women's-people's desire cannot be implemented one thing; in this respect I am in the company of Mrs Schmidt, who is also in favour of the "Salzburger Nachricht" – to be read in the issue of the 25th edition. March 1999 – expressed. For us from the SPÖ, it was important for a public debate on women's issues to be held in order to re-establish public awareness. In any case, we from SPÖ welcome all initiatives to promote equality between women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we all know that women's policy is a laborious way. Of course, sometimes we would prefer revolutions rather than the slow path of reforms. Revolutions, however, are known to change less. Short-, medium- and long-term programmes determine women's policy – and, unfortunately, long-term programmes – therefore: All 11 points of women's desire are not as fast and can be achieved on the same path. [[Calls of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] In addition: All 11 points of women's desire are very important, but they are not the only ones that are crucial to women. I do not wish to repeat measures put forward in this context, but the Federal Chancellor has already given a detailed opinion on this. However, I would like to point out that many of our demands for majority relations fail here in the House, including in the case of opposition. I would also like to say that these demands are fundamental and comprehensive changes to the social system. In this context, for example, I refer to the right to basic pension. In my opinion, it is also about demands that cannot be prescribed by law, such as a minimum income of 15 000 S, which was decided at the last ÖGB Women's Congress. The task of the ÖGB is now to realize that. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ is also ready to take steps in this regard. ==References== In April 1999, the SPÖ Equal Treatment Committee has made proposals in each of the negotiations with the FPÖ... Excuse me many times; Mr Gaugg. [[Abg. Gaugg: Unfortunately not with us, because then it would have already been implemented!]] So these applications have been negotiated with the ÖVP, but we have failed, I admit, and this is happening in a democratic process. Our position, that of the SPÖ, of women's desire and of women's policy is set out in the minority report of the Equal Treatment Committee. The link between public procurement and the promotion of women has also been maintained, which is already being carried out in the ministries managed by the SPÖ. I am not going to say anything about "caravan money for all" now, because I have done so very often in speeches here; moreover, Mr Bartenstein is no longer here. Only so much: If, in connection with the karenz period, a "two-class society" is spoken of, if single parents have no opportunity to share with a partner, but those who are married have very good opportunities to share, I am very surprised. [[Abg. Gaugg: How do you want to check this? Sniffing in the bedroom – or how?]] Since Mrs Schaffenrath here said that SPÖ would have a credibility problem, I would like to say to her: She, Mrs Schaffenrath, called 1.2 billion schilling for childcare facilities far too low. – A few days ago, a congress of the Liberal Forum took place. And what was demanded of this one, ladies and gentlemen? – The government ratio should be reduced from 47 to 40 percent. How is that supposed to happen? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But do you know how to compensate for this?]] You, Mrs Schaffenrath, want to extend the expenses of the state at childcare facilities or other things you enjoy, but to limit others. But that's not how it works. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It makes no sense to simply say here that nothing has gone on at all. [[Abg. Smolle: Women's policy does not mean more state, Mrs Colleague!]] Her submissions, Mrs Schaffenrath, are nothing but political calculation. [[New calls to the Liberal Forum.]] But there are those who learn slowly, such as Mr. Khol of the ÖVP; he learns slowly. For example, he calls women's policy "orchideen themes"; some things he assigns to the flora, others to the fauna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] It's interesting that you're talking louder than I am with microphone. But there are also those who learn quickly, such as Mrs Schmidt and the Liberal Forum, and you learn quickly from calculator, I suppose. And I can't assume that you're also setting up candidates for the NR election of calculation and making a rotation of 180 degrees in your opinion! Everything from calcule, because there is just an election campaign: away from the liberal concept of economic society, in which women's promotion is considered only as a burden, to the supposed women's party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs Schaffenrath, you have also refused to award a public contract to women-promoting companies and have rejected it as "world-wide foreign". I come to the conclusion, because here at the speaker's desk the lamp has already flashed for some time, and note: There is no doubt that it was a strength of the women's people's desire that there was an initiative behind it, a driving force capable of acting across parties and resisting party political attempts – at least so far. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Now don't be sad!]] [[Further call to the Liberal Forum.]] In the SPÖ, there are really dedicated competitors, there are fighters and fighters for the things of women – but not only at election times, Mrs Schaffenrath! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] We have always been open to this task, and we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4578	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4619	My dear women Federal ministers! Mr State Secretary! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! The legal equality of man and woman, namely equality before the law, is almost achieved in our country – but not the equality in reality. Injustices in practical life, especially for women, are still there, and to eliminate them was the goal of women's popular desire. We have, of course, acknowledged this, and we have also tried to gradually eliminate the inequalities in reality. But you can do it in different ways. How to achieve this goal, which is probably undisputed here in this Chamber, there are several and different ways to do so. We have not been able to go the same way in all respects as in the women's desire. At the end of the legislative period, we have endeavored honestly to deal with those things that were to be settled by law in order to eliminate even existing injustices for women. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has given a very detailed opinion in his remarks, and the Minister of Family Affairs has stated that legal changes to the welfare of women have also been made where family and work for women are to be reconciled. Let me also say, ladies and gentlemen, that in the Committee on Justice, we have been able to achieve several things for women. Just think, for example, of the law against violence in the family, of the legal provisions relating to immaterial compensation for mistreated women – not only in the event of injury to the body, but also in the case of the injured. It is the only case where there is a charge for intangible damage in the Austrian legal order. Furthermore, we have decided on a matrimonial law that is characterised by a partnership principle. In this too, we have been able to eliminate injustices against women. For example, there is now a right to maintenance in money for women. With regard to divorce, we have also noted that women who are devoted to child rearing are not in the rain after divorce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We were also able to achieve the following – and I am proud of that: Victim protection has been brought to justice debate on the ÖVP initiative. And we have also achieved that treatment for abused women is paid by the health insurance fund. No question: In addition, further reforms are necessary, particularly with regard to the compatibility of work and family, the safeguarding of those women who are dedicated to child rearing, as well as with regard to an uneven wage level. But there, Mrs. Prammer, you're a good man. In this respect, there have been long-standing requests from the ÖVP, but you do not want to deal with them. It is therefore not the case that there are only applications for opposition which are not dealt with in the absence of majority voting, but also ÖVP requests are unfortunately not approved by the coalition partner. In this context, I would like to mention, for example, the issue of redefinition, re-evaluation of work or the pension problem in women who have not been working for enough or not for a sufficient period of time. All this is unsolved, please! We propose a compensation model, a model based on the guiding principle that both spouses share in the same portions of the solicitorships acquired during marriage. This would put budgetary management and employment at a stage and include pension lawyers in the divisional mass in divorce. This model has been known in Germany since the end of the 1970s; Switzerland goes beyond that and even establishes a legal claim over the splitting. We brought in this model. Unfortunately, there has not even been a willingness to talk on the issue of "pension insurance for women" on the part of the coalition partner. I hope that in the next coalition negotiations – with any partner – it will be a condition of the ÖVP that this will come.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4698	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg, with a scheduled speaking time of 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4719	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, it becomes clear that the question of equality between men and women has not gone further than a single millimeter. It's just foamy engagement, it's just hypocritical negotiations about millimeters! The only thing that Mrs Hawlicek has thought of in order to improve the profession was the collective treaty of the metallurgicals! That was all that came out of the result. [[Calls:Hawlicek]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mrs Hawlicek is no longer in Parliament!]] - What's your name? Hlavac! Excuse me, that can happen. Mrs Hawkiek has left at least a more lasting impression. I'm just wondering why you left or left courage. They are, after all, those who constantly animated in this direction and call on you in advance organisations such as the Trade Union Confederation and similar more on such measures – up to Mr. Federal Chancellor, who explains himself and says that each single point will be implemented. – The thing is just: He will not be there for a long time as Federal Chancellor, and there will still be no point in women's popular desire. This is shocking and throws a significant light on the image you deliver here. [[Abg. Bures: Do you have anything to say on the question of women?- Oh, my God!]] He's talking about business women's centers. That may be commendable, but it really goes hand in hand with the problems of working women and women as a whole! As Mrs Schmidt, who has founded this urgent question today, was still with us, she often had the opportunity to meet those women who are suffering from your social policy, who have to work on the tape, who are working on inhuman conditions in businesses and who have to work at inhuman times. They are not even able to organize child care facilities in such a way that they are attractive to working mothers! And that's what you call social policy. I'll tell you one thing: In this question, you have... Mrs Schmidt! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] That you have justified the urgent request here and today was somewhat peculiar, and your credibility was rather at zero. I'll tell you why. They advocate the same-sex marriage, you advocate the liberalisation of drugs, and you advocate the abolition of crucifix in schools. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes!]] – That’s the only thing about your policy. But just before the elections you leave here and believe that you are now the nation's women's politician! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What do you stand for?! The babysitting check is anti-female!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How was voted in Tirol, Mrs Schaffenrath?]] I'll tell you one thing: You too are not credible in this question – and will never be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals and the SPÖ, in particular! What is the need of the active woman? In the question of self-employment, in the question of self-realization? [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You spell better than you talk! You spell better than you talk! Book it once!]] Please, what's the matter with you? You complain that the women are absent, but you are the Master Teacher in this club anyway. But Mrs Schmidt was not in the hall during your debate. Apparently she can't hear you anymore, or she might have heard your speech. What is also significant for this government is the way in which it deals with this women's desire. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Keep talking, don't spell!]] – Should I give you Book your election results from the EU election? Do you want me to spell it out in detail? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We can do this, but we can do it privately, Mr Barmüller. What is shocking is dealing with popular desires in general. This federal government does not matter if there are popular desires in Austria or not. That's the shaking! I'm not talking about the content yet and trying to implement this content. This does not happen even if they are signed by hundreds of thousands. In fact, this is deplorable. But before the elections and during the current legislative period, hundreds of millions of schilling is invested in press releases. Mr Bartenstein is currently doing this. Because recently too many red ministers have publicly presented themselves and used taxpayers, Minister Bartenstein is now making poster actions instead of making the money available for reasonable things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] - Smolle, you mustn't talk with me at all. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Smolle.]] – In the question of social affairs, I would be careful in your place because... [[Abg. Smolle: I would ask you to come to the subject soon! Your time's up!]] Dear Mr Smolle! One thing I can tell you: It is clear to you that you are now re-negotiating with other parties in order to perhaps come back to Parliament with another party. You've been to two parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are proposals from the liberals for family support, for example the childcare check. – In addition, a reflective no of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Not at all! Reflexively not, but justified!]] All the money we have in this area is spent on hoards, kindergartens and extrafamily education, but no schilling is one willing to make available when it comes to maternal and family education. That's your kind of politics! When you could no longer finance old-age care, you immediately introduced the care allowance. But now in the childcare check, this must not take place because it is an idea of the liberals, although you know that their funding is secured through the family compensation fund. It is secured if you use the funds that are paid for it. But you are well-known for the fact that you are constantly and repeatedly using resources intended for families and children – up to the cover of ÖBB deficits in the past. This is your form of politics! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Edler and Mr Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Fuchs: Austria has the highest child allowance in Europe!]] It is also necessary to point out that the tax packages you have caused have taken away 20 billion Shilling families, that the reduction in the family tax compensation fund will remove a further 9 billion Schilling families, and that some 140 000 children in Austria – and perhaps there will be some time to laugh to Member Barmüller – will live in families where per capita income is below 7 500 s. Maybe you're having a laugh. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That's why we're talking about basic security, even for children!! Book now – and sit!]] This should give you some thought and move you to end your constant grin on the problems of the Austrians and especially the children. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That should make you think. We Liberals make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I say to you here and today: You'll have to go to 3. Block October, but then it will be introduced. And then you'll try again to put him as your invention. This will not happen, however, because we will inform the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5000	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Gaugg has just read, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Gaugg, this was just a low point of the debate, because someone is taking action against discrimination against homosexuals as an argument for not being able to take action against discrimination against women, which must first be pre-recorded, Mr Gaugg. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] But the problem of the debate is really – and I am therefore with the government, ladies and gentlemen – that it is significant how this debate is going about. Well, the urgent request was addressed to the Chancellor, the chancellor had the floor. But that, after the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the family minister was allowed to speak first of all before perhaps a woman, namely the Minister of Women, who, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, showed the importance of women's policy in the Federal Government! That's really embarrassing! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: She doesn't want to!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You might add: For over 60 minutes now, we have had to hear opinions from the government parties – from the government banks – in the context of a urgent request. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You weren't in the hall all the time!]] However, this debate on a urgent question is actually an instrument of the National Council and not an instrument of the Federal Government which wishes to present itself at this occasion. This has been held here once too. But I come to the point, ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that all speakers – speakers of all the parties represented here, from Gaugg to speakers of the ÖVP – address the concerns of the women’s people’s desire, their goals and desires, in their mouths, but then, when it comes to concrete implementation of them as well, one separates from the embrace of the women’s people’s desire and allows it to be used by saying: Unfortunately, we can't do that – not that, not that! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I now turn to the statements of the Federal Chancellor. He meant: We're going to have to work on it! But we are glad that there has been support from the women's people's desire, and we would be pleased to be able to expect it in the future! The fact is, however, that only in the area of pensions, which I would like to begin with an important area, through the measures the Federal Government has introduced in the form of the structural adjustment laws, do women's pensions fall again in terms of male pensions. That's what you've achieved with the development in recent years. I can read to you, Mrs Reitsamer, the figures: As a whole, the average female pension in 1995 was 53.5% of the average male pension, 52.4% in 1997, and 51.7% in 1998. You have reached falling women's pensions, and I can also tell you why, Mrs Reitsamer, if you also want to know: This resulted in the measures adopted under the Structural Adjustment Act. In this way you have achieved that men are being encouraged again because it is now playing a greater role in working longer, that they work without interruption, and that is a typical employment biography that women cannot show because they have to interrupt their professional activity. The men have favoured you through the pension reform, and this is a development that will not even come to a halt in the next few years, that is, when child rearing times are taken up again. You can't stop this trend. But that is a concrete result of your policy. In the past, when my colleague, Mr Petrovic, spoke, there was a violent headshake on the government bank when it came to outline how the development of employment has been in recent years. Mr Petrovic also referred to the situation of minor employees. In this context, I would like to inform you, Mrs Federal Minister, of what the development of full-time workers and part-time workers looks like. In June 1996, there were 2.6 million full - time workers, and in June 1998 there were 46 000 fewer. In the case of parttime workers, the number has increased, but only by 76 000. This means that the minimum of full-time workers could not be compensated for by the increase in part-time workers, who have much lower wages and a much worse social security in retirement. Is this a success of your employment policy?- Oh, my God! I have not yet referred to the minor employees who are really miserable, because there is really a lot in the wrong way, even if you believe that you have made progress with the possibility of buying a pension insurance and health insurance on your own from the 3 000 S. That is not progress! They also draw those groups that would really need to get the money out of their pocket, under the pretext of having made a contribution to social security. I now come to another point, namely emergency aid. The Federal Chancellor said: Partner income account! There's nothing you can do! In the debate on maintenance accounting, which took place here in this House a few weeks ago, there were also very clear opinions from the government parties. I would like to say the following: When it comes to, for example, the DDSG transfer rules, Mr Vergestnich knows that the social income generated by DDSG employees is not included in the emergency aid. That's okay, too! But all big incomes are included in women's lives, Mr Vergestnich. And you too agree here in the National Council's plenary when it comes to rejecting a corresponding request from the Greens, or any political group. It's all about women, that's what it says: We're sorry, we can't, we don't have money, we can't! It would be unfair if the women who receive maintenance were also to receive emergency aid! – This was the argument put forward by the government parties on this issue. But if it is a question of taking certain social achievements, which are quite understandable, from a work relationship, to obtain a salary or social income if one no longer works, because one knows that this group of persons has nothing else and therefore also needs emergency aid, then the government parties are in favour. But this usually only affects the men. – The women are hard-hearted, still, and they can't go until now. Unfortunately, this is to be said about the policy of the government parties on this issue. It has explained to Mr Bartenstein, who has given his statement here, but has already left us again, that it was painful when, in the savings package I, the single woman had to be removed for half a year. [[Abg. Kiss: Such a banal nonsense!]] – I have to say: Mr Bartenstein was really noticed: When he explained this, he knew that he was saying the untruth, for already in the next sentence he explained that he did not find it right to give them back the half year of karenz, which was taken away by the single parents. Do you know what was taken away by these measures in the savings package – not only for single-parents – but only for women, and that concerns only women? – 3 billion schilling! [[Abg. Kiss: Mother alone!]] But now Mr Bartenstein says: I have something in my pocket, at least one or two billion schillings, but this money does not get those women we took away from, but this money is supposed to get other women. This is the lying policy, which is quite practised by the government parties, ladies and gentlemen. You can't characterise it any differently, because if you make yourself here and still feel the pain, but just in the next sentence you say: That's all right, no, no, there's no back, we're standing for it!, that's really a bad policy, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to say: 650 000 people have signed the women's desire. These are not very few, and these people also have expectations of politics. You have not offered anything here today except phrases, general confessions, praises of the good policy of recent years, which could only give rise to the assumption that, in the four years following the next elections, you would be prepared to change your policy of the last four years only in the same way. And that's the real problem!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5120	Mr Dr Kier came to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5142	Mr President. My women Federal ministers! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is the accusation in the room that such a urgent request serves to make political change. First of all, I would like to take a brief look at this. It is true that we are taking stock of the failure of this federal government's women's policy. This has something to do with money, we are doing – I want to use this picture – a cassass, and we note that the Federal Chancellor has announced from here that he is still sympathetic to the goals of the women's popular desire, but that he has made only statements of intent – which are admittedly positive. I just don't think that's enough for a federal chancellor. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this case, an account is expected from a Federal Chancellor, and he is expected to be accountable for the successes achieved. It can then be admitted that some claim has not yet been implemented. But the total of his statements were actually very negative. Red figures mark the budget in women's issues, everywhere is a minus ahead. I think that's bad. But above all, I was concerned that the Chancellor had said that he was in favour of the self-determined life of women. I can only say: No, I hope so. But what does he mean by that when this self-determined life finally consists in the fact that – self-determined – one has to do so right and bad, because there are no real options at all. Only when you have actual options can you realize your personal life plan. However, the courses become sociopolitical, labour law et cetera pp. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The glass ceiling is not an invention! The glass ceiling is a kind of dead end through redirect. Redirection signs are constructed, and then you land somewhere in the Nirwana with your own career. This is actually the perfide of this policy: At the first moment, some people look sympathetic – they say: Aha, there's something going on at the karenz money! – but the follow-up effects are not considered, for example, the re-entry is not observed. I just think these things are bad. In this sense, I am convinced that we are trying to beat political change here. I'll bet you do that! It's time to make a casserole! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] It is time to tell the 650 000 women and men who signed the women's desire what has become of their concerns. These have been beautifully spoken at first – but now they are carried to the grave. And this is unfair and, in particular, not understandable, because it is ultimately only for Mr. Federal Chancellor and his party whether he remains in this coalition or not. The dangerous threat of continuing it is in space, and then it will continue as it has been. Therefore, a public debate cannot be avoided if one wants to be honest, and I therefore believe that, for example, the "carnation money for all" of Mr Bartenstein's Federal Minister is more honest, because he says at least what he wants. However, that he then says beautifyingly that he does not want to create two classes of women is defying. I would have hoped that he would say: two classes of parents, but he said: two classes of women, because he does not realize that single parents must replace both parents, stand in the profession and have no other choice at all. This so-called class society of the Federal Minister Bartenstein is therefore exposed. However, she combines herself very nicely with the findings of the colleague Povysil. Colleague Povysil said that she would like the "care for all" to be a bridge to the childcare check, because if the "care money for all" is introduced, then the childcare check is no longer far from its realization. All those who don't want to do that just want to put their ideological stamp on it. – I say: If one represents a certain social policy position, which focuses on achieving equal opportunities for women and not just promising it, then it is an ideological position, and I acknowledge that. This does not mean, however, that one wants to force someone to do so; that is, to create the conditions for such a thing. But there is a need to help. Mr Mertel! - She's not in the hall now. – As you have made us here allegations regarding the question of women and strange side-lifting towards the companies of my colleague Haselsteiner, I say to you: First: Look Once you've reached these establishments before you talk! Secondly, I think I can recall that sometime the SPÖ decided that 40 per cent of women should be represented in all areas. But where are these 40 percent women at SPÖ? Not even with yourself realize that! That is why you must not be surprised at the fact that you are setting yourself a 40 per cent latte, far below it, and then reach even less in government policy, because if you demand 40 per cent of women and do not even implement this claim in your own field, how should you be taken seriously by the government partner if you only give hot air of yourself? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In order to address the comments of Mr Gaugg: Only because Haider does not achieve the child care check in Carinthia’s lack of performance is it not a good idea to shift the same – I avoid a force expression – trick to the federal level, for one thing is quite certain: [[Call the Freeman: Wait! Wait!]] As long as there is a somewhat enlightened majority here in this House, as long as the head of state of Carinthia will not be able to fulfill his unfulfilled promises at the expense of the federal government. That is why we are going to be liberals in any case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5195	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5217	Mr President. High house! I am surprised that some speakers are surprised that four members of the government have been present here today – now there are three more – because today, as I mean, this is a serious issue. It is an issue which concerns all members of the government and which is to be dealt with by all. That is why I think it is important that the members of the government – if they have time – come here to the National Council. It shows that we are taking this issue very seriously and that it is a matter of genuinely implementing objectives towards improving the situation of women, equal treatment for women and equality between women. In my group, we have also been very serious about women's desire. We have always said that we cannot fully support all the individual measures, but we really want to work fully on the objective. Many measures concerning women have also been implemented in this legislative period in the field of justice, social security and family affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, in the field of education, we have set out 99 measures to ensure equality between girls in education, and measures for conscious coordination. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: 99 balloons!]] You know: With some of the applications, it is quite simple to ask yourself, if you have already determined all this before and if you come back after the request: Why should I actually agree with this proposal if we have already established the conscious coordination in these 99 points when we have already implemented more than a third of these 99 points to promote women and girls in the education sector? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That's probably not your serious, Mrs. Federal Minister! You know it was different!]] – As far as the other points are concerned, we are still at work. At a National Council meeting in April 1998, I also mentioned all the points that are already being implemented. I think it is necessary for us to work together on the objectives of conscious coordination, that we should include this conscious coordination in the new study plans of the educational academies. This is already taken into account in teacher education and training. A study has also been carried out on the educational motivation of girls. The number of graduates is shown by the fact that girls in particular have a catch-up process. In 1970 the proportion of girls was 34 percent, and in 1998 it was 55 percent. In 1970, the proportion of students in the studies was 39 percent, now it is 53 percent. So we see: It's a huge catch-up process in progress. The educational opportunities for girls are greater than ever. We need to contribute even more to the fact that girls go into unusual occupations, that girls also take technical professions, that girls can be more trained in natural sciences. We have therefore also begun this priority work. Ladies and gentlemen! It is said again and again that we need a gender-neutral formulation in the language. It is relatively difficult for me to write instead of "man" "wife", but "human". This seems to me a bit funny in some areas. I would make a different proposal: For so many decades, male forms have always been taken, and all women have felt affected. I suggest that we use the female form for some time in the future and all men feel affected. Then it looks easier in the various texts. [[Congratulations with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that many of the measures still need to be taken. We need the binding quota system in various areas, women who form networks, but we also need responsibility for children. I do not understand why in a parliament children are played against women, women against men, women against families. I mean, we should see the totality of life and not constantly play one against the other, because I believe that women's policy is also family policy. You can't separate that from each other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What must certainly still happen: many things in the heads of some men. Because some of them also thought that the machos were just in the other parties: I think it's everywhere to find. I mean, there is still a lot to change in men's attitudes. Many women have emancipated, but men have remained in the old forms of behavior, and they have to get out of there. Even Professor Correspondent says: We need the new man! – namely the man who emancipates himself into the family, the man who also wants to see his children grow up. Ladies and gentlemen! As a woman, I do not want to let anyone prescribe a role. However, I would like to bear the responsibility I assume if I can start a family if I have children. The task of society is to create the appropriate framework conditions so that this responsibility can be borne. It is also the task of society to support families, and the task of society is to create choices and not to prescribe binding roles. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why the model of the future must be the model of the 21st century. In my opinion, the century is a real partnership between man and woman!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5288	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5309	Mr President. Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! On the urgent question concerning women's desire, I can only emphasize thickly all that has already been clearly explained by my colleagues today! I would just like to address one point now, namely the ever-increasing legal minimum wage. A fixed wage has a negative effect on workers and workers in industry. As an example, I would like to point out to the U.S. where a state wage fixing is the rule. The hourly wage is between 40 S and 50 S, but remains the same for years, regardless of whether it is better for the entrepreneur due to the economic situation or not, because since wages are fixed for the employee and for the employee, they remain on the track. For a better understanding, I would like to draw on Austrian shoe production as an example. There are ski shoes, mountain shoes and also light footwear. Since there are very large price differences in the production of the respective varieties and the labour cost is also different, the hourly wage of the workers would be lower for a "low" product by 25 s. In Austria, however, we are able to find an internal regulation to avoid such a scarcity of wages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is simply important for us to be able to regulate this ourselves in such cases; therefore, the collective contractual partners are also an important part of our system. In those cases where there is no collective contractual partner, the legislator may introduce a minimum wage scheme by means of a regulation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask all those who are always talking about it once again to support the implementation of equal treatment and equality between women – and not just to talk about it. We have tabled a number of proposals which, unfortunately, are not supported by the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5351	I now give the floor to Mrs Gatterer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5372	Mr President. Mrs Gehrer! Mrs Prammer! Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor no longer gives us his well-known smile, he no longer lends us his ear in the debate. [[Abg. Grabner: The Bartenstein either!]] High house! Women have a long course of patience behind them. I think the popular desire has shown that many women say: We no longer bring this patience, because desire and reality, law and reality are too far apart! The chancellor has promised to put point-by-point. I think: Too much promised, then also broken! . From the outset, the ÖVP has said that women's people's desire is an important impulse, but it is not possible, from its side, to fully support this women's desire, because many points in it do not correspond to what good women's policy should be. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You needed that again!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the very beginning, we agreed in the ÖVP that our keyword is "responsibility" instead of "promise"! For there are some points in the women's desire, in view of which one simply has to raise the courage to the truth and ask: What points are really good for women? What can be done? What is a help to women, and what is an obstacle to women? The EIA is committed to a meaningful improvement in the situation of women in many areas. I think that in the government we have achieved some improvements together, such as improved opportunities for training – Mrs Gehrer has already brought the 100-point programme – which has already been addressed for the better consideration of child rearing times for the pension, the inclusion of those people with little employment into pension insurance – the fact that they can now insure themselves has already been addressed several times – but also in the field of justice, for example, the right of directions or improved victim protection, as well as the large area of the karence that we will adopt next week, and which will bring substantial improvements to the karenz for mothers, but also for fathers. In my opinion, however, it must also be said that three essential points are still open: One essential point is that it cannot be satisfied that the differences in income between men and women are still so high. This has an impact – up to the pensions: The average age pension for a woman is 8 368 s, whereas the average age pension for a man is 14 457 p. – Mrs Prammer, the ÖVP, in the course of the discussion on women's desire, has requested that you, together with the Minister for Social Affairs, submit a proposal to re-evaluate work. [[Federal Minister Mag. Prammer: But you know that the social partners...!]] We believe that it is only possible with new answers that we can finally achieve a fair reward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also need women's promotion plans, because it has been shown in many countries that the positive motivation of the economy can be achieved much more than by punishment. We need the partnership between the economy, the woman and the family. We need social security. It is still open whether the compensation or the pension split will come. For I think it cannot be assumed that there are a large number of women who do not have an independent pension claim and, above all, in the case of divorce, they really become social cases. We must also try to ensure that child rearing times are taken into account on grounds of retirement – this is also a requirement of the ÖVP, which we will continue to address in the future as well as the issue of "workplace: The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of In our view, it is necessary to create new, socially sound jobs in this area. We need the partnership between women and the state when it comes to social security, and not least, like the "Familiesminister" – I am immediately learning from Mrs Gehrer, who says that all titles should be female in the future – the family minister has already explained in detail that the partnership, the family, will be lived. Minister Bartenstein has done a lot for women! In my opinion, justice and partnership can only exist in cooperation between men and women, between politics and the economy. And the ÖVP stands neither for the red housewife allergy nor for the blue patent recipes, but for us the freedom of choice of the woman to live her independent life – with or without a family – is the most important thing to reconcile work and family. [[Abg. Oils: The Black Night!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5465	Mrs Aumayr has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5487	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! We are not only discussing discrimination against women, which is still taking place in our country, but we are also discussing today – already for the x-th time! – on discrimination against voters. It is truly indescribable how this federal government deals with the political will of citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There thousands, hundreds of thousands of women and men go to the parish office, declare themselves, sign a popular desire, and thus demonstrate their political will. And what does this federal government do with these will-consultations? – There are a few hours of discussion in the Subcommittee, then this will be dealt with briefly in Parliament – and the matter is over. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: As always!]] Thus happens with the genetic engineering people's desire, with the women's people's desire, with the animal protection people's desire; with every popular desire, the Federal Government proceeds in this way. This is really a political scandal! We liberals have already made a three-fold request that people's desire should be subject to a referendum with over 500 000 signatures. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Good proposal!]] But every time the government rejects this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is, you have no interest at all in what citizens in our country want. They only want the citizens to give you their vote at the elections! However, this will be the case to an ever smaller extent. Second point: Mrs Bundesminister, we cannot discuss women's desire without looking closely at your role, the role of women's minister. I can tell you how this is: adapted, kind and good! During the budgetary negotiations you, Mrs Federal Minister, have on my question what point You asked for more budget resources, replied: in none! So you were satisfied with all the budget resources that you, as it were, had fallen under the table as a brocade. But at the women's demonstration, which recently took place before the Federal Chancellor's Office, you'll be mediativating and saying: Come with Marie! In the budgetary negotiations, Mrs Bundesminister, you should not have been silent, but at the time you should have said: Come with Marie! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's it!]] And now to the third point, Mrs Minister: The babysitting check is a piece of freedom for those women who say yes to the child! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, the most important and also the most difficult task in a state is the education of a child. Thank God many more women say yes to the child. Thank God many women still take on this responsibility and effort. We liberals say: These women have deserved to set up policies, to legislate, to implement laws which conclude with the dependence and exploitation of these women in favour of society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why we're going to run this babysitting check!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5585	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Stoisits. Still speaking time of your club: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5606	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mrs Prammer! Thank you, Mrs Gehrer! Mr. State Secretary! 52 minutes today, the Federal Chancellor has devoted his attention to women's policy and therefore to Austria's women! 52 minutes – remarkable! Ladies and gentlemen do not have the opportunity to speak for so long because there are clear rules of procedure in this regard. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank God! I remember the horror scene your colleague once played! You filibuster!]] The Federal Chancellor, however, has the privilege of using an unclear provision of the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing against the fact that the Federal Chancellor speaks here for a long time and intensively, but would only wish me that it would also be inhalable. That is it, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of a legislative period 52 minutes dedicated to women and all that in the end with the sentence – I wrote that down, I think it was in the 53. Minutes – so to speak, that we have achieved something together! I do not know, however, whether he has referred this "we" to Mrs Prammer or to colleagues from the Socialist Group or to Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister who was sitting here on the government bank before, or whether he has called to the House, for example, that we have achieved something together. [[Abg. Oillinger: To the men in the Federal Government!]] So at least I didn't refer to myself, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't do anything with him or him with me! The Greens, as Mr Petrovic has already listed to you, in preparation for this meeting – including our own work on what we have worked out in positions – have summarized everything and looked at how many requests the Greens have made and what the Social Democrats have made – not the Chancellor, I admit, because he is not a Member, he is in the executive, so in the implementation - have actually said on our demands. In addition, I would like to say to all these clarifications of the demands of the women's people that I think it is most appealing to me when speakers – and above all the Members of the ÖVP – have done it exclusively to my colleague – come down to this pult and say what they do not like about this women's people's desire, which sentence and which point and which addition and what else is missing. I can only say that you are supposed to put on your feet an initiative for the 650 000 men and women with their signature, or not with their signature alone, but by physically going to a constituency. This is much more difficult than when the family association distributes any lists to its members or when parties collect internal signatures. In the case of women's people's desire, people have gone into a constituency, and this effort has been made to support something. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum are quite right about what they have called the urgent question of today's special meeting: Empty promises – no single point has been implemented! Ladies and gentlemen! Even small things that cost nothing were not implemented! I am not talking about those 17 billion schillings that have been saved at the expense of women. Of course, they have also benefited women on detours, because this famous bill in the debate on tax reform says that someone who earns 10 000 S grosss benefits from the reform most of the time, while someone in our income class – which we are sitting here – has only a few thousands of them in the month with 100 000 S gross. The others have so much! But we already know that, and I believe that this is the most anti-female of all arguments; Mr Gatterer mentioned the differences in income in employment and the retirement age. That's blatant! That's the crux! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you are not already active – with this I mean the executive, say: the Federal Government, in the implementation and in the parliament legalistically in legislative projects – if nothing happens, then you can't even create a very clear, clear sign that is opposed to this re-establishing of a conservative role image, as it has been mentioned several times today, that is what scares me the most and most outraged as a woman. In the past, "Emanze" was the false word, today we have already developed to the point that it already sounds pejorative, already negative when a woman claims to be feminist or feminist. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who is responsible for this?]] And this is above all a criticism of the or a request to the Social Democrats, which shows what the command of the hour would be. I do not repeat what has not happened. I should like to remind you, Mrs Federal Minister, that, as I have said, I cannot say – that the representatives of women's affairs have the mood, the image of the opinion, of course, are very important. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Rüffel!]] Mrs Aumayr, with whom I am practically nothing but the fact that we are both female, has just categorized you as "like and good". [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God! There we are very happy!]] That would not be my words, but my criticism is that you are not a Garantin with your person and not that there is a resistance to this resurgence of conservative women's image. [[Abg. Kiss: Talk time! That's enough! Mr President.]] But that's exactly what I'd expect! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] And that is it, Mrs Federal Minister, which you can still represent in the public, if Parliament is closed and nothing more is decided on. [[Abg. Kiss: Talk time!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can no longer talk about this now, but the 145 000 childcare places missing for the implementation of equal opportunities will be you... [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] I will also be able to speak a little longer, such as Mr Bundeskanzler. 52 minutes were talking about women's policy! This right...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5752	Madam President, unfortunately you can no longer speak because the speaking time is limited in terms of business regulations and you will not ask me to violate the Rules of Procedure. [[In the case of the Greens and representatives of the Liberal Forum for the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Yes, but the Rules of Procedure apply to the Chancellor.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Then you will become Federal Chancellor!]] Mrs Buder has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5797	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is as follows: We would, we wanted, we wanted and we demanded! – Now, since the time of the election campaign begins, the Liberals are discovering the concerns of women, and a special session must be here to support two of the women’s people’s desires, who now want to become LIF delegates. In its last clause, the Liberals set out their priorities for the National Council election. ==References====External links== In June 1999, these topics include the new working world, generation fairness and democracy and the rule of law. I have not read anything about women's policy as a priority. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Then you didn't listen to me!]] And I still think that the Liberal Forum is an entrepreneurship party. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Then you did not understand that...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has always been the Social Democrats and above all the Social Democrats who have tried to achieve improvements for women. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's the shame!]] I would also like to mention two champions here in Parliament: our comrades Rosa Jochmann and Hertha Firnberg. [[Abg. Scheibner: But in the present you have nothing left to offer! In the past, yes, but not in the present – as in many areas!]] There are very likely to be applications in the 16th century. ==References== Unfortunately, these Social Democratic requests do not agree with this House. But I believe that perhaps a time will come when this will change and the opinion will change here too. If you think from the LIF that promises have supposedly disintegrated into air, I have to remind you of the great improvements it has made since the 1. In 1998 there were small employees. Today, these women also have a health and pension insurance! You all know how it really works. We women and also men know what the job offer for women looks like, including those women who would like to have a full-time job. In these offers, for example, I quote: Seven salesmen are being searched for with well-kept exteriors. Ideally, they are between 22 and 30 years old, customer-friendly and bring sales experience. What is expected of these women? – That they are flexible, from Monday to Saturday, both in the morning and in the afternoon, between 6.30 a.m. and 7.30 p.m. There will be a part-time employment rate of 15 hours per week! – In this respect, the economy, companies are required. The LIF is also required to cooperate in the fact that a lot of changes are taking place on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have created this part-time work, you are very proud of it!]] In your urgent request, you complain that only 18 800 childcare facilities have been created throughout the country. But all those women who have thus received a babysitting place are happy about it. And they are also glad that there will be 1.2 billion schilling in the future. While the Liberal Forum is always calling for action to combat violence in the family and to create a mother-in-law training, we have already acted in Parliament: Austria has a world-wide law on protection against violence in the family, Austria has also established a training centre for women's mothers in cooperation with other EU countries. Mrs Schaffenrath! In view of the fact that you were on 25 June. In a press release in September 1998, I should like to remind you that the predecessor of the current Mrs Minister has already set up a business centre. There is also a secondary office in Graz. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I'm trying to get that!]] With us, women are very happy that they can turn there and get support there. In my opinion, the Minister for Economic Affairs could also be reminded to support these women more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have many wishes, and the SPÖ program and especially the SPÖ women is directional. I think these are exactly the concerns that plague women. We want the right to part-time work and, of course, a retention period of 26 weeks. The fact that single women are to be paid for two years is a matter of course, because unfortunately some women, when the child is born, no longer have a man. But at least they should get financial support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5911	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 4 minutes, total speaking time for the ÖVP club: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5933	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Equality is beginning in the head, which has already been mentioned today. – I agree. However, the implementation is more complex than we wish for at the first moment. But that is the same with other laws. The fact that this implementation, or the measures to implement, reflects the particular ideological facets and ideas about male and female imagery, is indeed a possible task in a democracy. In the context of such a debate, it should also be shown that the parties have different access to a problem. Of course, it is gratifying that gender policy has been able to carry on much more than some would like to have, in order to be able to take advantage of it and to interpret it themselves. I would like to point out some of the successes that have already been mentioned, namely, first – according to the motto "Women's policy begins in the head" – in education. It was the People's Party that wanted and demanded more information for girls in terms of their choice of emphasis on training, such as technical or textile works. In some cases, thanks to our initiative, this information is already being implemented better and more often. It was the People's Party that called for more professional and study choice to benefit from the experience we have already gained with the third- and fourth-class students in primary school and AHS in order to provide more information in the last and last class of AHS and BHS. At that time, the girls and boys are in the situation of being able to decide once again what professional choices they want to make. It was Mrs Gehrer who introduced the principle of equal treatment for girls and women in teaching. A principle of teaching represents a multidisciplinary teaching and education content, which affects all subjects, all teachers. It is Mrs Gehrer who develops and evaluates further, what happens in the area of sensitive co-dukation, for example in the Bundesgymnasium Rahlgasse and the Bundesrealgymnasium Schopenhauerstraße as well as in other schools. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How much teaching principle is that?]] – Whether it is the sixth or the seventh, Mr Schweitzer, is insignificant. It is important that it is implemented! And that's up to us, to the teachers. This is up to the teachers. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I doubt that this is the government's responsibility!]] You can't do that from here. I also believe that it is important to look at women's promotion points for science and research by ministers. One point in this is certainly counterproductive, namely the proposal, the habilitation – and that is only why! – abolish it because it is awarded in an old-boy network. I have already said at this point, Young-Scientists Network – "male and female" – is better for me! When we get to this level, women are no longer aware of their desire, their professionalism and their qualifications. Finally, in the Federal Equal Treatment Act, which has recently been adopted, we have achieved a better creation of the women's lawyers, the equal treatment officer in this field. That's a good way. Because we have therefore de facto equated them to staff representatives. What I say in conclusion – because one aspect will still be carried out by my colleague Horngacher – is this: We from the People's Party and also from me as a person have never said that we can agree with the women's people's desire on these ten points. We have different solutions to various problems. We're honest with this. We have not said that we are in line with the views of the proponents on point-by-point. We therefore have nothing to admit today, nothing to confess and not to apologize, but to say honestly: There is the People's Party programme here, which does not nationalise women, but puts them in freedom of choice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5982	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Still speaking time for your club: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6003	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gehrer first wondered that some parliamentarians meant: Why do four ministers come to this House when we discuss women's desire? Mrs Gehrer – she is no longer here now – I am not surprised that four members of the government are here. I wonder, however, that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic only found it worth 50 minutes to talk about this issue here – then he was no longer there. It was exactly 52 minutes that he was here, Mrs. Stoisits said. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Just 52 minutes, it was worth the Chancellor of the Federal Republic to discuss his given and subsequently broken promise to put the women's-popular point into practice. That is something to think about, ladies and gentlemen. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has today had to be shown black on white that no one demand for this women's desire has been met, although he has been committed to putting it into practice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have to get used to the fact that the Chancellor makes promises which, hardly have been pronounced, are also broken again. For example, he said that there will not be an apprentice without an apprenticeship. That was about a year ago. The fact is that today 14 000 apprentices are without a job! 3 billion schillings are loosened – so it's called – to employ all apprentices. But despite his guarantees, the Federal Chancellor did not make sure that all apprentices were given an apprenticeship place. Promise – not kept! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima has also promised a five-point programme to abolish the party's protest after the tragic suicide of Mr. Praschak. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's a good topic!]] - Look out, Mrs. Mertel! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's where we talk about Haider in Carinthia!]] A horrendous trap has taken place in recent weeks for the occupation of the ambassadors. That is what we are making the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany an accusation! He did not abolish the party's propaganda, but quite the contrary: He's been heavily involved in this mailer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Mertel, you should read the newspapers once you're not such an insider in your party, so that you're more aware of this post chess story, which was really ungustical. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Alone Rulership...!]] We have become witnesses, how havoc has been made and what counter-actions have taken place when it came to the reconstruction of EU Agriculture Commissioner Fischler. There has been auctioned, traded and pokerd between SPÖ and ÖVP, as it should no longer be! This has been the really negative sign of this red-black proporz government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The five-point programme, which Mr Klima has promised to abolish the party's propaganda, he has promised, but has not kept. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Kelag!]] The resumé that voters can draw on the elections in advance is that a German chancellor, who always promises something but keeps nothing, is actually an unfit Chancellor; after that they should judge. [[Kelag! Call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Mertel, I cannot imagine that you were satisfied with what Mr Bundeskanzler has presented here today. It was really blamable what the Federal Chancellor here gave of himself. He has acted as if the SPÖ had only taken over its government work yesterday and should only now proceed to bring the processed car back to the right track. He said: In principle, the women's people's desire contains a clear mandate to the government. – Why has he not fulfilled this clear mission in recent years, in this legislative period? He said: We are not at the goal of our wishes. – Why are we not at the goal of our wishes? The Federal Chancellor has promised that at the end of this legislative period we will be at the end of our wishes. He also said: We know that the problems are difficult. – In doing so, he drew attention to the disastrous expression of former Chancellor Sinowatz, who said: "It's all very complicated." We have long known that the problems are very difficult and not easy to solve. But I'm asking you: Why has the Federal Chancellor here made a promise to take care of the implementation of this popular desire? I would also like to say one thing to you, perhaps to the Federal Chancellor: He said that in the Socialist Ministries women can also take senior positions. . I shall present the equal treatment report to you. This shows, for example, that there is no single section head in the Ministry of the Interior. In the Department of Science, 41 percent of employees are female, but there is no single section leader, and only 14 percent are group leaders. Verwaltungsgerichtshof, Constitutional Court – that is what the Federal Chancellor has done. But there are only five judges in the highest public courts! [[Abg. Kiermaier: Kelag!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Chancellor has not only proved that the issue is not worth it, but he has also proved, with his answer, that he has no idea of the real situation of women. You're going to do that to him, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6150	Mrs Bures has now come to speak. You have a speaking time of 3 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6171	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Partik-Pablé, not only now you, but Your group as a whole has proved here today that the question of solving women's problems and the question of the situation of women is such a thing of nothing value and, so to speak, completely far away from your political activity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't need to cut the Chancellor out now!]] You yourself have given a speech to the women's people's desire here today – which you can hold on any subject – which, as it were, only consisted of insults by the Federal Chancellor, who was not present for 52 minutes, but who answered a request for 52 minutes, otherwise listened to the debate and, moreover, did not miss out on your statements! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where is the Federal Chancellor? Where is he? 52 minutes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I do not want to leave my speaking time as pointless as it was in your speech, but to take the opportunity to say something. [[Abg. Scheibner: Such a superlative thing! You abuse the women for your ideological games!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of the liberals) Don't be so wretched!]] Ladies and gentlemen have said that a great deal has happened in this country. I am one of those women's politicians who are very proud of the women's ministers of social democracy both in the past and in the present. But there is also dissatisfaction with the question of the implementation of the demands of women's people's desire. The Socialist Group has therefore submitted a minority report in the course of the debate on women's people's desire, in which we have made it clear that the demands are to be implemented much faster and more efficiently. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You cannot be satisfied with the fact that women still deserve less than men!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What have you achieved in the last ten years?]] Mrs Petrovic! Because you are the Federal Minister Your proposals have been submitted to you, I am submitting to you the minority report of the Socialist Group, which lists our demands on women's policy issues. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 20 billion schillings you have the families...!]] It takes parliamentary majority in order to be able to implement something. Unfortunately, we do not have these parliamentary majority groups, and this must be noted as a democratic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who's in the government? You've been in government for 30 years!]] I would like to make two brief points because the debate has shown how different the access points are. I mean, the confession. "We all love women" is of course not enough, but it is about which interests of women and which groups of women are represented. It is clear to us social democrats: It's those women who need help. It is those women who are employed as single women under difficult conditions and who also have to raise their children under difficult conditions. [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't listen to my colleague Povysil!]] That is, these are the women we represent. It is not enough to say that the single parent is otherwise good – Mr Bartenstein! There are two classes of children. One single parent is only available to her child for one and a half years in the care and care period, and then there are others; the fathers are asked to finally go on a karenz leave, then the child would have two years of care time if they made use of this possibility. [[Abg. Scheibner: 30 years SPÖ government!]] I hope that at some point you will have children and that you will also be able to use the time of your leave, Mr Scheibner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Legal claim to childcare facilities – these are the points in which it is not about state alms. I am looking for all those who have tried in the debate today to ignore the success of women: They do not render good service to women. It is about getting the women's people's desire and the women's movement backwind in order to achieve an improvement in women's society. Although some in this room do not fit into the concept: I can assure you that the Social Democrats will continue to stand up for the independence and independence of women.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6369	Mrs Horngacher is speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6390	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear women ministers! The Liberal Forum has today called for this special meeting because it wants to know what measures have been taken in women's policy. I would now like to add a few words as a representative of the farmers. There has been a number of improvements. ==References== The introduction of health insurance for farmers will be decided on in January 1998. There was the possibility to raise and valorize the weekly fee. All these things and some others have helped the farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have also increased the importance of farmers. They understand this and are grateful for it. Also through targeted training measures, self-confidence and self-confidence could be increased. In my own country alone, more than 40 000 women attend our events every year. That too is women's policy. If Mrs. Prammer says, To achieve equal opportunities and equal rights for all women is the logical goal, so I give her absolutely right, but I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to think of all women and to do something! You think too much of the self-employed woman. There are also other life patterns and other women to consider. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I would like to point out once again that the Carenz money is a very essential requirement for greater justice for all. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] If all the money comes from the family compensation fund, there is no longer any reason why farmers receive only half of the money, housewives and students do not receive any care money. We are not going to go away from this demand. On the other hand, I also believe that we should do everything we can to ensure that every woman comes to her own pension right in the future. This too is a command of the hour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] However, I do not want to support a women's policy that harms the family.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6454	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6470	The happiness of a woman is more than just a career and a career: It also includes a good family life. This is where we need to set the framework for this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6500	It has now spoken to Mrs Dr Schmidt. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6521	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Let me make a brief response to Mrs Bunder. Where is she? – She meant that the Liberals would only now and otherwise not care about women’s issues. First: Look You're looking at our political work in the past! I have a very clear conscience that this is not an action before an election campaign. If you call the election themes, you're right. With regard to democracy, you may not have heard me say that the fact that half of the population is treated worse than the other part, because of their sex, is the biggest democratic deficit at all. Therefore, the term "democracy" should also be understood in this issue. - That's just for you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not want to spread about the fact that you are right that this has always been a concern for the Social Democrats. But look at the balance sheet! That's exactly what we've listed. Now I'm not saying it all went so fast. That's clear to me. I am also aware of where the obstacles lie, including the ideological obstacles. That's exactly the point! But one thing has also made this debate very clear. This debate has made clear – Mr Oellinger has noticed this very correctly – that in this House, most of the family policy is either equated with and confused with women's policy, or that family policy and women's policy are mentioned as one. This is particularly clear at the ÖVP. The opinion has already been expressed that these two departments could be summarized. This is a clear language, but also that when Mrs Fekter lists measures that are family policy measures and wants to sell them as women's policy. Or also Mrs Povysil; I am quite clear what is all that fits together for a possible coalition, but also what messages are supposed to be: It's always about the woman as a mother, it's about the woman as part of the family, and – that's the evil thing with all these things – it's also that role that's being strengthened, which means: The responsibility for the child has the wife. Now I'm telling you the following: If all of us – including liberals – this is also included in our urgent request – here the karenz scheme is an issue, I say: In my opinion, apart from the protection of mothers, the karenz scheme is not an implementation of a women's right. Karenz is not a women's right, the karenz age is a child's right! Karenztime is the child's right to care by a parent! That is why you are so wonderfully exposed by the ÖVP if you make a difference whether the single mother may be with her child for a year and a half or two, or if, according to your ideas, it is an intact family, consisting of father and mother, two years are available. With this, you are deprived of the child's right to a parent, and I think that's incredible! You can also see the really bad upgrade between women's rights and children's rights. That's something completely different! It's my appeal to you to finally keep these things apart. For this reason, it is a sign that you are still making a difference and that you are not making it possible for single parents who assume responsibility for the enforcement of their child's right to live that responsibility. You can see that it is very important for you to always keep the form – but you are not concerned with the internal task! You can see that even if you don't have confidence in the good that you can protect. Therefore, you make a difference which life partners are allowed to take from a witness, so you make a difference who is likely to have a registered partnership or not. That's all because it's about your shape. But we are concerned with the content. Let me tell you something about women: Women's and family policies are two different pairs of shoes, just as men's and family policies are two different pairs of shoes, which can only be grouped under one roof – from me. Women's policy means making women independent. Because only then do they have the opportunity to choose at all. Do not tell everyone that you are in favour of women having a choice! If someone has no driver's license and I put him two cars, one with chauffeur and one without chauffeur, and if I tell him to choose one, then he has no choice because he has not been made independent! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It was the concern of today to make this clear.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6596	It still has Mrs. Mag. Prammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6617	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's disgusting! MEPs have the last word, not the ministers.]] The women have the last word, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You commit abuse by doing so!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I would like to give Mrs Klubobfrau Schmidt the right to say what she has now said, even though I do not want to give her right in some of the things that have been asked in this urgent question today, namely that today in this House very often there is a question of family policy and not of women's policy, and so on some and so some of the word "woman" is only very reluctant about lips, if at the same time the family is mentioned. [[Abg. Gaugg: This is no more parliamentarianism!]] [[Further calls to the liberals]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign again]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Why are you hiding for three hours?]] Not that we all have something against good, worldly family policy. But don't go on the women's back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That's incredible! That's never happened at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is socialism pure! Class fight within the women!]] If there are no other arguments, then we cannot "suspect" economic measures. Ladies and gentlemen! We can also support economic measures if they are in the interests of women. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why don't you tell us at 3:00?]] I would like to mention a few points. Today there has been so much talk about public procurement and the promotion of women. I have often and often communicated it, Mr Barmüller: We didn't violate the law. We have moved within the framework of the law and legal possibilities and have proved it. In the meantime, many European states are interested in this model, which the Social Democratic Governments hold on to: it is very likely that there will be incentives in the award of public contracts to give the advantage or even surcharges of those establishments that put in place women-promoting measures. We have also done the same with regard to apprenticeship problems. For except that it is a sentence in the award being that this is to be taken into account – that has already been said today – the whole has not lived. It now lives, namely in the social-democratic areas of government, since we put these new rules, these new measures, these new opportunities in public procurement. Something else has happened: From now on, all those companies that participate in public contracts – including thresholds – must make an affidavit in the social-democratic government departments that they have not discriminated against women and have not been condemned by courts for doing so, since there are no statistics and no registers. If ever the evidence is given, they are in danger of being charged with the penalty of the Convention. It is only in this way that we finally have a tool in our hands to put the right, including the right to equal treatment, into practice and to live. I am really proud of this measure. Not that it would already be rich – we will have to gain many, many experiences in this area – but I am convinced that we are on the right track. At the same time, there is another point because it is so important to me, namely part-time work, the right to part-time work. There is also evidence for this: There has been no company in Sweden that would have been exposed to the risk of suddenly having no more chances of survival. Look at the Swedish regulations! There, for example, parents have the opportunity to say until the eighth year of the child's life: I want to work for only 30 hours now, and you, dear company, have to guarantee and take this into account, because that is simply necessary! – With the final effect that above all much more men do part-time work when children are small! Why should this not be made viable in Austria too, and why should this not be implemented in Austria too? – For this reason, a 100% commitment to this point of women's desire! Among the few points that are still particularly important to me – I am now unable to address everyone – is the promotion of women's projects. This is particularly up-to-date, even because an initiative was launched by women's organisations for women's projects only last week. I am sorry to have to say that there has also been a complaint here because, by the Minister of the Family, those women's projects, if they have made family offers, the promotions have been deleted. Now I could say: The "evil" family minister is no longer paying! – I certainly do not do this, but the Chancellor and I have worked together to help the women’s projects directly and at least to break off what has been lost on the other side. That is, I'm going to jump in where a gap was created. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have also commissioned the following – the women’s emergency calls also know –: We have six women's emergency calls in Austria. For all who do not know: Women's emergency calls are necessary in particular for all those situations in which sexual violence and, above all, rape – not in the family sector; for this, there are own institutions. It is always necessary for women to need female contacts. Five of these six women's emergency calls were always extremely badly secured. I have now guaranteed these five emergency calls with the support of the Federal Chancellor that they will receive a three-year contract such as my women's service posts and at least 600 000 S each year in these three years. I am convinced that I have done much to give these essential, important institutions a real guarantee that they can work professionally in the interests of women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not true that my resources have become less. My resources have become more important to God – not that they would be enough, and not that it would also be necessary to pursue completely new concepts! I have already said that we need a comprehensive network of women's counseling and women's services. I have had an evaluation study prepared for this purpose. It's in the rough draft. I will continue to conduct this raw study, this report with the women's services services in July and draw conclusions from it so that we can really come to a comprehensive network, so that we also know what offers are necessary and how we can finance the whole. I also believe that the political declaration – the political responsibility we have to bear – needs that women can work in the most professional and automatically financially secure way in the interests of women. One last point: Child care should not be exclusively a matter of women, as Mrs. Kubsitzer Schmidt has said. But, of course, we know the reality. I have had a lot of discussions with young women in recent weeks, with women under 30 who have the first or second child and want to return to work consciously after a year and a half. They say: It's necessary, I want that, and I have a great job! But what prevents her from doing so? – It prevents and inhibits the absence of childcare facilities. That is why it is necessary to reach appropriate arrangements with the countries. I am already assuming that in 2000 the Minister of Finance will have a clear word to say in the context of the financial compensation, in order to show the countries and municipalities the responsibility for it much more clearly than it is now. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Gaugg: Are you finished now?]] Mrs Brinek said there was nothing to apologize for. You're right: There's nothing to apologise for! Because each and every one of you – including me – has the constant responsibility, day after day, to bear the responsibility for what interest and with what statements, with what measures you support women to live in dignity, independence and security. If you don't, you can answer that for yourself. I think we still have a lot to do. We will still often hold a debate in this House on women.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6793	Mr Graf, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you obviously want to report on business treatment. The speaking time of each club is now exhausted. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6815	I am referring to the Rules of Procedure to give a formal protest here as a Member of Parliament, in the direction - and I am putting forward the request - that, although it is foreseen that the member of the Federal Government should not exceed 20 minutes of speaking time in a urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: An application, no protest!]] Today, however, we have seen a parade example of the fact that more than one hour of speaking time has been used by the government bank. Finally, even a parliamentary use has been disregarded so much that the member of the Federal Government of the Minister for Women Prammer then, if no single club in this House has only a minute's speaking time left, speaks up. It should speak during the debate and not at the end of the debate if no longer can respond to it! I should like to ask that the President-in-Office of the Council should, in future reform of the Rules of Procedure or also in the Presidential Conference, break his mind on how such use should be handled in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6856	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Let me say a few words – perhaps we will spare ourselves further statements on business treatment. First of all, the following: A word on business treatment is not appropriate to make a protest, which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The second thing I want to say here is: You know the existing rules of procedure. According to § 19 GOG, any member of the government can speak at any time in the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: If the Federal Government does not comply with the rules of the game!]] I have found that Mrs Prammer has spoken to the last speaker. In the house this happens continuously. I would therefore like to say once again: This speech was in full conformity with the Rules of Procedure, not at all a question. However, I would also like to say another sentence: If there is in a Rules of Procedure the recommendation that one should hold on to 20 minutes, there is a certain margin of time – but not a double time. This is my private opinion, however, which I would like to express here. But I say again: Mrs. Mag. Prammer is in conformity with business rules and has been carried out in accordance with business regulations. I now have no more speech to speak on this subject and close the debate. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on the improvement and strengthening of families by extending the entitlement to care for all parents as a preliminary step towards the introduction of a child care check for the better compatibility of family and work. This request has been put to the vote. This has been supported by 20 Members and must therefore be carried out in this way. I would like to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I have a vote on them – they have to be thrown into the standing urn. The ballots you use are in your pults and bear the name of the deputies as well as the name "Yes", these are the greyish-colored ballots, and the name "No", which are the pink-colored ballots. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this vote can only be used for this vote. The Members are called upon to put the vote in place. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution by Dr Povysil and Comrades, 'Yes' vote, and those who vote against the motion to put 'No' vote in the mood. I ask the writer, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin with the call of Members, and she will then be replaced by Mrs Applebeck. Please, Mrs Reitsamer.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6917	The vote will end. I am now asking the responsible officials of the House to order the urns to be counted and to carry out the numeration under the supervision of the scribes. The session will be suspended for a few minutes. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 7.09 a.m. and resumed at 7.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6947	High house! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 147 votes were cast. Of these, 34 were "Yes" votes and 113 were "No". I note that the request has been rejected. According to § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be accompanied by the names of the Members, stating their voting behaviour in the Stenographical Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Flylinger, Fischl; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Höbinger-Lehrer, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Kurzmann; Lauter; Marolt, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Praxmarer, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Sevignani; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Edler; Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser; Gaal, Gazner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Gabriela, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Nisser, Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Peter, Petrovic, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Reheis, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schmidt, Schrefel, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Smolle, Stampler, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegic, plate, tichy-shrink, drink, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7125	We shall now proceed to further votes, and I would ask you to take the places. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the lack of measures taken by the Austrian Federal Government on equality and social security of women in society. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades on the improvement and strengthening of families by introducing a babysitting check. The vote was taken by 20 Members. That is why the vote is to be taken, and we shall proceed in this way. As before, we shall vote by means of a vote. I would like to refer to the statements on the previous national vote and therefore ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades to vote 'yes' and those who vote against the motion to vote 'No'. I ask Mrs Reitsamer now to start the name call again; Mrs Apfelbeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7192	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. For this purpose, the meeting is suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 7.22 a.m. and resumed at 19.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7222	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 160 votes were cast. Of these, 33 were "Yes" votes and 127 "No" votes. The request is therefore rejected. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be attached to the Stenographical Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Brauneder, the actual vote result is as follows: Votes cast: 138; of which "Yes" votes: 31, "No": 107.]] With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Flylinger, Fischl; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Höbinger-Lehrer, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Kurzmann; Marolt; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Praxmarer, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Sevignani; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser; Gaal, Gazner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Gabriela, Motter, Müller; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Peter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Reheis, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schmidt, Schrefel, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Smolle, Stampler, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7400	That concludes the voting procedure. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7421	We shall now proceed to a short debate on the request made by Mr Gaugg, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to report on Amendment No 589/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades with regard to the discharge of Austrian training establishments until the 15th century. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States Following this debate, the vote on this request for a time limit will take place. We are now going into the debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there are the following time limits: First speakers for reasons not exceeding 10 minutes; any other speaker maximum 5 minutes; Statements by members of the Federal Government or by notified State Secretary shall not exceed 10 minutes. As founder and first speaker, Mr Gaugg is now given the floor. 10 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7455	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! What the government or its members have done on the government bank today in the course of the urgent question is politically alarming. If the Rules of Procedure also intend to report during the debate, it is rather unusual if it is not just morally objectionable to speak up as a woman minister if no single political group is ever able to refer to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It seems that Mrs Prammer – as before! - nothing to improve the situation of women in society, and that in the end she wants to make a mistake, a desperate attempt to make herself felt. [[Abg. Edler: Say something about Carinthia!]] For she has once become publicly known in her professional activity: when she wanted to tear her own husband before the judge. [[Abg. Nürnberger: On the matter, Mr President. – More "For business!"- Call at SPÖ.]] This is your form of politics. The billing will take place. [[Abg. Koppler: Yes, we are interested in that too!]] As Mr Koppler calls out so loud, and other Members, especially social democrats, on the question of attracting the teaching profession is also significant: 3 096 teaching places more, 2 billion schilling consumed! This represents an investment cost of 700 000 S per capita. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true at all!]] Finally, it is unsatisfying, and above all I propose to you to make election-oriented policy. [[Abg. Edler: False numbers!]] ==References== The elections will take place in October, and in November of this year about 20,000 young people will be unemployed. This is your form of labour policy! They have currently "parked" 20 000 young people in any preparation courses to get them out of unemployment statistics. You know that 14 000 young people will be present from autumn onwards. Finally, you will achieve the improvement in the economic sector forecast by the Economic Research Institute in 1997 with a great deal of effort and effort. It is already to be questioned why this accessibility is only possible with many hundreds of millions of schilling, while at the same time showing economic development that it would have gone or gone without these millions. There was a talk about the National Action Plan for Employment, where there is more talk of apprenticeship initiatives and similar initiatives. – Except talk nothing! The Ruster decision was a panic-like reflection on a situation known at least since 1992 in Austria, because since 1992 it is known that the 15-year-olds of the birth-like years will be forced on the labour market in 1997, 1998 and 1999. But you have put the measures far too late, just as you have no access to alternative ideas. All that the government does is "excellent" – and everything that comes from the opposition, in your opinion, is objectionable and not even worth thinking about. There are desperate new careers created, which are thought to be looking into the future, and this can then be done. However, the Court's Subcommittee alone has shown what has really happened in recent days. These hundreds of millions of schillings would not have been necessary if the legal framework for the employment of apprentices had been changed in time. They have become necessary to create any Pseudo club, Pseudo club, Pseudo stock companies – and all of this under the auspices of the Federal Chancellor climate. In order for nothing to happen and thus not anyone during the activity of this association or this corporate conglomerate could at some point come to the idea that something is going wrong, an association is founded like a secret circle. This is where a certain Luke's chair priest establishes a project community. As you know, Mr. Stuhlpfärr is the apprentice of Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Koppler: Club or company?]] Mr. Stühlpfarrer is preparing a project. That always sounds good, that shows commitment; one is enthusiastic about it, a lot of money is spent on it. He is entrusted with the project to establish a professional comparison of more than 200 new professional professions between the European Community and Austrian teaching. When the members of the subcommittee are given the project study, which has been expected to bring employment initiatives or at least to show impulses in the right direction of employment, members will be told and written on two-sided papers of the European Community in 950. This was the work of Mr. Stühlpärer, who is at least the apprentice officer of Mr. Bundeskanzler and who has received tax money for this Schmarr’n 430 000 S! This was ultimately the starting point for him to receive a total of about 50 million schilling for diffuse projects. For diffuse projects, therefore, because this clumps, which had formed there – with chair priest David Mock, the press officer of the Federal Chancellor's Climate, and Jan Klima, a successful student at the Montanist University in Leoben, whom one had chosen, but did not know that he had been used as an accountant – then had millions of schilling; and the projects that we have only tested as a sample, cry out to heaven! There is a project called ROMA, a really useful measure for the employment of a minority and for integration into the labour market. That sounds good. The funding amount is 3.8 million schilling – there are five speakers who are active, five of whom are pensioners! Nothing against the pensioners, but a retired agent for action of a large bank refers to labour law. Whether he is really the best suited person to teach the participants labour law is another thing. A second speaker is a former fruit dealer. He teaches about purchase and sale. They are all working in the dark circle of Mr. Klima. So that this does not happen directly and directly with him, he gives it away to the Social Ministry. The Ministry of Social Affairs is continuing to provide labour market services, and in the end this money is back to a certain Mr. Pearce. The worst thing about it is that there are eight participants throughout this conglomerate. This is a small support from it, which shows how taxpayers' money is handled. All over again and again, Mr Klima's apprentices show up as promoters. One of these areas is called PROFESSIONET – it always sounds better when you use English expressions, hoping that a few may not know what that is – and there are 6 000 consulting hours charged for saying and writing 24 students. So when you check it, they come and say, It was not the main task to employ apprentices, but the main task was to seek projects and promotions. But that's where I wonder: What is this supposed to do in the context of apprenticeship, which this Mr. Chair President, the Federal Chancellor's apprentice, at which SPÖ Vienna is doing? – For more than 240 hours he sits at the SPÖ Wien, although of course she does not include an apprentice in addition. I wonder what was done there. When questioning this, it was to be heard as an answer: This PROFESSIONET team with the Chancellor's Officer of Chairs did not spend 350 hours in the SPÖ Centre to talk about apprenticeship studies, but the number of hours and the amount of fees were calculated according to how many listeners were present. That should make you think. This should also lead the SPÖ to think about how it deals with tax money. For it is not to be seen that the main fragments of the available funds are not used for apprenticeship employment but for the fact that the rulers go on journeys. Some projects, such as the question of Roma employment, lead the gentlemen to all parts of Europe. That's what I'm asking myself: Does this really have efficiency for eight participants? Or should we not question this because it will be called, there is a trend change on the labour market, and we have more employees? – The question is always, under which conditions. This is not the social democracy that you imagine! This is a failure of democracy and a self-service shop of first order! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The sad thing is that the ÖVP, your coalition partner, is present in these macheloikes from A to Z, at the prize of Mr Fischler and 34 diplomats. A subcommittee report will be presented, which is nothing but a few pages of paper, and Mr Klubobmann Khol will appear publicly and will say: It is time for Mr Klima, Mrs Hostasch and others to make their views known. There are allegations of the party financing of a certain Mr Steindl not to overdo in his insignificance in the Subcommittee. First of all to say publicly that there is party funding...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7563	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7579	But then to return to the SPÖ coalition, I must say: It's boring and last-class. If you had shown courage and had stood behind us, the opposition parties, then there could have been a real clarification on this matter. That would be your job, deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7609	Mr Steindl has also been mentioned on the floor. From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes per speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7639	Mr President. Dear ladies! Gentlemen! The motion for a resolution, which has now been tabled with a deadline, certainly contains important measures and important points. [[Abg. Aumayr: Assent, Mr Steindl!]] There are also a few points to be agreed with. However, some have already been implemented. [[Abg. Aumayr: Go!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I would like to take advantage of my five minutes to show you what has been done in recent years. For example, since September 1997, there have been 49 new teaching professions in the information sector, in the computer sector and in services. [[Abg. Scheibner: 17,000...!]] This has created about 6,500 new apprenticeships. You have to stress that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies! Gentlemen! If the ÖGB were to give up its rigid attitude in this respect, we could create further new teaching professions in the near future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] The instrument of setting up teaching professions is more effective, sustainable and cost-effective than teaching workshops and foundations. We have also seen this in a cost comparison in the Subcommittee. 17 500 S per month per apprentice are paid by Father State for such state-owned or state-like establishments in which teaching workshops or teaching foundations are established. If one compares the cost of an entrepreneur, one can see that one is much more favourable to the dual training system. [[Abg. Koppler: That's partly right!]] We have, in the future, also made a lot of progress with the tax reform. If the apprenticeship allowance is increased to 60 000 S per apprentice, it is also a measure that will be taken in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to remind you of the flexibility of two vocational training laws novelles. This also created the basis for teaching, so that we started flexibilization in the field of protection provisions for young people, and thus we have carried out cost reliefs, not only in the tax field, but also in health insurance and accident insurance. Now I come to the two apprentice offensives of the Federal Government. Of course, the two apprentice offensives of the Federal Government were important and essential! What we criticize is how and how the means are used. There is clear admissibility under the Federal Ministry Act: This is or would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. What did you do? – On the part of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs, one has tried to acquire certain areas of problem, and one has tried to promote a corporate union called "Euroteam" with the use of synthetic taxpayers. [[Abg. Gaugg: Then why do you agree with the report? You're just talking! Why do you agree?]] Mr Gaugg! "Euroteam" – and we know that – had a monopoly. [[Abg. Gaugg: Do you agree that Mr Fischler will be Commissioner?]] There is or was of course to question why the orders were awarded only to the company "Euroteam" or to this company union. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why did you do this? Why do you agree?]] Or the apprenticeship line: It was not clear in the subcommittee whether there was a parallel or a connection to the SPÖ hotline. [[Abg. Gaugg: But still agree!]] Many entrepreneurs have been pushed back and forth. It's just wondering how many apprentices really called at this hotline. [[Abg. Gaugg: Eben! But we agree that the ÖVP is right!]] Strange: There was also an apprenticeship festival. November 1998 in the Federal Chancellery – whether it ever created a job?! – and a lot of other things. Mr Riepl referred to this in the Subcommittee: You just tried out in the AMS area. – Try it with taxpayers' money! [[Abg. Gaugg: No one takes you seriously anymore if you criticize and agree!]] I'll come to the end. – There is a lot to do. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why do you agree?]] If you had really taken this request seriously, Mr Gaugg, you would have had the opportunity at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to submit this request in a serious manner, as you did other requests. [[Abg. Gaugg: Everything is clear, yellow!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That you are not ashamed of your word, wonder me!]] But Of course you only want to play theatre without a curtain! That's why you're concerned, but it's not about the subject matter. We shall therefore reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7880	Mr Dolinschek, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7910	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In recent years, we have repeatedly heard that youth unemployment in Austria is relatively low compared to the European Union. It is always argued that we have a lot of hidden youth unemployed in Austria who appear nowhere in statistics. The range of apprenticeships has been falling for years. Any counter-taxation that this Federal Government has launched has failed. Everyone admits to the dual training system. It is handled with keywords. It started with "Career with Teaching", then it continued with "Teacher Package", "Teachers offensive" or "Teacher Reform". The "Lehrlingshotline" has already been tailor-made today. Mr Steindl has just mentioned that there have been two such hotlines: one of the SPÖs and one of the Federal Government. No one knows how many there and how many have reported there. The numbers have been mixed, they have simply been counted together – everywhere the same to make a success. But nothing came out! The summit was then the priority programme at government level after the Rust decision that no apprentice would be present without a job, without an apprenticeship. That was said by our Federal Chancellor climate. It is certainly not the last conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of statistics to be accommodated in schools. We are currently investing summaries in institutions that do not bring quality or professional opportunities for our young people. The trend towards purely state-funded apprenticeship training facilities is certainly not the right thing. Today, apprentices are "parked" in apprentices' foundations or in professional courses. I also say that I prefer this and that it is still better than young people to stand on the streets. But that's not the yellow from the egg. With the apprenticeship offensive, a collection network for young people has been created, the Federal Minister said last time, because the economy itself was not able to do so. – The ÖVP should really do that! But it's all that seems to lead you here before the next National Council election. Don't go into the depths of it. A special programme for the promotion of additional apprenticeships in teaching workshops mainly runs in firms of the former nationalized industry. In the past, these companies have reduced and reduced the number of apprenticeships – on the other hand, they are being increased because there is an additional funding for each apprenticeship. That's all right. There 25 percent of the costs are replaced, and I have nothing against it. But it is about the same right for all training firms! Because the stupid ones are those training companies – and they are also frustrated about it today – who have always trained the same number of apprentices but do not receive the grant per training place. A number of alibi professions are now being created. 51 new apprenticeships have been created since 1997. But among them there are such as concrete prefabricators in concrete stone production; this teaching profession has taken exactly two apprentices. Or there is no apprentice at all for the concrete prefabricator in the terrazzo production. There is also no one for the profession of the hollow glass-medler in the glass painting or the hollow glass-reeder in the engraving. Also, the profession of the street keeper learn only two apprentices. But this will be a success! The "Euroteam" has already been addressed. There, this "Euroteam" is dubiously commissioned to prepare a study. Cost: 57.3 billion... [[Abg. Parnigoni: But take back the word "dubios"!]] Yes, this is very dubios! Read the newspaper reports of the last few days, Mr Parnigoni, then you will be able to understand this. [[Abg. Gaugg: It's still harmless!]] It is produced by the "Euroteam" a training folder, as it has so far been drawn up in every apprenticeship of the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Labour – in principle written off, but for this a lot of money is collected. In the PROFESSIONET project, the main objective of which was the development of professional or advisory models, concepts were created to develop advisory modules for the direction in which apprenticeship training should be designed in the future. The study consists of five cover sheets and a pile of EU documents containing 900 A4 pages. Cost point for this, subsidized by the Ministry of Social Affairs...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7952	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7968	3.7 million schilling. This is an expensive copy, ladies and gentlemen: the page around 400 S! The...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7986	The final sentence, please! The speaking time has expired!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8001	Mr President, I have come to the conclusion. – I think that this deadline proposal, which we are calling for today, is very important to finally make nails with heads in the field of apprenticeship training and to pass something on to the Austrian apprentices.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8032	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8053	Mr President. High house! Unfortunately, as this debate on the question of apprentices - "unfortunately" because of the facts, I think - has begun increasingly to reduce to the question of the performance of the Federal Chancellor or his "teaching" line, I would also like to make a few comments on what has been working on us in a committee in the last few days in this House under the heading "Euroteam". I do not even mean the details that we have debated there – Mr Steindl knows what I mean – but I mean a central mistake in this whole system. It seems that the German chancellor's efforts, as soon as possible, seem to give the public the impression that urgent action is under way, that a person's constellation, whose political close relationship is clearly assigned to the SPÖ, probably took some of the most important orders from the point of view and then carried out them in a way that spread fear and horror. On the one hand, it was pretended as if it were emergency measures, although it was at the heart of the matter that surveys were apparently to be carried out only on what measures could be taken. – Only this deception of the public is bad enough. For if the young people who are looking for teaching jobs, who are faced with the problem that there are fewer apprenticeships than potential apprentices, are preoccupied with the public, something is happening for them – hotlines, among which they are given comfort and advice in the form of a "teaching soul care" – and then it turns out that the project that was being marketed has produced a total of 24 teaching places in a considerable effort of over 5 million schilling, then it is seen that on the one hand it has been a matter of public work and on the other hand the appearance of studies that would not have been necessary in this way. – I mean, that alone is bad enough. I was also of the opinion that this is the real core during a longer period of the Committee's deliberations. This is at the heart of the matter, but at the very heart of the matter, it has finally been shown that the Committee's report, which will still be debated here in the House today, is only very peripheral. I have therefore allowed myself to write a different personal opinion, in which I put a few things to the point. That will still be to be discussed. But what remains is the assured impression that what is going on under "National Action Plan for Employment", under "Leader offensive" and so on, is primarily to present to the public something that actually does not happen – or if something happens, it happens despite and not because of these plans. When certain industries attract in the economy, this is positive for the labour market and then companies create demand for employees. But it would not have required the NAP. If new occupations develop, then it is precisely the damn duty and guilt of the social partners to agree on what is set out in order to make it suitable for apprenticeships in terms of training. But it is not necessary to buy expensive studies worth 5 or 6 million schilling, which ultimately do not have a political salary if the social partners fail to do so. Therefore, in this case – as much as I am often skeptical of the Chamber of Commerce et cetera – I believe that if you are already in the historical system, there are experts who can do something. It's not that they can't do anything, they're just sometimes a little too structurally conservative – but that's another "construction site". I don't want to do that by commissioning a company that's calling itself "Euroteam". When you see the details, you're going to be very bad. At the end of the day, I call you only one of them. All the time, a "Lukas Stuhlpärer Beratungsgesellschaft" was talking about a "Euroteam Beteiligungsverwaltungs Aktiengesellschaft". But then you have a letter in your hand, on which is at the bottom "Euroteam Vienna Gemeinnützige Forschungsprojekte GmbH". With this paper you enter the public, which gives rise to the appearance of public utility. But the contracts are made with the labour-oriented societies. If one still asks whether these companies were at all entitled to provide advisory services in the company, there is silence. In this case, Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch rightly said: I personally don't know. – I didn’t suspect that either. But no one has been interested in whether this has not been the case in the light of the commercial order. You know that we are for maximum release and maximum liberalisation.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8099	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8115	As long as this trade regulation applies and as long as we train apprentices on the ground of this trade order, it should be respected by contracting authorities! That speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8145	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8166	High house! It would, of course, be tempting to talk on the subject of "Euroteam". But I'm afraid the 5 minutes won't bring us much further; that would be a little too close. That is why, at least at the beginning, I would like to say something on the subject, because the concern that the liberals are presenting with their request is actually also a debate. It has not yet been discussed much, and I must say that this request by Mr Prinzhorn – which is no longer present in this House – contains points that we can support, for example, when it speaks of the creation of so-called land professions. Mr Peter probably knows this because he has known this work in committee for a long time. He will probably also be able to tell me that the creation of land occupations – which are known as land professions – has been on the agenda for 10, 15 years or probably 20 years. But whenever it comes to compacting this, the surface loses itself in an infinite wideness. This is also the problem that we have with what happened under the title "Leader offensive". Some of that has already been mentioned. You can say a lot about the apprenticeship offensive, but I do not think you should mix it with "Euroteam". The problem with the apprenticeship offensive is that it is almost the same as "Euroteam". I would also like to say to the apprenticeship offensive: One of the major mistakes made in the apprenticeship offensive – and there have been many mistakes, Mr Koppler – was quite certainly the fact that one has not pursued this very path and has not gone towards the field professions, but rather has Chambered a number of careers that should be as close and as small as possible, because it was not about creating actual apprenticeships and qualifications for the professional world of tomorrow, but because it was about talking cheaply from young people under the robe of apprentices. This was one of the topics, and some of the professions such as the system gastronomy, the sports article vendor and so on – that is, in the teaching profession differently – point to it indisputably. Ladies and gentlemen! If you were to take the matter seriously, you would have to ask yourself if we could find out whether we had sufficient qualifications with a little English with a professional schooling day in vocational schools, and if we could obtain sufficient qualifications with a professional schooling day, and almost nothing else. You should have these questions asked yourself. In part, these questions are addressed in Mr Prinzhorn's request, and in part they are answered completely wrongfully there, for example when he once again considers the song of the "poor" companies that cannot afford to employ apprentices. . I will read to you the figures on what was invested solely by measures in the field of apprenticeship offensive, partly entirely in addition to that in which businesses. The best example of this was a graph presented in the Subcommittee. In the years up to 1997 companies usually offered their apprenticeships in August and September, giving rise to a peak in apprenticeships. So it was every year, only in 1997 it was different: At that time, the companies offered only in September and October. This really had nothing to do with Mr. Chair-Parbar, with "Euroteam" or with the hotline – this was too late for this measure – but it had a lot to do with the offers made by the state and the AMS in these periods. We can see what amounts have been spent, how little their effect on the employment of young people and how much these temporary solutions will break up in a few years, in the sense that the young people who are "in between" will also be forced on the labour market. All of you are now in training courses. What will happen to these young people in one or two years? – Not permanent, but only temporary solutions have been created. Now, finally, another comment on the topic of Euroteam. Significant for the whole thing "Euroteam" is – this is especially the address of the Social Democrats – what Mrs Vranitzky said at the time. You will certainly be able to remember that. She has also tried to find apprentices about the apprenticeship shotline, and has been taken from the apprentice shotline to the...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8210	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8225	She was referred from the apprentice shotline to the AMS and from there again to the apprentice shotline. This is the policy you are currently performing with the youth groups in principle: to send them around the circle. That should make you think!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8255	Mr Brix is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The topic of apprentices, youth work, is a far too important issue to be used here as a polemic, to be carried out on the back of young people and to be used for party policy purposes in order to perhaps be able to score somewhere. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Just like the SPÖ!]] The question of apprentices is too important to us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 14,000 apprentices are looking for an apprenticeship!]] High house! That's why I'm saying: It is a fact that under the German Chancellor's climate and his apprentices' offensive, we have succeeded in creating more apprenticeships, and that we have succeeded in bringing more young people from the street into the teaching professions. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that there is evidence that, although there are more teaching professions, the Chamber of Commerce has not contributed to this. [[Abg. Young: Yes, 800 pages!]] It is precisely there that teaching professions have fallen, although we have introduced further support for the economic operators. [[Abg. May. Peter: What do you think of the "Euroteam"? What did "Euroteam" contribute?]] High house! I note that we have reached a reduction in the age limit in the youth protection age from 19 to 18 years. [[Abg. May. Peter: "Euroteam" is the theme!]] We have achieved the discharge of health insurance for young people. We have reached an extension of the probationary period with the apprentices. And we have raised the tax exemption from 20 000 S to 60 000 S. [[Abg. Wabl: It's only 20 o'clock, the ghost hour hasn't started yet!]] However, the Chamber of Commerce has gone down with the number of apprenticeships. That's where I ask the economy: Where is she? Why doesn't she play with me? Why does she not support us that we can have even more apprentices? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Do you know why we have more teaching places? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Ask how many students Bank Austria has!]] – Because there are simply more teaching professions. I therefore address from here the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, why he is still sparse in new teaching professions. For example, I am still waiting for professional photos such as the electric plant technician, the event and stage technician or the textile technician. In this respect, the Minister of Economic Affairs is very pleased with his regulation. If he had already come out with his regulation, we would have more apprenticeships for our young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a special gag when Member Gaugg goes out here and continues to stick to it – just as the Subcommittee does – and says: What's going on? What they do with the new models, with the modules! [[Abg. Gaugg: 50 million schilling, tolerated by Mr. Chair-Parbar and by Mr. Klima!]] This module, which criticises Mr. Gaugg, is used by Carinthian head of state Haider in Carinthia, where he makes these modules with the AMS! [[Abg. Gaugg: Yes, that's serious!]] Gaugg criticised, Haider copied – that is the policy of the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, this answer is dishonest. For believe me, ladies and gentlemen, it would be better for the liberals to have a great youth unemployment! For in the swamp of youth unemployment one can go for election and fish for votes. This is the policy of the liberals. We will not be involved in this policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: What is the man talking about?]] I say to you, even in the subcommittee, it was clear that the apprentice policy of the Chancellor and the Minister for Social Affairs was correct. They could not find with any single word that there was a mistake with the Federal Chancellor or with the Minister for Social Affairs. On the contrary, the two responsible have committed themselves to an active apprenticeship policy. Even if the hotline has been criticized here today – this too could be clarified clearly and clearly by State Secretary Wittmann. There is no connection with the Social Democrats, since nothing can be subordinated to the Social Democrats. What can be said about social democrats is that they are in favour of active youth employment, that the Social Democrats are taking up more apprenticeships and that, together with the trade union movement, they will enforce the "Action Fairness" because the "Action Fairness" also ensures that more young people have opportunities for a decent teaching profession and that there is no differentiation between workers and employees. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] That will be our goal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Believe me, the youth belongs to the future! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I don't believe anything!]] Whoever has the youth, as we social democrats do, has the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8490	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote and I would ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request to report to the Economic Committee on Amendment No 589/A (E) by Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Comrades on the discharge of Austrian training establishments for a period of 15 years. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Many of you are no longer!]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8534	We shall also proceed to the negotiation of Mr Wabl's request for the establishment of an investigation committee on the circumvention of the war material law by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State and suspicion of breach of the badge law. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8586	We're going into the short debate. The time limits, as communicated to the previous short-term debate, apply. Mr Wabl has been the first speaker and founder. Member, you will be at your disposal for a maximum of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8616	The offenders are among us, Mr. Jung! Why works Your intelligence is so bad, Mr. Jung? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: Why?]] Mr Jung, our best piece in the house, which has direct links to the intelligence and the best links to the elements of the surveillance state, has shaped a wonderful sentence in connection with Mr Fassleven's arms exports at the last meeting of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Young: Thank you!]] [[Discouragement of the liberties]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said that I have accused the Federal Minister for Defence of the State of Israel of starting last year a arms business with 2 000 machine guns from Nazi stockpiles, with the arms dealer who pretends to have bought these weapons – the weapons remain with the German army, the Minister is silent – and thus this American weapons company is already advertising on the Internet for these weapons to be equipped with Nazi insignia in all parts. [[Abg. Young: American stocks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, guess what great comment Mr. Jung has made on these weapons: Mr Wabl, what are you doing? You're here for a lift? Do you not know that this Wehrmacht sign and the Nazi sign are quite, very small? [[Abg. Boy: They're gunshots!]] You almost don't see it. [[Abg. Young: You won't even find them!]] Mr. Wabl, what are you talking about? You can hardly see it. If you're shortsighted, like him, you don't see it at all. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: This is an accusation of physical disadvantages!]] Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8727	Mr Wabl! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the accusation of physical disease does not belong to the sound of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8756	I didn't mean "short-sighted" in the sense of his visual acuity.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8775	This is open to a certain interpretation and includes this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e8790	Mr President. I am so glad that You are making the political assessment of my speeches. I'm not a doctor, and I don't know if he might be farsighted. I can't judge that at all. I meant that politically. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I meant this exclusively politically. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll stay with you, too. This is not a mistake in the classical health sense, but in the political sense. I'll be able to blame him. [[Abg. Young: Do it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Fassleven... In a political sense! [[Call the SPÖ: What is he really?]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and with the Greens.]] Mr Fassleven has no awareness whatsoever of what it means foreign policy means that neonazi groups in the USA are recruited with these weapons. Just imagine: Since 1955, these Nazi weapons have been in stock with the German army, and now that there is a general mood in Austria – one finally begins to return to the original owners of robbery, NAZI gold, art robbery, one finally begins to consider compensation payments to workers in forced camps, concentration camps – in this atmosphere, in this atmosphere, in this atmosphere, Mr. Bauer, Minister Fassleven launches his Nazi weapons on the international market. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Hurra!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this instinctlessness is so dramatic! I'm just wondering: What does the Federal Government say about this? What does the Federal Chancellor say about this? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He's silent!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the EIA is discreet here because it is its minister. I know that the FPÖ has a different understanding of these issues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, neither does the Minister of State allow us to give false information in front of this House on a regular basis. Yes, he deliberately says the untruth in this house! I don't use the word "loyal" because you would give me a call for order again. I'd like to avoid that. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol also applauds the fact that the truth is being said here. Colleague Schwarzenberger secundates and says "Two to zero" if twice the untruth is said. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Twice an owner of Wabl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol will still be revealing here today what a Garstig song the political song has become in this House. You can certainly remember the debate last time on the Fassleven investigative committee and banned arms sales. Mr. Khol here openly threatened his coalition partner: Yes, just keep going, send out your people, let our Fassl evening just criticise – then we will apply for an Omofuma Committee if you want it! That was his information, ladies and gentlemen. Political song – barley song – Khol song! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Look in the mirror!]] Member of the Khol, who always loves to stretch the Constitutional Arch and invite his friends there to a small cuddly party where the barleyy games are operated: [[Abg. Young: The Constitutional Bully!]] If you don't hurt me, I won't hurt you. If you cover up, I'll cover up, too, blind cow. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr. Khol! You might want to get to the speaker's desk here and dement the dirty business you've run in this house. Otherwise, they are always very fast and very close when it comes to playing the great opposition and morala pope here. But I'm sure you can go back to church the next time and confess everything. Then you'll be forgiven, and then you can sing your song again. Ladies and gentlemen! You should look at the minutes, including you, Mr Maitz, in order to know what Minister Fassleven is all about here and also in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. In the Court of Auditors, the Minister said: We have always handled the arms business according to the same pattern, always to licensed domestic dealers. Now we insist that there are dealers who are not registered at all. We also insist that in some arms sales cases there is no domestic dealer at all. These are clearly foreigners who have never had a seat in Austria and never had a license. You've even been in bankruptcy. As far as the last arms business with the Nazi weapons is concerned, I have to call around for days until I get some information about what kind of approval he has. Then an official tells me the following: It may be, since it is not in the trade register, the comrade from Carinthia, the Federal comrade, the Christian who deals with the blessing of Mr. Khol with Nazi weapons, that he may be authorized from the Ministry of Defence to possess war materials. Ladies and gentlemen, you can only imagine what is possible in this Republic! The Federal Minister is dealing with the War Material Act, § 5 and is looking for a arms dealer who is not a weapons dealer at all. He gives him permission. If this is a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, if it follows the principles of the rule of law, then I do not know what has been built up in this country since 1945! Ladies and gentlemen! If you continue to watch how laws are simply handled here and this House is simply misinformed – in order not to say: if you continue to see that political prestige is suffering here – and I am not saying this on every appropriate and inappropriate occasion, because I often think this is an overstretched, but probably on this question, ladies and gentlemen – then I have to ask: Who takes political responsibility for this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Have you ever read, Mr. Leiner, what is in the War Material Act under § 5? Have you read that before? - I know you always lead the Minister of the Interior. You believe, because later, after this election, we want to do a coalition with the SPÖ, we protect the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Young: After the election you are no longer here!]] Mr. Jung! It's not that cheap. [[Abg. Scheibner: How expensive is he?]] This is not so cheap, because formal – and not only formal – but also content – officials can rely on the fact that true information is provided by another ministry. Because they have doubted and are subject to the silence of office, there have obviously been officials who have had the Courage to report these arms sales to other people in order to be made public. Yeah, I'm saying that very consciously: There are officials who have civil appeals – unlike other people here in the house! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: illegally acted!]] Yes, of course, they have acted unlawfully. They also fear being caught for it. For there are such secret servants as Mr. Jung, who hold the machine gun bar for Mr. Fassl evening! - Thank you. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, there's the staff in charge!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9000	Mr Sauer has also been mentioned on the floor. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why can't Maitz speak?]] [[Abg. Boy: I understand!]] Mr President, from now on the speaking time is up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9043	Mr President. High house! I have actually expected, Mr Wabl, that you will inform us of something new in this context. I have been in the Committee on the Court of Auditors and the Committee on National Defence for some time now, and I have heard all the arguments you have now made, not for the first time, but not for the second time, but very often. They referred to some passages of the War Material Act, § 5. I would like to inform you here of the provisions of § 5 and the fact that the case-law does not at all apply in accordance with § 5. It states that the provisions cited in Article 788 of the European Economic Community Customs Code implementing Regulation – at that time the European Economic Community, today the EU – of 2. ==References====External links== It states: Any Member State may take the measures it considers necessary to safeguard its essential security interests in so far as they concern the production of weapons, ammunition and war material or trade. I believe that this passage gives the Austrian State the opportunity – and the Austrian State has used this opportunity – to bring these old stocks back to the man, because the Federal Ministry of State Defense has no financial advantages from this sale, but the only reason is that storage areas can be set free for other things. [[Abg. Wabl: Secret to Neonazis to sell by dubious arms dealer? That's the legitimation?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I hereby declare, on behalf of my group, the Austrian People's Party, that we will not agree to this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9079	Mr Scheibner is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9100	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There's still a film here; I don't know who she belongs to. Perhaps that was Mr Wabl's speech. Mr Wabl! My colleague Jung asked me to answer you. Unfortunately, he does not have the opportunity to take the floor here, and there are no actual corrections either. You claimed he was a good friend of the Minister of Defence. – Mr Jung highlights the fact that this is incorrect and that he is not a friend of the Minister for Defence. That is why we have no reason at all to cover the Minister of Defence here. [[Abg. Wabl: Should he have only bad qualities?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Löschnak.]] I would not say that, Mr Löschnak! While the friends in the Liberal Group are certainly even more conscientious and reliable than the friends in some other political groups, Mr Löschnak! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think we all know what we're talking about, right? - Good. I have to say that, as I do, I regret this with you. We have no reason, Mr Wabl, to cover the Minister. However, I would like to point out something that you yourself, of interest, have said very openly. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Friends! Friend Mentil, friend Scheibner! Friend Rosenstingl, and what the friends are called!]] Even if one assumes that the sale of stormguns – you yourself have distributed a nice graphic to various delegates – has been surrounded, it is noted that the Interior Minister, the Ministry of the Interior, who ultimately has to approve these exports, has been carried over and over again. If you already criticize this kind of arms sales, then you can be different from the view. I have to say: The whirlwind these stories now produce – if one assumes that the Ministry of Defence does not receive the proceeds from these sales at all, but the Minister of Finance, and if that is what the Minister of the Interior has to approve and does – I really have to give the Minister of Defence the good advice to scrap this material and not sell it in the future. It's not for that. But if you criticize this now, you have to criticize everyone. Then we really have to involve all those involved in this investigation committee, not only the Minister of Defence, but also the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance, who ultimately profits from it. [[Abg. Grabner: Scheibner, too?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Federal Chancellor!]] But apparently you won't get any more information from the interior area if you include this resort, colleague Parnigoni. Mr Wabl has admitted that he has received the information that has led to these initiatives from the interior. Mr Wabl! Of the fact that the Minister of the Interior has approved the sale of "Kürassier" hunting tanks by the company Steyr to Botswana, nothing can be found in these demands for the setting up of investigation committees. So that's probably all right. But when ancient stormguns are sold 58, this is the occasion for major discussions. But one thing – I am now distinguishing, and in this I am right, Mr Wabl – cannot be in the sense of a sales policy of the Federal Government, namely that these Ural-Nazi weapons, as Mr Wabl called them, can be read from Austrian stocks on the Internet that they are offered for sale by arms dealers in America. In this respect, I agree with the colleague, with the exception: That must be suppressed. If you don't need these stocks and you don't want to store them anymore, you have to destroy them. In this sense, I would have expected the Minister of Defence to comment on these accusations and to say whether the weapons offered were really from the army's stocks and, if so, how they could come about. For there is a clear obligation that they be demilitarized, cut and rendered unusable. This should not have happened in this case. [[Abg. Wabl: Then it's no more war material!]] I hope that the Minister for Defence – we will have a few debates with him next week – will at least comment on this one point that is really in need of information. Until then, we will give the Minister time and at least do not agree with Mr Wabl's request today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9201	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl raised serious accusations against the Minister of Defence. He is not only Member Wabl, but he is also the chairman of the Court of Auditors Committee. I believe that this should be taken seriously. I think the federal army is in a situation that is difficult enough: Assistant missions, disaster attacks, foreign operations, no political requirement, budget under-doing. I don't know why the Federal Minister is still doing business with the arms sales. What are we talking about? We're talking about 40 000 old storm guns, 1,000 storm guns, 2,000 old machine guns. What's the shit? Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, there is a war material law in Austria. Whether that's smart or not, I'm not investigating here. But this war material law must be observed. I think it unbearable for Federal Minister Fassleven – obviously deliberately, when colleagues Wabl are followed – to export arms from Austria beyond this war material law, which, because they were not made inappropriable, appear as weapons of war somewhere in any crisis spots of this world. Dear colleague Sauer! It is not only about freeing the storage areas, it is also about keeping the legal basis in Austria. That's the base we're talking about today. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Not only is the Ministry of Defence involved – that is what Mr Scheibner is right about – but of course it is also about the Ministry of the Interior. Anyone who knows the whole sequence of the war material law knows that ultimately the entire federal government is responsible for it. I believe that these things are clarified. There are two possibilities for Minister Fassleven. The one is that he confirms Mr Wabl's accusations – then he would have to withdraw – or he would not confirm Mr Wabl's accusations, then he must ask his group to set up a committee of inquiry here in Parliament, where these committees of inquiry have their place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order to clarify this unpleasant matter, which is not about money, but about inadequacy. Or more? I don't know. The Committee of Inquiry should clarify this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9280	Finally, Mrs Petrovic is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9301	Mr President. High house! This argument, the Minister of Defense must create a little space and somehow remove the stockpiles, is really "great" as an argument in a neutral country with a humanitarian tradition, from which initiatives against landmines and humanitarian aid projects have taken place on many of the earth's crisis spots. You only had to clean up a little of the camps. [[Abg. Young: Final sale!]] – Imagine that the same argument might come from a pharmacy that says: We have to get rid of the old drugs and give them cheaply to drug markets or something else. Or a explosive manufacturer would say: We've got a new explosive, and we're putting the old one in the supermarket now, maybe someone needs it. Or toxins. On the argument that we do not know what happened to these weapons: What do you think old and used weapons are likely to get to? – After Liechtenstein or in similar countries or rather to the crisis spots of this earth? It is quite plausible, in my view, that the weapons will find some way, a dubious way to reach the bloodiest crisis of this earth. We have a Minister of Defence who says that he has not known anything again. We have an ÖVP group that does everything to distort the laws somehow and to do so at all beyond the legitimate possibilities. Because the text of the laws is quite clear. But you're pretending you're doing wrong to a poor Minister of Defense. I would remind the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy of this once again: Stormguns for Romania, Botswana and Swiss and American companies, without the end consumer being assured. We know that they have been partially reduced to the European and non-European crisis spots. Then: Tanks to Botswana, Morocco and Bolivia. – I find that very unpleasant. In one case, there is even a negative opinion from the Foreign Office, but that has not touched the Minister for Defence. And now, Nazi machine guns with a small, a little poorly visible mark for the American neonazis. You'll see exactly what's on it and where it comes from. I really don't know where to go. Is it really the one sentence, called by Mr Khol several times, clearly acceptable over the bank series: If you continue to criticize, you'll get an Omofuma Committee!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is it really the case that you are now saying: Unfortunately, we must continue to note the transport of arms to Romania, Botswana and Morocco and the machine guns for the American neo-Nazis in some way.Unknown term type: "%s".? Is that really the case? I can also remember social-democratic resistance fighters who went through the schools and said: Never again! For me, this was very, very urgent. Is it true that this tradition does not count any more when a Minister of Defence comes to the Bredouille and threatens the coalition brah via his clubman? – I think that if values and values were forgotten so quickly, then these values would seem to have been too little anchored and too little credibility in order to develop real effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen! Next week there will be the last way to bring light to this Causae. I think that even if this threat, which I consider to be enormous in terms of democracy policy – this area of control – stands in the room, the weight of the materials in both cases is such that one should not stand in the way of an investigation. I ask you to: In your own circle, discuss again whether this legislative period should really end with the sale of Nazi machine guns to Neonazis!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9337	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote, and I would ask you to take the places for this purpose and to postpone the talks with the staff at a later date. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Wabl's request for an investigation committee. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9376	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Mag. Stoisits on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on the review of the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for Domestic Affairs in connection with the death of Marcus Omofuma. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9448	We are entering the short debate. The time limits shall apply as communicated to the first short-term debates. Mr Kier, the first speaker, has the floor. Member, you will be at your disposal for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9472	Mr President. High house! If something tragic happens and if a political scandal occurs, then these things are always in danger of being forgotten for a short time or a long time, so to speak, the time is over and everyone is happy that they have finally eaten it out. This is one of the main reasons why Mr Stoisits and I considered it necessary to have a request to set up a committee of inquiry in accordance with § 33 para. 1 GOG to clarify the political responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for all the incidents known to you here in the House. We are particularly animated by the fact that we only had to become a witness these days, with which non-chalance is passed, that a police-internal scandal of November 1998, namely the transfer of confidential data against pay, has unfortunately repeated itself in July; unfortunately, this time, with the inclusion of EDOK officials, which is particularly remarkable, because it is a part of the security executive that can be suspected of increasing qualifications. It's going to pass over again. The right-free area, as the Director-General for Public Security Sika sometimes calls it, seems to be commonplace. It was also the right-wing space – that was justified – that the serious human rights violations that resulted in the death of a migrant, ultimately remained unanswered in the field of the consequences in political terms. For no one can tell me that in the case of a security executive whose chief of all police officers, namely the Director-General for Public Security, can announce on television: If it is not explicitly provided for in the law, then there is a legal space!, then the only thing against it – the case of Omufoma – is only the human rights convention. If a minister does not respond if he does not have a position and is still covered by his Federal Chancellor, then this must be examined politically. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: But this is your opinion!]] Whoever does not understand that this is to be investigated, who then goes back and says that it is about making the security executive bad here, insulting the police and not wanting anything that is the rule of law, I say to him: If you want the rule of law and wish for an effective security executive, you must also wish for such a state which is bound to the rule of law. For a decommissioned executive, for which the law has no meaning, for which procedural standards are indifferent and for which the human rights convention of non-law is – Director-General Sika – such an executive would be a problem. It is only then a problem and only for so long a problem, as long as the cases occur are not taken up and as long as precisely this philosophy is covered politically from the point of view of the department. Or do you think that a simple security executive officer thinks that he knows very well that it is not allowed to violate human rights or not to comply with the law? – If he does not cover himself up through his chain of command, then he avoids – if he does not have other, perhaps human motives for doing so – letting an uncounted witness die in his presence and through his treatment. The fact that this is not supposed to be politically relevant must be explained to me by anyone. I'm afraid there's going to be another debate in which we'll be told again: Yes, if anyone wants to know that, he's an enemy to the fight against crime, he's a friend of organized crime, he's a friend of tow bands. – Let me tell you once again: Towing unbeing is a crime, organized crime is a danger potential! But I can only get in control of such dangers if I myself do not violate the rule of law that I am prepared to protect. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Only then do I have the moral legitimacy! It is now so – that is tragic enough – that the wrong-doer has a greater chance of success because he has the fifth ash in his sleeve. But I don't want any police acting like a bad player! Then I ask myself: So why don't we keep the rules if we don't expect them from our police? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: powerless!]] Of course, you are slower than a trickier and no law-based criminal, which is necessarily so. But I must be careful not to criminalise myself by doing the same as the ones I want to fight. Or do you think, for example, that the death penalty would be justified because, unfortunately, this word still exists? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Don't ask!]] That's a similar fork. Do you understand what I mean? I have no claim to do what I accuse the other. I'm necessarily slower. It may be that some people do not see this – perhaps because it is not popular either, because it is sometimes, in some case, the crime gives a false advantage because it cannot be realized what high police officers sometimes demand, namely that the police be in front of the perpetrator at the crime scene. I said to my discussion-visavis in the discussion at that time – I don't call it the name because this doesn't matter here –: Do you think I'll let the police officers go into my apartment so that they'll definitely, even if I'm not present, be in front of the culprit at the crime scene if anyone wants to break in? I may have my locks supervised from time to time, but I don't want the police to live with me, just so she's in front of the culprit at the crime scene. It is precisely these questions that have to be examined in their political dimension, which is inevitable in this case. Because believe me: If Marcus Omofuma hadn't died, it would have succeeded again in concealing, concealing, deceiving, and acting as if nothing had been. And the victim would suddenly have been a perpetrator because he was accused of maliciously slandering police officers. A dead man can't slander. He's a dumb witness. That is why the Minister of the Interior should also be interested in clarifying what was really happening at the time by means of a complete investigation. To shift this to the courts is cowardly. Of course, the whole thing may also have a criminal salary. It may be that the three suspected perpetrators – who by the way were never arrested in investigation and who had all the possibilities of this world to darken and agree; the statements are also recognizablely agreed statements; so almost equal statements of three persons who are heard individually have always fascinated me – are also guilty in the criminal sense. But that's another construction site, that's not the political dimension. Because no one underlies the Minister of the Interior that he is involved in a criminal case. What is to be examined here is his political responsibility. Would it have been reasonable for him not to make such a thing possible through instructions in his department? – If he had made a statement on this aspect immediately after the incident and not only spoke of a tragic case – for it is tragic every time a person dies – then he would have been politically credible. Of course, in this case you are mainly fighting for his image, and you will probably tell me soon when you are going to talk: 80 percent of the population are very happy about this. [[Abg. Parnigoni: For a short speech it was still 9 minutes!]] I do not really think that 80 percent of people are happy about the death of a human being because of having better quotas.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9573	Mr Leikam has also been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9594	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Liberal Forum's request to set up a committee of inquiry in the Omofuma case is not submitted for the first time. It has been extended by one point today, because yesterday or yesterday there was indeed an incident with the police, which is extremely unfortunate, which is not likely to occur and which nobody regrets more than the Minister of the Interior responsible for the Interior. But this is an application that actually contains quite everything that is given responsibility in the interior. It goes across the basement – I would like to say almost – of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: There are bodies in the basement!]] The proposal has, above all, a very remarkable reference in the last line, Mr Kier. It says that the application is still before the 3rd. ==References====External links== You're aware of the intention of what you're talking about. ==References== October is a very well-known date. Everyone knows what will happen in Austria this day. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The voters should know how they are!]] We must therefore quickly take a very, very tragic case, which everyone regrets - even the Socialist Group regrets the death of Mr Marcus Omofuma - in order to get a little bit of party-political small money here. [[Abg. Smolle: He has nothing to hide, supposedly!]] If you blame the Minister of the Interior here for not responding, then I must say that is simply and simply wrong. This simply does not correspond to the facts. Perhaps the death of Marcus Omofuma was crucial for much more and more rapid action. But I should like to remind you that a few weeks after this unfortunate incident by the Minister of the Interior, completely new guidelines for deportation practice have been drawn up which are now being carried out, with the explicit prohibition of using tapes. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Not published!]] But, Mr Kier, if you are criticizing the Minister of the Interior and his place of business, you should say how it should go in the future. Shouldn't we move off at all? Is that your wish? Is that your goal? – It will probably not be possible, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's an impotence!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is probably the worst dispassion at all!]] It won't be possible! As in the past, there will have to be deportations when it is necessary. To this end, everyone who is also the rule of law in Austria will have to confess, as you always use it for your group. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's not the point, you know that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Because you said when all the rules were met: Of course, if all citizens complied with the rules, we really did not need police in Austria. But there is no group in this society that complies with all the rules, and that is why we also need the police. There are, as unfortunate as it is, also in the group of executives some of the 34 000 staff who go beyond the border and do something they – I would like to put it this way – are not allowed to do; 34 000 officials! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Including Sika! "Legal space"!]] But there was this data transfer in November of the previous year – and I come to the second point you mentioned here today – and there has now been a similar case two days ago. Only, Deputies Kier: Why has this second case now come to the public? – Because since November 1998 the interior resort has continuously checked all those who have access to this data according to a random principle. That's about 30,000 officials in the interior. Since then – since this incident – it has been tightened up. Service supervision has been strengthened. This is all the more controlled so that such things can no longer happen. It was precisely because of this increased control – because the Minister of the Interior responded – that it was also possible to reveal this case. So to say here that nothing has happened is simply and simply wrong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will not give our consent to the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9735	Mr Van der Bellen also spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9756	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ten weeks may have passed since, as Mr Leikam expresses himself, this unfortunate incident has happened, which, in the opinion of lawyers, will have much more similarity with torture or murder than with a sad incident. [[Abg. Leikam: You should leave that to the court!]] [[Abg. Haller: The presumption of innocence must also apply to officials!]] This is not about 30 000 officials from the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Collegue. It's about the head of the Ministry of the Interior. It is about the political responsibility of the leaders of this Ministry of the Interior. And in these ten weeks, which have now passed, these tips have done nothing but darkened, obscured, arranged, and started distraction maneuvers. That's the real scandal! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a gruesome submission, Professor, who is not worthy of you!]] A lawyer said on Austrian television that in another case – if this were a civil trial and if it was a company that would have done nothing but that – all parties involved in the investigation would be in detention. In this case, of course not! The head of the Ministry of Interior... [[Abg. Parnigoni: That is not worthy of you!]] Mr President, I am not going to let you tell me what is worthy of me or not. Perhaps it is worth noting that the head of the Ministry of the Interior seems to be unknown to the constitutional right. And if they already know, they ignore it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: These are the most gruesome precepts!]] You may not know that the Convention on Human Rights is part of the Austrian Constitution. And if they do, they ignore it. Perhaps one could also expect the head of the Ministry of the Interior to know judgments of Austrian courts. I would remind you of the judgment in Graz, in which it was expressly forbidden to do so. No, the heads of the Ministry of the Interior don't know that! Or if they know it, they ignore it. Don't you think that's a need for information? It is appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, in particular from SPÖ, if the Minister of the Interior does not know the address of the Omofuma family – he says himself – but feels like writing – it is of a kind that I do not want to qualify more closely, we call it "enmity letter" – to the lawyer of the Omofuma family, the lawyer Dr. Zanger; the same Minister of the Interior, who might well know that previous talks have taken place about whether the family needs police protection or not. Our good secret police, state police, plain police don't know where the Omofuma family is staying where the relatives are staying? – That’s really... I'll leave you to judge what that is. For me, "only" is a tasteless character. But with the implicit approval of the ÖVP, you refuse to be informed by a parliamentary committee of inquiry by the head of the Ministry of the Interior – I don't care at any time, with what time I'm ready for 3. October – this is a political scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9851	Finally, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9872	Ladies and gentlemen! It is really far away from me to turn away from the Minister for the Interior. It is also far away from me to turn away from him a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Oillingers: On this question already!]] But in this case, ladies and gentlemen, of the Liberals and the Greens, it is really a question of the courts to check whether these three officials have acted negligently or whether they can be accused of any other kind of indebtedness – intentional and so forth. It is not a political responsibility that can be placed at the expense of these officials. [[Abg. Smolle: We want to investigate the actions of the Minister of the Interior!]] Mr Van der Bellen! I would also like to tell you because you complain that the three officials are not in detention. In many other cases, which have already been discussed here, you were the very first to motulate about the fact that in Austria the detention of the investigation is too fast and far too lightly imposed. Now suddenly call after the arrest, although the reasons for this are not available. For there is no danger of escape, there is no danger of crime because the officials have been put out of service. You can't do that anymore. [[Abg. Smolle: There was a risk of eclipse lying on the hand! There was a record of the officials lying on hand! That was obvious!]] They always demand strict binding on the law, which is also right. But in this case, because he's just fit into your concept, you want all the laws overboard to be thrown and the officials are simply being arrested. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know exactly what you intend to do. They really want to use the death of Omofuma – your request also makes it clear – to achieve a different orientation in foreign policy. At the same time, they want to achieve, so to speak, that there is no more pushing, that only the vow is applied – of course! – and also that the executive no longer intervenes. [[Abg. Smolle: These are allegions, Mrs Colleague! That's not true!]] – We can read all of this from this request you have made. [[Abg. Ollinger: Was that a breakthrough?]] If you deny the Minister that he does not respect human rights, you must remember how the Minister first responded. Secondly, it was... [[Abg. Smolle: Schlögl deserves a better defense!]] Please, the first consequence was that, with the Security Police Act, he introduced the Human Rights Advisory Council to advise him. The Minister will meet you everywhere. The charitative organizations are going into the push-in prisons and they are going to advise the prisoners, and the Human Rights Advisory Council is going to do another thing about it now, as has been said. You really cannot complain that human rights are not being respected! [[Abg. Smolle: You were not observed!]] In my opinion, aim With your permanent application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, you clearly only have the effect of putting aside or amending the existing laws of foreigners which have so far worked half-time. This intention is in all cases reprehensible. We will not agree to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e9993	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We are voting now, and I ask you to take the seats. We shall come to the vote on the request by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Mag. Stoisits on the establishment of an investigative committee. [[Abg. Smolle: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) This is called the left hand scratched on the right ear, Mrs. Colleague!]] In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e10037	We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Partik-Pablé concerning the trend change in the implementation of the Foreign and Asylum Act, a period of time until the 15. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request to the National Defence Committee for the report on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution 756/A (E) concerning tank package for a period of 14 months. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – It is only a minority for this request. He's rejected it. We shall also vote on the request to the National Defence Committee to report on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution 953/A (E) on the abolition of the re-purchasing of prisoners until 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – It is done by the minority. Rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the request, the National Defence Committee to report on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution 671/A concerning a federal law amending the German Wehrgesetz 1990, a period of time until 14. In July 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – It is done by the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00178_d7e10098	I am still announcing that in today's sitting the self-employed applications were tabled in 1174/A to 1177/A. Questions 6543/J to 6563/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council for Tuesday, 13. It will be convened in writing on July 1999, 9 a.m. This meeting is closed.
